ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber. The speaking time shall be four minutes per group. I would ask Members to do it in two, preferably: a question and possibly a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I requested this debate eight months ago. We then came from an unprecedented war summer: Ebola in West Africa, the MH17 in Ukraine, the advance of ISIS, but also 50 days of conflict in Israel and Gaza. The operation Protective Edge had a custom that we might call classic: the kidnapping of three Israeli young people, followed by reprisals of Israel, followed by rockets from Gaza, followed by an Israeli operation that defies all description: 4,500 missiles on Israel, 5,000 targets attacked by the Israeli army in Gaza, an Israeli military doctrine that took damage to civilians and property for granted instead of going to extremes to prevent it. The result: over 2,000 Gazans killed, one quarter of them, so 500 children. 66 Israelis were also killed. The open-air prison that is Gaza has been shot. A 6-year-old child in Gaza has been through three wars at that age. D66 asked attention to three issues in the aftermath of the conflict. 1. An independent investigation into possible war crimes. 2. Reconstruction of Gaza with a plan not to fall into the classic cycle of bombing, paying, building, bombing, paying, building. 3. A new agenda for the peace process. I'll start that investigation. The UN came up with an investigation mission, but Israel didn't want to cooperate with it. The U.N. team didn't enter the country at first. Is that why there's no report? Isn't it true that that report would be there March this year? The reconstruction process is simply dramatic. At a conference in Cairo in October last year, the Netherlands presented a package of €50 million, including €12 million for reconstruction. A total of 5.5 billion was promised, including 2.7 billion for reconstruction. Former Minister Timmermans promised to work on the root cause of this conflict: the blockade. But none of this. The Netherlands has simply accepted this blockade and is trying to work around it. The UN stopped building in February. Oxfam argued that at this rate it would take 100 years for the reconstruction to be completed. In March this year, no house had been rebuilt. How much of the promised money has been deposited? Is it true that in February it was only EUR 125 million? Is it true that only a few percent of the construction equipment is present? How does Israel contribute to the reconstruction process? The only way to prevent us from experiencing this every two or three years is a lasting peace agreement with the 1967 borders as a basis, a realistic solution for the refugees, a shared Jerusalem. The world has been trying to achieve this for decades: Camp David in 1978, Oslo in 1993, Geneva in 2003 to the recent Kerry initiative. It simply doesn't work, while the settlements are being expanded, while the credibility is faltering and the relationship between the parties deteriorates. That is why D66 wants the Netherlands to join the ever longer queue of countries that recognise Palestine. The results of the past simply cannot be the results of the future. We cannot continue to muddle in this conflict. Prime Minister Netanyahu said it during his campaign: there will be no two-state solution. He said it out loud and the deeds of his cabinets speak volumes. Almost the Israeli government had introduced apartheid buses. The Netherlands stands by and looks at it. Now is the time to say: we recognise Palestine. Last year, this Minister said that we want to recognise Palestine at a strategic moment. D66 says to him: do it now, for peace and for the right of a people to determine their own destiny.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u3	Madam President. As far as I am concerned, this debate focuses on the Gaza war last year. Then Israeli violence killed more than 2,000 Palestinians, mainly civilians. During the war and shortly after, there were reports from human rights organisations about war crimes committed in that fight. This applies to rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip by the armed groups there, but this is particularly true of the Israeli army which, on a large scale, ignored international law. Recently, this image was confirmed by a UN investigation into Israeli attacks at United Nations schools, where Palestinian citizens were trying to hide. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is right to speak of great shame. In addition, there are the testimonies of Israeli soldiers published earlier this month by NGO Breaking the Silence. This shows that, despite the fine words of the Israeli army about measures to prevent civilian casualties, the reality was quite different. The testimonies give the impression of arbitrary, deliberate destruction of Palestinian citizens' homes and excessive use of ammunition. Can the Minister respond to both the UN report and the military testimonies? Does the Minister agree with me that war crimes have been committed on a large scale? Is there a call from the European Union for criminal prosecution? Has anyone been convicted yet? Or is impunity the norm again? The destruction of Gaza by the war is extensive. It is estimated that it will take decades to rebuild the thousands of destroyed houses. It is also of the utmost importance that humanitarian aid can enter the area. Last month, however, a report by dozens of aid organisations said that reconstruction has barely begun. The aid promised at a donor conference does not reach the area. Can the Minister indicate how he is endeavouring to obtain the aid that has been promised to Gaza? How is Israel urged to end the blockade against Gaza? Finally, how does the Minister look at the attitude of neighbouring Egypt, which is also not cooperating with a view to reconstruction in Gaza? So much for Gaza itself. There is positive news in the area of labelling. I understand that the Netherlands and some fifteen other Member States of the European Union want products from illegal settlements not to be sold with the label "made in Israel'. This is an elaboration of Europe's standing policy and the Central Food Trade Agency is also asking for it. Can the Minister tell us when we can expect this to become reality? Can the Minister also indicate whether he believes that imports of products from settlements are in breach of the OECD guidelines for companies? Can the Minister further state whether fair labelling of products from other occupied territories, such as Western Sahara, is also on the agenda? Then I come to the peace process, or indeed the lack of it. Since the failure of the last round of talks last year, led by the US Secretary of State Kerry, it has become silent. I fear we must assume that this will not change for the time being. I am referring to the new government in Israel. Not for nothing, and rightly so, the previous speaker referred to the current Prime Minister Netanyahu's promise that there will be no Palestinian State. What is the Dutch response to that? My next comment concerns cooperation forums with Israel and Palestine. During an earlier debate on this subject, the fora were explicitly linked to the negotiations. The minister's predecessor stated that the failure of the peace process will have consequences for the relations of the Netherlands and for the way in which the fora are completed. That failure is now a fact. What are the consequences? I conclude with the position of Palestinian children in Israeli captivity. The Israeli authorities, despite increasing international criticism and earlier commitments, have not made any substantial changes in recent years. Israel ratified the International Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1991, but continues to violate it. That needs to change. The Dutch coalition for Palestinian children in Israeli captivity therefore states that the Dutch government must make consequences for Israel's failure to comply with international agreements. Can the Minister respond to this and, above all, tell us what he is going to do now that there are no results?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes it has to be eight months before we talk about the situation in Israel again, at least in plenary. There was plenty of reason to talk about Israel and Gaza. In connection with the ongoing missile fire from Gaza, the operation Protective Edge has been initiated. The Christian Union also deeply regrets the 2,000 victims there. At the same time, we are now faced with the question of how this cycle of building, bombing and paying can be broken. We have also been asked to contribute to the reconstruction of Gaza. I would ask the Minister, together with his EU colleagues in the Middle East partners, who had promised mainly those 5 billion in reconstruction funds for Gaza, to insist that they actually transfer the funds. I would also like to ask the Minister how the Netherlands will prevent us from contributing 12 million to reconstruction, which will be held by Hamas. The Minister himself writes in his letter that we must prevent Hamas and the other militias from buying weapons again and building tunnels again. How does the Minister intend to prevent our money from being used for this purpose? We have spoken several times in the Chamber about payments to Palestinian terrorists in Israeli prisons. The Court has repeatedly called, inter alia, through four motions, for the Minister to discuss this at EU level and in bilateral contacts with the Palestinian Authority. I read that the Palestinian Authority no longer pays those funds, but leaves that to the PLO. I would ask for a statement of principle from the Minister. Does he find it a perverse incentive, as does the Christian Union, that these payments are still being paid out, especially when it comes to the level: the more victims have been made, the higher the bonus? I should like to hear a statement of principle on this matter from the Minister. What is the Minister going to do to denounce this again both at EU level and directly at the Palestinian Authority? I'm coming to the pensions. We have all read in the media that a 90-year-old lady who went to live with her son on the Westbank is now cut by 35% on her AOW. I understand this might be reversed. Can the Minister make it clear that there is no reduction in the AOW benefit of the Holocaust survivors? I understand that this is a 1984 treaty. Until now, this has never led to major problems with supervision. This afternoon I called the SVB myself. I would like to hear from this Minister today that the new directive, which will enter into force on 1 January 2015, will be withdrawn, not only for the Holocaust survivors, but also for the people born after 1945. I would like to get a response to this point. With regard to labelling, which Mr Van Bommel also mentioned, I must express my disappointment in this minister. The EU Directive is there and is being implemented. You can use the codes to find out where the products come from. The products from Westbank are not eligible for EU preference. Why is this proposal being taken out of the fridge again? I'm asking the VVD to do the same. Why does the VVD allow this? I thought we had a good deal of agreement on that. My last point concerns the conciliation amendment. Can the Minister explain the state of implementation of that amendment? Finally, I agree with Van Bommel on Palestinian children in Israeli prisons. UNICEF has given an update. It is clear that there are problems with children in the first 48 hours in particular. I am also asking about the Palestinian children in Palestinian prisons, because UNICEF did not investigate them. Is the Minister prepared to ask UNICEF for the same investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. Since Israel withdrew from Gaza in 2005, terrorists have fired over 11,000 missiles from that area on Israeli civilians. So these are over 11,000 terrorist attacks and over 11,000 war crimes. For Israeli citizens, this is the horror and everyday reality. It is the daily reality of life in a country whose entire population is permanently on the death list of Islamic terrorists. The right of Israel to defend itself against this must not be seen as a kind of favor. It is simply the duty of the Israeli State to protect its citizens from bloodthirsty jihadists who want to wipe the country off the map. The Hamas terrorists also have the blood of Palestinian civilian victims on their hands. That is not only because they forced Israel to intervene by terrorising Israeli citizens with a constant rocket rain, but also because they took the Palestinian people hostage as a human shield.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u6	When I listen to Mr De Roon's speech in this way, I wonder what he thinks of the statement made by one of the new ministers on the Netanyahu government team. He says all Palestinians are beasts. How does Mr De Roon feel about that? Does he distance himself from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u7	People are not animals. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u8	Good. That is a first step in the right direction. Let us look at the conflict over the past summer and what has happened in recent years in Israel and Palestine. I give Mr De Roon the figures. 2.220 Palestinians died last summer, compared to 71 Israelis. What reality does Mr De Roon live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u9	I live in a reality in which these Palestinian citizens have been the victims of the wrong, disastrous, bloodthirsty policies of their own leaders, of the Hamas clique and of all the other terrorists in charge in Gaza. They wage a terrorist war against Israel and therefore force Israel to take appropriate action against it. The fact that many Palestinian victims are affected is solely due to their own leaders. The leadership of the Palestinians has been a disaster for the Palestinian people since 1949.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u10	The PVV's one-sided look here is going wrong. The point here is that there are more deaths on the Palestinian side. I understand that Mr De Roon is willing to stand up for the Israeli side, but he really lives in a very different reality than the real reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u11	I think that Mr Kuzu lives in a different reality, namely a reality in which you simply do not want to see the responsibility of the Palestinians and Palestinian leadership itself for the misery they pour and summon over their own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u12	I wanted to ask you about that. Mr De Roon is quite clear that it is the Palestinians themselves who are to blame for all this. What does he think of the recent Breaking the Silence report? It says that the Israeli doctrine was not really aimed at preventing damage to citizens and private property, but was simply taken for granted. It was a necessary evil. How does Mr De Roon view this, also given the fact that 500 children have now died?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u13	If terrorists and warriors hide in a war between the citizens and use these civilians as shields, then those terrorists and those warriors themselves are responsible for the subsequent deaths of those civilians. You can say that there are more than just those who died on the Israeli side, but that does not, of course, take away that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u14	I didn't say that. I said that 500 children died on Gazan side, for example because of an Israeli military doctrine. Mr De Roon is talking about a human shield. I'd like to be recommended for proof of that. UN schools and UN hospitals were used for weapons storage. That is totally unacceptable and that too is a war crime, but there were no Gazans in it. Those victims have therefore only been victims of Israeli operations, simply as collateral damage to their military objectives. I would like to hear a real response from Mr De Roon and not his usual propaganda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u15	The Israelis have repeatedly warned in advance which buildings would be attacked and which areas were to be evacuated, but the citizens of Gaza were forced to be there, while the terrorists' fighters were around them. This means that people are going to be victims, but this does not mean that Israeli action in this area was entirely legitimate. We all know the example that Israel has always given a "knock on the roof" on all kinds of buildings to warn: this building is going to die, get out of here! If people remain seated, whether or not forced by Hamas and so on, then they are victims of a legitimate attack on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u16	Apart from the fact that a knock on the roof is a painful euphemism for a small bomb, Mr De Roon uses the word "legitim." Whether or not something is legitimate, we are in any case going to review it in accordance with international conventions and international law. Does Mr De Roon share that assessment? In this context, how does he assess the report recently issued under the responsibility of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the highest international official we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u17	Oh, well, those reports from the U.N. You have to take them with a big grain of salt. First of all, let me give you an example: Mr Ban Ki-moon said before there was any investigation into whether there was any report from a UN commission of inquiry, that there were war crimes. What am I supposed to do with the UN? You can't take them seriously this way, can you? We also know these examples from the past, such as the research carried out under Goldstone. Mr Goldstone later said: it was based on incorrect, incomplete information; if I had to rewrite it now, the report would look very different. I can't do anything with reports like that. I only see an Israel that has been constantly attacked by the Palestinians and the people who support them since 1949. Israel simply has the right to defend itself against it, including by force. If the fight of the Palestinians is conducted in such a way that citizens are constantly in danger, it is solely the responsibility of the Palestinians themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u18	That's a long answer. That every country has the right to defend itself, I would like to give Mr De Roon. Yes, it is, but there are limits to that. These limits are set by international law. Let me repeat the question. Does Mr De Roon agree with me that you should at least check this in accordance with international law, regardless of who will do so and whether you trust that person in advance or after? Or does he think Israel has the exclusive right to assess the legitimacy of its own actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u19	Israel is a democratic rule of law with an independent judiciary. The military part of the judiciary is also independent. That does not fall under the Israel Defense Forces in the sense that they have to take orders or orders from it. They're independent. It is therefore up to Israel itself to investigate whether war crimes or international crimes have been committed. We will have to wait for the results. I have no need at all for an international investigation by a UN organisation that is constantly failing and has been constantly taken over against Israel in advance. That's not what I'm waiting for. Why don't you let Israel investigate for themselves? If there are any other points that Mr Servaes might say have not been properly examined, then we should see that at that time. Then we will be able to discuss it at that time. Now I'm not going to anticipate that. The barbarians of Hamas even used hospitals and schools as launchers and storage facilities for their weapons. That in itself was extremely evil and contrary to the law of war, but it was also vile for another reason. In fact, any Israeli action against it offered an opportunity to put Israel in a bad light and to turn international public opinion against Israel. In addition to a physical terrorist struggle, there is also a legal jihad on the Palestinian side to destroy Israel. The PVV does not support legal jihad against Israel and does not expect anything from the UN investigation into the events in Gaza. The UN is at the forefront of the anti-Israelobsession in the international world. The UN thus encourages terrorists to abuse international humanitarian law. As I said, Mr Ban Ki-moon referred to the Israeli attacks as'moral harm' even before any investigation was carried out. I would like to hear from the Minister his views on this structural abuse of international law by the Palestinians. Hamas terrorists have been hiding weapons several times in UN-run schools, which were built with Dutch money. I find it bizarre that this cabinet has promised an additional 12 million in development aid for Gaza. Abbas's cabinet also receives tens of millions of extra gifts, if it is up to the government. Furthermore, the Minister intends to step up cooperation with the Palestinian Authority in the coming years. That is an organization that still, albeit through all kinds of devious detours, sends salaries to convicted terrorists. It is an organization that indoctrinates children with hatred of Jews and glorifies terrorism. It is an organisation whose leader has recently said that the Palestinians suffering from the war in Syria can better die there than return to Gaza or Judea and Samaria. That is what the Dutch Government is working with, and that is where the Dutch taxpayer's money is going, all in an attempt to arrive at this so-called two-state solution. The international community's involvement in the Middle East peace process is fatal and harmful. It is too bizarre for words that the Palestinians have repeatedly torpedoed the negotiations if the possibility of a peace agreement was in front of their grasp. The pampering of the Palestinians by giving money, including the Dutch funding of the Palestinian Authority and of UN projects in Gaza, is precisely preventing the achievement of real results in the Middle East peace process. The pay-building-bombing cycle, about which other spokesmen spoke, is very easy to break: stop paying. Then there can be no construction and there is nothing to bomb. It's as simple as that. Neither Hamas nor the Palestinian Authority enjoys legitimacy. They do not deserve our support. That support is harmful. According to the Labour Party, as I read in the media today, the EU must have more influence on the Middle East peace process, because that influence is now zero, zero. The Labour Party, as always, wants more EU interference. The PVV believes: let us not do so, let us simply stay away from the negotiations in the Middle East peace process, because we really cannot contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u20	I would like to make it clear from what the PVV Group has said that it believes that, even under very appalling humanitarian circumstances, no aid should be provided at all. That goes a step further. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u21	Humanitarian aid only makes sense if there is also a prospect of restoration, of restoring a decent, decent, decent and normal situation. That prospect is not there as long as the Palestinians are guided by Hamas and the PLO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u22	Can I say that, according to this doctrine of the PVV, innocent civilian victims should not be helped in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u23	They may be helped, but as far as we are concerned, not by the Dutch taxpayer. Let those terrorists be financed by those rich sheiks from the golf region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr Grashoff, we're actually doing it in half. I'll give you a third, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u25	It is clear to me how the PVV determines its position in this regard. I think it's way below par.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u26	It's possible. I think it's a very good size.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u27	Did Mr Van Roon's flag go out when Netanyahu won the election, partly on the basis of his statement that there would never be a Palestinian state? If I am right, that is also the position of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u28	I don't have to put out a flag for that. The negotiations are continuing. I even read today that the Israeli government is secretly negotiating with Hamas. That's all her own business. Hopefully it will come to good solutions. I don't expect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u29	Then I would like to ask Mr De Roon what he means by 'good solutions'. He hoped for good solutions based on the negotiations as they are now being conducted. What are the PVV's view of "good solutions"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u30	A good solution to this whole situation is if the Palestinian people were to free themselves from that terrible ill-led leadership that has been sucking it out since 1949, repressed it into wars over and over and over again and incite it to terrorism. If there had been none of this, the Palestinians would have been as prosperous as the people of Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. Israel is the only democratic rule of law in the Middle East. A region further characterised by terror and barbarism. Israel is the only country in that region where everyone can live in freedom, whether Jews, Christians or Muslims. Israel stands for hope, progress and Western civilization. Unfortunately, for decades in the Netherlands, we have seen a shift from a pro-Israeli to an anti-Israeli sentiment among political parties in this Chamber, in the media and in public opinion, supported by left-wing aid clubs that campaign against the State of Israel with government subsidies. This cabinet also contributes. It provides development aid bilaterally and through the EU to Palestinian organisations that like to see the Jewish state disappear. Minister Koenders wants to label products from the West Bank. This could in practice lead to an economic boycott of Israel. Is the Minister prepared to abandon this miserable plan? The current Palestinian Unitary Government is also supported by Hamas, which is committed to the total destruction of Israel. We see the Islamist terrorist organisation Hamas re-arming and restoring the tunnels. As long as Hamas remains, peace is impossible. Fortunately, even after the elections, Israel is holding a strong Prime Minister, who knows very well how to react to terror and anti-Semitism. We call on this cabinet to stop anti-Israeli policy with regard to BDS, to stop giving development aid to the Palestinian entity which is co-supported by Hamas and to join the friendly state of Israel internationally, like Canada for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. This debate is being held in The Hague, the capital of international law, the city of peace. For more than half a century there is blood in Palestine and the international community is unable to end the tragedy and stop the injustice. Why not? That is my first question to the Minister. Do we really understand the Palestinians? Imagine, Mr President, that after 2000 years of Germanic tribes come back to claim their rights as original residents. And that we, 16 million Dutch people, can only live in a piece of Gelderland and the kissing strip of Zeeland and that in our piece Gelderland more and more Germanic settlements appear. Wouldn't we be furious? We believe that the Netherlands should now proceed with the recognition of Palestine as a state. The Minister is still waiting for a strategic moment to do so. When is that moment coming? Soon he will no longer be a minister and can join a large group of former politicians who advocate recognition of Palestine. Then, however, there's no point anymore. Let us support the Palestinians more, let us trade actively with them, let us help them set up a good education system and let us help them build airports, ports and roads in Gaza and the West Bank. Every time it's built, the Israeli army destroys it. We therefore need a UN peacekeeping mission to this area, which will prevent the Israeli army from destroying the built infrastructure in Gaza again. We need a UN force to evacuate the illegal settlements in the West Bank and enforce peace and stability in the region. How long is this conflict going to last? How long will the rich West continue to close its eyes to the violation of international law by the Netanyahu Government? How much blood is left to flow? How many schools still have to be bombed and how many children still have to be orphaned? We have no confidence whatsoever that the Netanyahu Government will take a step towards a viable two-state solution. But more importantly, what is this minister going to do? Minister, dare to think differently. Dare to be righteous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u33	Mr. Chairman. When Mr Sjoerdsma asked for this debate in September last year, the dust of the Gaza war had just descended. It was a war with sad consequences. More than 2,000 Palestinians died and more than 10,000 were injured. On the Israeli side there were 73 dead and over 500 injured. In the run-up to this war Hamas fired missiles at Israel and the terror movement kidnapped three Israeli teenagers on the West Bank until the measure for Israel was full. It was a war that took place against the background of a deadlocked peace process between Israel and the Palestinians, divisions within the Palestinian camp, the isolation of Gaza, the separation with the West Bank and rivalry between Hamas and the Palestinian Authority. Hamas, whose ambition is to take over the West Bank and destroy Israel, supported by countries such as Iran, Turkey and Qatar. Israel is a Western country, a democracy and the rule of law in an explosive region. The country has remained in the wars of 1948, 1967 and 1973 and has made of desert vegetable garden. It has a successful and innovative economy. And to indicate the international position: after the earthquake in Nepal, Israel was one of the first to be present to help people there. At the same time, Israel is occupying Palestinian territory and subjecting the Palestinian people and authorities to far-reaching restrictions. The occupation and settlement policy constitute a sta-in-the-way for a viable Palestinian state and thus also for lasting peace. With all security measures, Israel may be able to contain terrorism. That's what you hear in Israel. But the question is whether it also produces sustainable safety. The flame can just blow up, so a peace agreement is in everyone's best interest. Looking at today's situation, unfortunately, we have to note that the stalemate is complete. Negotiations under the leadership of the US Secretary of State Kerry have simply failed. And in Israel, a cabinet has taken office with parties who should not have a Palestinian state and even want to expand the settlements. In the election campaign, Prime Minister Netanyahu spoke out loud about that Palestinian state. He spoke out against it. After the election, he returned to that. Now the question is: is Israel prepared to negotiate with the Palestinians? Minister Koenders rightly states: let us judge this new Israeli government on its actions. The question is how big the will is at Netanyahu c.s. is effective. How much political room for manoeuvre does this Prime Minister have? After all, his coalition consists of five parties and relies on only 71 seats in the Knesset. Can the Minister give an appreciation of the new government's settlement policy? Our group is very concerned about this. On the Palestinian side there is great scepticism about the resumption of negotiations with the State of Israel. President Abbas pre-empts demands that are unacceptable to Israel. In doing so, he internationalises the conflict, including through the ICC and the UN Security Council. Now that the Kerry negotiations have failed, a new situation has emerged with regard to the CDA, in which the EU has a greater role to play. Last year, in the Sjoerdsma/Omtzigt motion, our group called for this European line to be followed. Minister Timmermans denied that motion at the time. The question is how this Foreign Minister intends to implement it. For High Representative Mogherini, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a priority. She's in there right now. That's quite right. The CDA is looking forward to the strategy it is developing, as well as to the EU-wide guidelines on the labelling of settlement products, which the Netherlands has also called for. Then I'll come back to Gaza. Israel had the right to defend itself, within the limits of humanitarian war law. There's a U.N. investigation going on right now. Our group takes the UN and its research extremely seriously and will assess its results on its merits. Israel's own investigation into what has happened there is also important, as is the investigation into its own actions and the prosecution of any culprits. If Israel has violated humanitarian war law, the country must be called upon to do so. At least Hamas is guilty of terrorism. Also, part of Hamas' rockets landed on its own population in Gaza. We're over six months away now. The humanitarian need in Gaza is high and Gaza is largely separate from the rest of the Palestinian territories. How can the international community speed up reconstruction without unintentionally supporting Hamas in preparing for another war? Egypt also blocks Gaza and acts hard against Hamas and the tunnels. Is it true Hamas is working on new rocket arsenals and terror tunnels? Fortunately, Israel has been allowed to trade between Gaza and the West Bank and more people have been allowed to travel from Gaza to Jerusalem. The introduction of building materials to Gaza is important and the Minister states that the UN mechanism has entered into force. The Dutch contribution with the scanner is instrumental in this respect, the Minister states. Does the scanner now function fully and properly? If that is not the case, then where is it and what must be done to resolve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u34	In June 2013, the former CDA spokesperson, Mr Omtzigt, said that the CDA felt that the Netherlands should advocate a red line on the construction of settlements at EU level. If that red line were to be exceeded, sanctions would have to be followed, such as suspending or terminating the association agreement. We're almost two years away. Does the CDA agree with me that the red line has been largely exceeded in the meantime and that it is now time for sanctions at EU level, such as the suspension or termination of the association agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u35	I understand Mr Grashoff's question. I know very well what my predecessor said on that point. This is about the distinction between existing settlements and new settlements. There is a lot of construction going on and a lot of permits are still being issued. This does not contribute to solving the problem. However, the new government has yet to take office and its actions have yet to be assessed. If, at this stage, you immediately resort to sanctions, that sounds very tough, but I do not think that this will immediately lead to a situation in which peace is getting closer and we can speak more quickly of a peace process that has started again. In the E1 areas no settlements can be built anymore. In other places, however, there are existing settlements where expansions can take place. Those are not developments that we are positive about, because they can be a sta-in-the-way for a transfer of territories. But we will follow that closely as a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u36	If I interpret the answer correctly, the CDA agrees with us that that red line has been crossed, but it should now be about assessing the actions of a new government that has just taken office. However, Mr Knops' contribution and own analysis show that the hope for a better attitude of this government is small. Does the CDA agree with me that that hope is so small that you should actually put those sanctions on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u37	I did not say in my speech that hope is less. The longer these kinds of processes generally take, the more difficult it becomes to come to a conclusion. That is clearly the issue here. At the same time, we are dealing with a democratic rule of law and a newly constituted government. In the run-up to the elections, there have indeed been strong statements, of which we also distance ourselves. It is not statements that contribute to the peace process. However, we are dealing with a democratically elected government. If you want to reach an agreement between different parties, it is appropriate to appeal to both parties for their actions, both Hamas and the Palestinians as well as Israel. Let me say, in general, that there is no word of Spanish in the words of Mr O'Donnell that the settlement policy does not contribute to a solution to the conflict, especially if it continues politically strongly and takes place in certain areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u38	I thank Mr Knops for his speech. I very much welcome the comments made on illegal settlement policy. However, I was wondering what the CDA considered to be the solution or a way of resolving this conflict, which has been going on for decades. I haven't heard enough about that. But of course I fully understand that Mr Knops does not have all the wisdom at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u39	The latter is almost always true, I would say. That is where our modesty fits in and me in particular. This is absolutely true. The security problems and issues in Israel are perfectly legitimate. You could conclude that some of the measures taken have objectively led to increased safety. But it is not the case that this has brought a peace process or a comprehensive agreement closer; unfortunately, I would almost say. In the short term you can achieve safety, but the question is whether you will achieve it in the long term. If you believe that a two-state solution is the most beckoning perspective, both sides must work towards it. That requires sacrifices from both sides. You can look back at what happened. The Gaza war may not be a good example, but I would add that you have the right to defend yourself if you are attacked. You need to get to a phase where the solution is closer. If the settlement policy creates such a situation on the ground that the agreement is farther away than ever before, then it can only be that you condemn it, just as you condemn Hamas' terrorist activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Knops also spoke about the two-state solution. How does he stand with regard to recognizing Palestine as a state? I wondered about this given the voting behaviour of the CDA group in the European Parliament and the recent statements by the Pope, who is nevertheless an important person for some of the CDA's supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u41	Certainly, as a Catholic, I would like to say to Mr Kuzu. In previous debates, which Mr Kuzu did not take part in, we took a very clear position on the recognition of the Palestinian State. We have also supported the government's line that recognition of the Palestinian State should no longer, by definition, be a conclusion to the negotiations, but that at some point there might be a possibility in the negotiation process. The most important thing is that you should do this in a European context. This is part of the European Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP). I know there are differences of opinion in this Chamber. But the United States has failed and at the moment there are no other players who can make a breakthrough. So Europe is more important than ever to find a solution to this conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u42	Mr Knops made a well-balanced speech. However, it still raises a number of questions, particularly with regard to recognition. Mr Knops says that recognition must take place at European level, but that is a national competence. So that's not going so well in Europe. I would like to remind Mr Knops that a number of Member States of the European Union have already recognised this. More than 130 states have been recognised worldwide. If Mr. Knops is looking for security and numbers, he already has. When has the moment come for Mr Knops to lose faith? He says now: a new government, new opportunities. But that is, of course, a triad that, as since the year 1900 and as much as it is, fill the number in: again a new government, again new opportunities. Does Mr Knops believe that Prime Minister Netanyahu is actually going to negotiate honestly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u43	That's almost a question of conscience. A new government, new opportunities: these are not the terms I used, but they are, of course. If you reject this statement made by Netanyahu on the eve of the elections, you could say that the positive feeling that you might still have for the statements has diminished. But that doesn't make it a sta-in-the-way for a peace agreement. Moreover, I am fully aware of all the countries that have recognised the State of Palestine. In this context, it seems to me very relevant that Europe should play the role it could play. Those signals reach me, too. Europe has not played that role in recent years. Let us be honest: the United States took the lead. There was a quartet, but de facto the United States led in it. I believe that the new High Representative, who is now in Israel, could play an important role in this. I also challenged the Minister to respond to that. Mr Sjoerdsma is also quite right that it is a national responsibility to accept recognition. But the moment you do that, you can agree on a European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u44	Let me try to stimulate Mr Knops in another way. He says that recognition does not have to be the end of negotiations; it can also take place at a strategic moment. What would Mr Knops be a strategic moment? What conditions would he require for recognition? I ask this because he is very concerned about the construction of settlements. At least 22,000 homes have been built in the time since the previous spokesperson's ruling. How long does Mr Knops wish to wait and what are his conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u45	I understand the question, but if I am going to impose conditions here as a representative of one of the political groups and at the same time send the High Commissioner to determine that moment on behalf of Europe, I will do something I should not do. It is true what Mr Sjoerdsma says: many settlements have been built. By the way, not all settlements have been licensed and not all have been built in places where you could say that they cause additional damage. Sometimes there is built in places where settlements have already been and they are in principle not a sta-in-the-way for a solution. But also in places where that is the case, there is built. I am not going to list a number of conditions that must be met in order to obtain recognition. Once you say that you have faith in such a High Commissioner who could play a role in this, I also base it on sounds that I receive from Israel and from the Palestinian side itself, then you must also give him space, also because of the lack of an alternative. It is then not appropriate to draw up a number of conditions at this time, however tempting that may be, and then almost binary whether or not you should proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u46	I was one of the previous questions asked to Mr Knops that he replied that Israel's construction in Judea and Samaria should be condemned as much as Hamas' terrorism. I am shocked that Mr Knops equates terrorist acts with Israel's activities in Judea and Samaria. As far as I am concerned, building these areas, developing them and developing economic activities is the way to peace. On the contrary, we should give Israel ample opportunity to do so. The Palestinians who sit there and disagree can go to the Palestinian state if they want to. All they have to do is cross the Jordan, go into Jordan, and they're in the Palestinian state. Then they're where they want to be. Let Judea and Samaria develop through Israel. That is what I think and what I would like to hear from Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u47	I fear that I am not going to please Mr De Roon with my answer, because I have a fundamentally different view of a future state of Palestine. I'll come back to the equation I made. It is a good thing that Mr Van Roon asked the question, because then I can clarify it. There is a difference between terrorist acts where people are killed and built. The only agreement is that its effect does not lead to a closer agreement. That is what our group is very keen for. I understand that the PVV Group has a slightly different view on this. That may be true, but that at least corrects the ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u48	I fear that the agreement that Mr Knops is still hoping for will never come. For 30 or 40 years, it has been shown that the agreement has been repeatedly evaded by the Palestinian Authority. I think it's the only right way to bring about economic prosperity for Judea and Samaria. Any Palestinian who wishes to join can do so. I think Mr Knops has also been to companies in Israel. There you can see that there are also many Palestinians working, both in Israel itself, as well as in Judea and Samaria. They like to work there, because then things are better with them and their families than they are when they stick to something that a Palestinian state should imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u49	I would nevertheless like to combat that, because I have also seen that the position in those areas referred to by Mr De Roon is not being exploited, although it is potentially extremely economical for both Palestinians and Israelis. After all, there is an uneven playing field. The same rights do not apply to the people who live there. The rights depend on whether one is Palestinian or Israeli. I believe that there are absolute opportunities to develop things to the benefit of both sides. However, I disagree substantially with Mr De Roon on the final perspective, but this may be the case in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u50	I give the floor to Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks; he has been back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr. Chairman. In the summer of 2014, the military operation Protective Edge, or an all-destructive war in Gaza, cost the lives of more than 2,000 people in that area, including more than 1,500 civilian casualties. Thousands of Israelis also died. The action of the Israeli army has been strongly criticised in several reports, including Human Rights Watch. Today we are discussing the situation in Gaza after that battle. That situation is pathetic. Tens of thousands of houses have still been destroyed and hardly anything is being built. 100,000 people are homeless and more than 70% of the population depend on humanitarian aid. So this reconstruction is hardly a matter for discussion. In the meantime, the peace process has stopped. Since 14 May, Israel has had a new government, with parties that do not seem to be working for real peace. In his election campaign Prime Minister Netanyahu said it: under his leadership, no Palestinian state would be realized. Then he backed back a little bit, but the moment was of course not bad. In other words, there won't be a Palestinian state like it hasn't been there for years. Open racist statements about the high election turnout among Arab Israelis and today's incident about the possible exclusion of Palestinians in public transport actually complete the picture. There is a government in Israel, now more than ever, that doesn't want to. After his speech, therefore, I can only point out to Mr Knops that, however realistic or kind it is to judge a new government on its actions, the chances of achieving anything are nil. In his letter, the Minister also states that he is going to judge the government on its actions. I would like to say, don't take too much time. The Netherlands has been rejecting the settlement policy for years, but it continues. The Netherlands has been calling for a two-state solution for years, but it is not getting any closer. Judging this government from its actions is a wait-and-see attitude that really doesn't work anymore. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the time of sitting back and waiting carefully is well and well over. Without heavy international pressure, there will be no movement in the process. That is now, perhaps more than ever, crystal clear. It should therefore now also be the choice of the Dutch government, and also of the Dutch government in the EU context, to opt for a tougher and firmer attitude towards Israel. The proposed labelling of products from the settlements must now be introduced quickly. This is in line with international law and was announced a few years ago. We have to go through with it now and do it, because it's putting pressure on it. The EU must now get parties to the negotiating table, including by putting the suspension or termination of the association agreement with Israel as a strong stick right away. It was not for nothing that such a treaty was linked to the safeguarding of human rights. Finally, we must now quickly recognise the Palestinian State. Other European countries have already preceded us and it would be an important signal, in line with the two-state solution advocated by the Netherlands for many years. After all, this two-state solution requires two states, so let us acknowledge it. Can the Minister promise us to take firm and swift action on all three points?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr. Chairman. The reconstruction of Gaza is difficult. The Arab countries, in particular, have made a great deal of promises, but they are not getting over it for the time being. You may wonder what caused that. You can point out the negative, which will give rise to this, but perhaps it has a slightly different, less negative, reason, namely that donors, even the Arab donors, are deterring from the potential risk of a rapid re-arming of the Hamas terrorist organisation as a result of the financial donations. Hamas has still not shown any signs of a peaceful relationship with Israel. On the contrary. There is a real chance that the organisation will start preparing for the next terrorist attack and rebuild the missile arsenal. In any case, the reconstruction of Gaza will only make sense if Hamas is prevented from getting back on his feet in a new fight against Israel. So I would say: let us try to ensure that the Bs of bombing and shooting are eliminated. Then we can build. That's how the SGP's in there. Support for humanitarian reasons is fine, but we must prevent the money from being spent on wrong ends. Everyone in this Chamber gives the Gazans a better humanitarian position, but building the place up and then letting it break down again makes little sense. The re-arming of the Gaza Strip must be stopped. Are the efforts of the international community sufficiently focused on this? That is how I ask his Excellency the Foreign Minister. Peace must grow from the bottom. That is why it is important to stop the sowing of hatred. As Albert Einstein put it, "Peace can't be kept by force, it can only be achieved by understanding." That goes for both parties, of course. Unfortunately, in the official Palestinian state media, we still find countless anti-Semitic expressions. If you let that work on you, it'll make you cold around the heart. It's about glorifying violence and hatred, honoring terrorist perpetrators. That may seem hollow rhetoric, but you also taste a deep hatred in it. The detailed reports of Palestinian Media Watch speak volumes. Even senior Fatah officials speak with praise about attacks on rabbis. Killers are honored as martyrs. That way, peace never gets any closer. We have talked about it before and the solution seems to be only further away. In the past, there was a certain mechanism, a committee in which this type of official expression, both Palestinian and Israeli, could be notified. There were Palestinian, Israeli and American representatives on that committee, but it went to hell. Honesty commands us to say that Israel has pulled the plug. The reason for this was that the Palestinians insisted that everything that was submitted to the committee should not be made public. With what was presented, little or nothing was done. I would like to call on the Minister to re-establish such a committee and then to be completely transparent. Anything reported, whether Israeli or Palestinian, will be made public. The Committee should then be able to give an opinion by any authority on the alleged abuses. Is this not something in which the Netherlands and the wider EU can play a role? You don't realize peace by prescribing this for next year. Peace may help you realize it by starting to build on it. Will the Minister be committed to such a mechanism to curb hatred? The Pope called President Abbas a peace angel. Unlike my name suggests, I do not believe in papal prophetic gifts. Nor do I attach binding authority to his statements, although I sometimes appreciate them very much. Nevertheless, I would like to end with the wish that President Abbas peace angel may be a self-fulfilling prophecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr Bishop joins in the lines of the Pope and I think that is a moment to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u54	I think I've kept my distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u55	Does Mr Bishop agree with me that it is ultimately the Pope's prerogative to appoint an angel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u56	No, I'm sorry to disappoint you. I'm too much Calvinist to measure his authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u57	If you don't tell me, as a Catholic, I wouldn't have expected otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u58	You, I fear, secretly agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr. Chairman. Nine months after the Gaza war, we are talking about 2,100 deaths, including many children, but also the family of a Dutch diplomat. We are also talking today about 10,000 injured, 19,000 destroyed buildings and 100,000 Palestinians who have lost their homes. On the Israeli side there are 73 dead and 500 injured and there has been a great deal of fear of the missiles fired. They're terrible figures, behind which much more suffering and trauma are hidden. We have already discussed the extremely difficult reconstruction of Gaza and my colleagues have rightly asked questions about it. But nine months after that, it is time to at least start drawing conclusions about this war. Was there purely self-defense, as the Prime Minister said in July of last year after the invasion, or did one or both parties in the conflict violate important principles and international obligations? What about the now impressive stack of research reports from human rights organisations, the Secretary-General of the United Nations and even from within the Israeli army? I am referring to the report of the organisation Breaking the Silence, which is remarkably consistent in her and in her firm conclusions. In the summer, my party and others have already called for an independent investigation. The UN Human Rights Council has appointed a panel for this purpose. Does the Minister share the importance of this independent UN investigation? What is the situation with regard to the access of researchers and the participation of different parties in the research? And what efforts have been made to support the researchers? Can the Minister confirm once again that the Netherlands, as a member of the Human Rights Council, will now take the conclusions of that panel extremely seriously? The Middle East peace process, as we still call it, does not look good, let us be honest. On the Palestinian side, there is still a split and there is no effective authority of the Palestinian Authority in Gaza. In Israel there has been a nasty election campaign with disappointing results and coalition formation. Of course, we will also have to judge this Israeli cabinet on its actions, but the chance that a nest full of hawks will make way for a peace pigeon is extremely small. Anyone who sums up the statements of the new rulers will once again see an extraordinary amount of consistency, but will also be frightened. An example of this is the new negotiator who has been appointed. Mr Shalom is his name and you might say that this offers hope, but he calls the West Bank "Israel's bulletproof vest" and that offers little hope. There have been announcements recently to expand settlements and legalize outposts. That's even in the coalition agreement. However, there is no commitment to the two-state solution in the coalition agreement. These are matters that we cannot accept and cannot accept. So it is time to finally stop accepting that there is a lack of progress, almost 50 years of occupation, and to put pressure on it. It is time for the EU itself to take responsibility and stop hiding behind the US and others. How does the High Representative intend to develop an EU strategy? When can we see it? And does the Minister agree with me that the commitment of both sides to peace negotiations based on this two-state solution is the measure to which we must measure their actions? Does he agree with me that the EU's future relations with these parties depend on this and that it should not only be in words, because no doubt Netanyahu will be talking about the two-state solution again, but also in deed to express that commitment? Finally, the Palestinians have joined a number of international organisations, not least the ICC. The PvdA welcomes that and agrees. It does bring with it rights and obligations. It would be good if we were to support the Palestinians in the implementation, implementation and reporting of their treaty obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mr Servaes spoke about relations between the European Union and Israel and the Palestinians. In fact, he said that both sides should be looked at in word and deed and how they behaved in relation to the negotiations, and that our relationship should depend on them. As far as I am concerned, Mr Servaes is therefore making a very fair condition for relations between the EU and, among other things, Israel and Palestine. My question, however, is: why does he not set the same conditions for relations between the Netherlands and both countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u61	I do not know what Mr Sjoerdsma is basing myself on. Last November, meeting in the Foreign Affairs Council, the European Member States laid down exactly this principle. As far as I can see, these kinds of conclusions are adopted unanimously. The Dutch Minister has therefore committed himself to this. As far as I am concerned, that principle, that measure, is guiding all our relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u62	That is interesting, because if not only Mr Servaes is committed to this, but if he also thinks that Minister Koenders has committed himself to it, it raises the question of why, despite the settlements, the Netherlands, despite the government that Mr Servaes calls and despite all the signals that are now being shown by the Israeli Government, is intensifying that relationship and thus strengthening, broadening and deepening it. While Mr Servaes is actually saying that this should perhaps not happen in view of the facts on the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u63	Again, I do not know exactly what Mr Sjoerdsma is basing this assumption on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr Sjoerdsma would like to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u65	Let me explain. It is, of course, about the bilateral fora, with both Israel and the Palestinians, which are also explained by the cabinet as an intensification of relations. I hope this is a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u66	That's a clarification. Frankly, I do not know if you can see that as an intensification; it is continuing for the time being. That's obvious. But let me also make it clear that I have some very important principles for the future. If the parties with which we have these fora, or one of those two parties, would object to it because they no longer see it as a support for their development and as a contribution to the peace process, we should have a serious discussion about it. At the moment when it appears that the activities, in this case with Israel, would also benefit companies and organisations beyond the Green Line, I am the first to be at the microphone. Maybe Mr Sjoerdsma is just a little faster, but I won't be far behind him. We are now talking about an EU approach that we have been calling for together for a long time. I ask the Minister: when is this coming? Does this principle apply? Are there any concrete proposals in this regard? It has to come and if there is a European line out there, what I hope for and what I am committed to, I think that the Netherlands should also support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. In Israel, the only democracy and rule of law in a region governed by the law of the jungle, elections took place on 17 March. In line with the mores of the Middle East, they went rough. Also in line with the best Israeli traditions, the most far-reaching campaign agreements were revoked a day after the elections. The most prominent contribution was made by the man who, to the misery of many and to the surprise of all, managed to prolong his premiership: Benjamin Netanyahu. Although the ratio between left and right in the Knesset has not changed substantially, the balance of power has changed. The power base of Netanyahu is stronger than ever, whether we like it or not. His coalition of partly nationalist parties, which he ate during the elections, has only a majority of one seat in the Knesset. Netanyahu's cabinet contains ministers who have the most bizarre political statements in their name. As always, however, the VVD will also judge this Israeli government on its actions. Of course, we will look in particular at whether the intention of this Israeli government is still to seek a two-state solution. In the Knesset, that majority is still there. That majority in the Knesset today is as large as the majority that once made Oslo agreements possible in 1993: a seat. Israeli politics is full of ambiguity. That is why it is good to keep an eye on our common goal. That is a state for the Palestinians and security for the State of Israel. After the failure of the negotiations under Kerry and since the Palestinians entered the UN and the ICC, there is once again a great deal of doubt about the possibilities for peace. The number of books in my closet with titles like "The Last Chance" covers a small meter, but I am convinced of one thing. If you really want to destroy the last chance of a peace agreement, then you must reward parties for action that makes negotiations difficult or even impossible. That applies to the Israelis and their settlement politics. This applies to the Palestinians and their course along the international fields to get applause without wanting to play one game on that field. Only in the field, only at the negotiating table can the painful and necessary concessions be made. There is no alternative to negotiation. In order to keep a perspective on negotiations, the Netherlands will have to do what is agreed in the coalition agreement: to encourage both parties. After the Gaza war and the enormous amount of money 'pledged' in Cairo, we find, unfortunately, that the Palestinian Authority's window of opportunity to make a visible contribution to reconstruction has been squandered. I would like to know from the Dutch Government whether it wishes to continue to urge Israel to increase the export of goods from Gaza, made possible through a Dutch scanner. The export of goods leads to income and a little perspective for the Gazans. I want the scanner at the Allenby Bridge to be deployed in the shortest possible time. I would ask the Minister whether it is perhaps an idea that EU representatives at the Palestinian Authority should physically accompany the PA ministers when they visit the ministries in Gaza to demonstrate our support for the role of the Palestinian Authority in Gaza. Just as we see the export of Palestinian products as a contribution to improving the fate of Palestinians, we also see the cooperation fora as an opportunity to give Palestinian entrepreneurship the opportunity to look at Israel, not only as a state of conflict, but also as the state of Israel, the start-up nation, a country with a phenomenal innovation capacity with which the Netherlands can and must incredibly benefit. The visit of the Prime Minister to Israel already resulted in the establishment of an Israeli company headquarters, ICL, and 300 jobs in Amsterdam. It is therefore a good thing that we not only discourage activities that contribute to Israeli settlements, but also encourage activities, just as Minister Timmermans said here on 16 January. That is why I ask Minister Koenders whether cutting an AOW benefit from a Holocaust survivor beyond the green line is an example of a new policy of discouragement since his arrival. How about this? I'd like to get some clarity. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is threatening to sink on the international agenda and also in the region because of the focus on Iran, which is not only manifest in Jerusalem, but also in Riyadh, Cairo and Amman. A number of Arab enemies of Israel have now become strategic partners against the backdrop of a threat that not only manifests itself at the Israeli border, but also at the Golan Heights, where you can almost look Hezbollah, ISIS and Al-Nusra in the eye. We all know what is needed for a Palestinian state, but we also know what is needed for Israeli security in a region set on fire by Islamic fundamentalists. If we want to keep the adjacent plot wet and if we do not want both the Jewish home and the Palestinian home to be affected by the flames, there is only one way: that is the way to a peace agreement. Two years ago, I was here too, and I was the only one who expressed his hope for the resumption of peace negotiations. I wasn't laughed away at the time. It's true: anyone who preaches doom here has a 90% chance of being right. However, I insist on what I said here and I say it again. We have a unique position to make something happen; we, Europe. Perhaps not tomorrow and perhaps not the day after tomorrow, but there will be a peace agreement. It is also our wise attitude to see that happen in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u68	The latter raises some questions. Previously, the VVD focused mainly on the involvement of the Americans, but I hear Mr Ten Broeke pointing very clearly towards Europe. Maybe he can explain that. The question I originally came to the microphone for was, however, about the remark about pensions. Mr Ten Broeke asked the Minister about the distribution to the Holocaust survivors. Can I also hear the opinion of the VVD on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u69	The involvement of the Americans is necessary in all cases and for any negotiation. We can't do it without the Americans. I have often argued here that it would be nice if Europe could make a contribution to this, but I have often added that I fear that it is a wheelbarrow with frogs that can jump in all directions. I am very hopeful about Mrs Mogherini. I think I was one of the few who was immediately very positive about her appointment, and certainly about her commitment to this process. She arrived in Israel this afternoon and had a discussion with the Israeli Prime Minister, who, to the surprise of some of her colleagues here, once again expressed her firm support for the two-state solution. Some colleagues will choose to look at only one statement and ignore the rest. We cannot do without Israel, without the Palestinians, and without Europe we cannot do without it. I still believe that some European countries can certainly play an important role. The Netherlands is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u70	The pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u71	The pensions. I believe that the Christian Union, together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has asked questions about this. I do not remember whether it was Mr Bishop or Mr Van der Staaij. Honestly, I haven't seen if those questions have been answered. Apparently, that is not the case. Then there is nothing left for me but to wait for that answer. I think that Mr Voordewind can see in my question that I hope that these payments can simply be followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u72	Those are hopeful signals. I hope that the Minister will follow the same line, not only for the Holocaust survivors, but also for others born after 1945. I would like to comment on Europe. I now hear Mr Ten Broeke mention a list of players who might be involved in the negotiation process. In the last row, however, he does not mention the Americans. Does Mr Ten Broeke think that Europe is moving forward now that Kerry's role has apparently been played out? Or is there still a role for America?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u73	I was just beginning to say that we can't do it without the Americans. It is inconceivable that a new Oslo Interim Agreement can be successfully reached without the Americans. However, we must recognise that the situation in the region also offers opportunities at the moment, no matter how crazy that may sound. There are even opportunities for this conflict. This has to do with the fact that Israel's enemies have become practically strategic partners of Israel. I do not mean the Arab countries which already have a peace agreement with Israel, but those which still do not have it and which have a major influence in both Gaza and the Palestinian Authority. I am referring, for example, to Saudi Arabia. We've never had that situation before. The Arab countries will therefore also have to play a role in this. And yes, I hope for a constructive Europe. I recognise that so far we have not seen this from Europe, but hope is alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u74	This is a powerful plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u75	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u76	I haven't finished my sentence yet, so watch me. The international community is indeed making a move. That's the piece that's powerful. In his speech, Mr Ten Broeke also indicated that the Netherlands should encourage the construction of settlements. Maybe I misunderstood that, but I'd like to be clear about that. Mr Ten Broeke expressed the hope that someday the conflict would be resolved and that peace would be achieved. How long, according to the VVD, the largest group in Parliament, should it be before it finally happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'd rather that had happened yesterday. I don't have a crystal ball in which I can see how long it will or may last. The most wrong signal that we can send from The Hague is that we determine the expiry date. However, sustainability is mainly determined by those parties who, first and foremost, have to make concessions themselves at the table. They are both suffering: Israel when it comes to its security and the Palestinians when it comes to occupation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u78	I think that's part of the answer. Indeed, we do not have a glass ball, but does the VVD not marginalise the role of the Netherlands by pointing to the European Union in which the Netherlands can play an important role, by pointing to the United States and pointing to the Arab countries? In the words of Mr Ten Broeke, we are used in the Netherlands to monitoring the international legal order. What is the VVD doing from the Netherlands to guard that international legal order? I don't notice much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u79	I have not yet been accused in debates on this subject that I would marginalise the role of the Netherlands. The opposite has happened very often, so I thank Mr Kuzu for this new reproach. This brings the situation back to balance, and that is exactly what is mostly lacking in this debate. Since Mr Kuzu, in his own contribution, has sung the state of law in this way, I would like to put the following to him. He referred to The Hague as the seat of international law. I would like to ask him again whether he feels committed to the Montevideo protocol, to the treaty that has been concluded there, which sets out exactly how to recognise a state. Mr Kuzu is, in my view, a specialist in the field of recognition, but I would almost say: read that treaty again and then explain to me whether there are fixed limits, a permanent population and an effective authority, as mentioned in the Montevideo Convention. In three cases, the answer is no and therefore there is no recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u80	In fact, Mr Ten Broeke should have asked this question when Mr Kuzu was behind the cathedral, but he is doing it now. So I am giving Mr Kuzu the chance to place a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u81	Thank you, Mr President. I am also aware of the Montevideo Treaty, but I would like to ask another question. Is Mr Ten Broeke aware that the Israeli Government has violated 61 UN resolutions, including the Fourth Geneva Convention and countless other treaties? He may continue to refer to the Montevideo Convention, but I would also ask him to look at international law and those 61 UN resolutions that violate government government of Israel. I therefore hope that Mr Ten Broeke is right and I am wrong. I have little confidence that a solution will be found in this government of Netanyahu, provided that the European Union, provided that the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u82	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u83	... provided that the United States, provided the Arab countries take action. I hope that Mr Ten Broeke is right. So my question is very specific: what about the other UN resolutions and all the other treaties violated by the Israeli Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u84	I support Mr Kuzu's hope that I will be right. He just mentioned all those treaties. I know that list. It's made regularly. Not least, reference is made to these UN conventions. However, I do not think anyone can deny that in that turbulent region, where so much is murdered and so much suffered, there is one state that meets the most basic standards of civilisation, democracy and rule of law, and that state is called Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr Ten Broeke presents a rather optimistic story. He hopes that a peace agreement will come out. He mentions the ingredients that we share quite widely here. At the same time, he also outlines a political context in Israel which does not give me that hope, but apparently Mr Ten Broeke does. That is special, because I do not hear the arguments for this in his story. What does that hope offer? And there is the question: if Mr Ten Broeke says publicly that there should be no too much pressure on the process, then what should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u86	With the 'political context' Mr Grashoff may refer to the newly formed government. At the beginning of my speech, I made it quite clear that there are ministers in that government who have made the most bizarre statements. For this reason, too, I believe that this government, like any government, should be judged on its actions. But unlike some other spokesmen in this Chamber, I will not be tempted to make an early judgment. The High Representative of Europe, Mrs Mogherini, indicated this afternoon when she visited that Mr Netanyahu, in his capacity as Prime Minister, did not commit himself to the two states on the first day after he announced his cabinet. For some, that won't be trusting. In any case, I think that is a step in the right direction. And the early recognition that Mr Kuzu is so in favour of is, in my view, an empty gesture to the Palestinians. It will only complicate the negotiations that we all want. It will put the Dutch and European positions at risk. Recognising a state which is de facto unable to function as a state, whose borders are not known and whose borders can only be made possible by negotiation and country swaps, merely creates a sham. If you give away the top prize, namely recognition, even before the negotiations begin, then you will only frustrate those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u87	At present, we have the situation that in Israel is about the most reluctant government we have known in years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u88	Who's in office for one day!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr Grashoff spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u90	If that is the situation and if Mr Ten Broeke says here that we should not put any pressure on it, then what is to be done? I do not hear that in his reply to my question. His answer is like sitting back and waiting and expressing hope again in two years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u91	Peace negotiations in this area may be the hardest thing to think of, even if you could say the same about those in many areas of the world. In Ireland it took 30 years. It's been a long time in this area. There are conflicts that may seem even more insoluble. I don't have a wand. I don't have any predictive abilities either. However, I do have hope. In fact, I believe that we have an obligation to hold that hope, to enable those negotiations to continue to insist on those negotiations. That's what we have to do, at both sides. We have to do that to Israel. We also need to do so with the Palestinian Authority, which cannot agree with that other entity, Hamas, in order not to seek a one and a half state solution at least, but actually to have a two-state solution. However, they disagree very much. The political context in Israel is a difficult one, but at least there have been elections. The political context in Ramallah and Gaza City is also extremely complicated, and no elections have been held there for seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-10.u92	This brought an end to the first term of the Chamber. We now have an extra arrangement of work. Then I'll suspend for dinner break. We will resume this debate after dinner break. I'll let you know when that is.
