ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u1	Seven speakers have spoken for this debate. Unlike the list, the first speaker will be Mrs Swinkels of D66. She's got the benches full of fans... No, her group is here because she's making her maiden speech today. Mrs Swinkels, after your speech, I will suspend the sitting so that your colleagues can congratulate you. You can enjoy 15 minutes' speaking time without interruptions. Enjoy this moment!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin my fifteen minutes by thanking Mrs Kooiman for her collegiality. She has given me the opportunity to speak here first. That's how she makes sure I don't bite my nails off before I get to stick my fingernails off. I'm gonna do the last one now. This is the first time that I have spoken in the Chamber as a Member of Parliament, as the President has already announced. So far, I've been performing in courtrooms, first as a lawyer and later as a judge. I would like to make one appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. I had to argue there about woodworm, really a subject to get warm for. I was pleading and suddenly it became black in front of my eyes towards the end of my story. Later I woke up on the ground and there were six red togas bent over me. The English judge said: they go to any length to find the Court. They'll do anything to convince the court. I'm not gonna let it get that far tonight. Since 2002, I've been sitting in the front room as a judge, sort of where the minister is now. I listened, adjusted, weighed and judged there on the punishments demanded by the Public Prosecutor in countless cases, big and small. I noticed that the D.A. is firm, but also magistrate. In the absence of evidence, the D.A. sometimes demanded acquittal. In the case of the execution of a suspended sentence, the prosecution sometimes agreed to postpone if it appeared that the convicted person had found work or had just started training. It is not for nothing that the judiciary consists of the prosecutor and the judge together, the sitting and the standing magistrate. In the courtrooms, far-reaching judgments are made, severe penalties are demanded and increasingly imposed. In doing so, the prosecution and the court will carefully consider the interests of the victims and the suspects and, of course, the safety of society. That happens away from the noise of the street and away from the delusion of the day. The judiciary, the judges and the prosecution together represent one of the three state powers, in addition to the legislative and executive powers in our democratic system. Those are powers that are explicitly separate from each other. Checks-and-balances counterweight and prevent the emergence of absolute power. That counterweight, that balance, is the foundation for my political action and also for my party's, D66. During this cabinet period, under the guise of law-and-order, the administrative power has been pushed further and further out. Mayors are given increasing powers to enforce public order and security. Only yesterday, a proposal was put forward to allow potential expatriates to withdraw their passports without the intervention of the judge. This trend can also be seen in the bill on the table tonight. The result is that the final responsibility for the enforcement of penalties is no longer in the hands of the magisterial prosecutor, as part of the judiciary, but is transferred to the Ministry of Security and Justice. Speaking of this bill, I remember the news from 2012 that 15,000 convicted criminals are free and therefore not serving their sentence. It scared the hell out of me. I thought, "Are there so many of them?" Judges have not ruled for nothing and have imposed those penalties. A punishment must be carried out quickly, efficiently and effectively. If that doesn't happen, there's no point in punishing. Then there is a risk that punishment will no longer serve purpose, or even cause disruption if someone is getting their life back on track. I therefore commend the Minister for his efforts to improve this, by speeding up the execution of the sentence, ensuring that the sentence is actually implemented and, finally, informing all parties concerned. That's the point. Punishment for those who deserve punishment, that slogan likes to hang the VVD in bus booths. After five years of government, it is finally done. D66, however, is not entirely satisfied with the way in which this is done in the legislative proposal. As I said, the basis of the plan is that the Minister makes himself responsible for the execution of punishments. The Consultative Commission on Criminal Law expressed the strikingly: "This leaves the comfortable starting point that decisions are taken by a magistrate prosecutor who has his own responsibilities separate from the political context." How will the Minister prevent the implementation of sanctions in individual cases from becoming the subject of political debate in the Chamber? After all, it is possible that a person who does not pay his fine should serve replacement detention and, for example, gets very sick in prison because he does not get his medication on time. Will the Minister come to the Chamber to explain this to you? What about the Prime Minister's earlier statement that, should Volkert van der G. be released, the Minister of Security and Justice should leave? In addition, this ministry has often been extended to include policy areas such as the National Police, Security and Asylum. In addition, there is now the central direction on the enforcement of penalties. D66 has repeatedly pointed out that there is a tendency towards concentration of power in this ministry. My party is questioning that. The track record of this ministry doesn't exactly give the picture that one is in control. I refer again to Volkert van der G. and the Hoekstra report and I am also very curious about the findings of the Oosting Committee tomorrow about the receipt of Cees H. All this raises the question of whether the Ministry can still have this responsibility. Or would it be better if he stayed with the D.A.'s office? After all, the D.A. has the direction of the criminal case, leads the investigation, brings the case to court, makes the demand for punishment and finally ensures the enforcement of the judge's decision. The prosecution thus oversees the entire criminal record and therefore it has the expertise to decide, for example, whether a pregnant woman who has not paid a fine for shoplifting should go to prison for a week. After all, that doesn't involve a judge anymore. Is an official in the Ministry, far from the practice, going to decide that now? The Minister wants to draw this towards him because he believes that the performance of the prosecution is lagging behind. The D.A. wouldn't be paying enough attention to this. According to the Minister, it should concentrate on its core tasks of detection and prosecution. What happens, however, if you push through that reasoning? As far as police performance is concerned, there is still much to be improved. Will the minister then take police duties to DG's to the ministry? Since 2014, there has been the Administration and Information Centre for the Executive Chain (AICE). It acts as a spider in the web. Now 91% of custodial sentences are already executed within 24 months. That's why I'd like to hear from the minister why the central direction can't stay with the state's attorney's office. Has it been investigated whether the direction can remain with the D.A.'s office? If so, what did it come out of? If not, why hasn't that been investigated? In the original bill I read to my surprise that service of, for example, a subpoena was also possible through the counsellor, the roommate or even the employer and that this was sufficient. Only after strong criticism by the Council of State did the Minister decide to delete those proposals. That seems very sensible, but at the same time I find it rather worrying. The objections speak for themselves. For the rest, there is now an acceptable proposal. I refer to the introduction of electronic service, an adaptation to the current digital age, the effects of which will be evaluated. I therefore assume that the Minister will regularly inform the Chamber of this matter. The D66 group also welcomes the forward payments for traffic fines, which can reduce the number of hostage-takings. My group has asked for more attention to be paid to this. On this point, too, the Minister has our agreement. The D66 Group is therefore not yet convinced of the desirability, usefulness and necessity of shifting responsibility for the enforcement of sentences from the Prosecutor to the Minister. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to keep politics at bay in individual matters and why the Minister and the Public Prosecutor cannot achieve that desired improvement. Finally. When I entered the Chamber over a month ago, I jumped on a moving train, a train that is already a long way away. Sober as I am, I'll see what I can achieve in the period up to the 2017 elections. From my previous position, I know very well that there is much more than just criminal law and that the chances of someone getting involved in criminal proceedings are far less than the chances of getting involved in divorce, for example. Two legislative proposals have been tabled on this very point, and D66 has been one of the proposers. Those are the laws on partner alimony and matrimonial property law. In the coming period, I will do my best to bring these legislative proposals to a successful conclusion. So, Minister, we will speak again in this Chamber. I will conclude by expressing my thanks to all of you and thanking Mrs Kooiman for the opportunity she has given me. I am anxiously waiting for the Minister's answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Swinkels. Congratulations on your maiden speech. I will suspend the sitting so that the rest of the Chamber will also have the opportunity to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u4	After this festive moment, I will reopen the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me once again congratulate the new colleague from D66, Mrs Swinkels. It is perhaps also a little in her honour that we are having this debate today; of course, she has passed judgments for a reason. Nothing is more frustrating than pointing out judgments that are not then enforced. So we're actually talking a little bit about her work here. That's kind of nice, because that goes for me, too. As of today, I will return to this Chamber as spokesman for security and justice. What's more fun than starting with what I left behind before I entered the Chamber: the prison system and the enforcement of sentences and measures? I therefore believe that we are all pleased today to be able to discuss this with each other. After all, it's about something. It's about the credibility of our legal system. If far-reaching decisions are taken and people are punished, often after a huge lead time and involving many people and victims, can it not be that this punishment is not being carried out? That is the subject of today's debate: how are we going to put this whole system in place better? It's about the credibility of our order. It was a bit of a shock when the Court of Auditors presented a report which had all sorts of criticisms, such as the fact that it all lasts endlessly, the lead times and the linking up. At some point a picture emerged that after a verdict no one knew exactly what to do with it. Like it was some kind of dump in the middle of the state's attorney's office, the parole and the police. 'Cause who's supposed to pick it up? Is that why so many sentences have been there for so long? Of course, the government has tried to set up a number of improvement programmes. That's been very good. It has also been the run-up to this law. One of these improvement programmes was the establishment of a central institute: the Administrative and Information Centre for the Executive Chain, which has been operational since 1 January 2014. It is a good thing that this way we are trying to better link the partners and ensure a better flow, that responsibility is removed from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the prison system, and that there is a central place to make things work better. However, there are also a few special things attached to it. Let me get that right away. That's how I remember, from my time as prison director, that a verdict sometimes comes very late. Or that a convict comes back from transport very late. Luckily, we still had picket officers we could call. You look at it with your own records. But how are we gonna do that later? Is this service available 24 hours a day? And if there is any discussion as to whether someone has another sentence open, while he was in remand and suddenly being released, is there sufficient insight? How can there be occasional sparring about how that goes? Sometimes I had to go to the institution in the middle of the night to sign that someone was actually released. I had to be able to check that on the basis of papers I got out of my own safe. How are we gonna do that later? That's a matter of concern. How does the Minister view this? It is clear to us that we need to do something with such a central body. It is now too fragmented and people sometimes don't know it very well. In addition, there are too many sentences that are just half-dead somewhere. Nothing's gonna happen to that. People don't do community service. And in the end, those sentences are gonna be outlawed. It is strange that we have thousands and thousands of sentences that have to be carried out, but that this is not happening and that we are now closing prisons. That causes more than a wrinkle in society. It is therefore a good thing that we are trying to link this up. We have asked for a number of things, such as how the search is stepped up to ensure that people who have been punished also serve them. That's about more than just an administrative act. It is also a question of my colleague also tabling motions on this subject, so that we can actually step up this investigation. How's that backup gonna take place? That is a question we would like to put to the Minister today. There are still a lot of people out of the picture. I do have a question for the Minister about this, because, apart from time-barred sentences, it is known that about 12,000 prison sentences have not yet been implemented, but that can be done. A number of things are in active search, but is it true that 800 people are completely out of the picture and is nothing more being done about them? What is the Minister trying to do to make sure these people do their time? Or did they all leave with the northern sun? We'd like to know. What is the situation with regard to open sentences with a shorter duration than 120 days? Or, as I just said, with fines and community service? With the motion on this, of course, we wanted the prison sentences to be implemented, but of course it is also about the fines. We would like to know from this Minister how he will intensify on this point. The motion also asked to look at the statute of limitations. It is very important that people can't stifle the place and make sure they're out of the picture, but to make sure that they do end up serving their sentence. It is important that this actually happens. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether he can follow up on this in a letter of amendment to this law? I found it interesting that D66 asked today whether you really should not want the enforcement of penalties to end up in the Ministry. I had written down a whole paragraph which is also about whether it is sensible. However, I would like to join D66 for ease of reference, because wise words have been said about this. At the same time, I also remember that such a prison is simply at the service of the Ministry of Justice. In practice, I have never felt it any different in my entire service than that we were punishing the Ministry and that it is almost terminology that they are formulated by a prosecutor. However, it is important, as I think D66 rightly points out and what we also want to get an answer to, how we ensure that the Minister does not get his fingers in the door every time, but that those penalties are ultimately served and that everyone is treated equally. It shouldn't be that if a few people find it interesting to win one case, then here in the Chamber we're going to talk about the execution of one particular sentence. So I do want us to have some kind of serenity at the Ministry not to pry the finger between cell doors but to make sure that implementation just stays with the executive services. How can the Minister make that happen? We have talked about the exchange of information with the special centre that has been around for a while. I would like to know from the Minister what role that centre can now play in the treatment of adolescents. The Minister knows better than anyone that juvenile criminal law is something I am quite enthusiastic about, not to mention that we have been able to work together with both the VVD and the PvdA to ensure that that law passed through the Chamber. But, of course, what you see in the implementation now is that children should be treated and that judges should ultimately take decisions on them when that treatment does not come to fruition. We have also reported this here in the Chamber, to speak in this terminology. I would like to know what that special centre can do now, especially for adolescents. Can the Minister report that, too? I think that is a very important point that we should also discuss with this Minister. We hear different sounds that people within the prison system are well prepared for the shift to the center which is about to be implemented. In the meantime, the services within the prison system are no longer entirely in order. People have a new job and think: I'm not gonna sit on the sinking ship, I'm gonna do something else. Then you see that there are going to be problems within the prison system. How's the minister gonna solve that? Is the Minister going to ensure that the people who ultimately have to find another job can be properly managed from work to work? We're already closing the prisons, putting a lot of people out on the street. It would be a pity if we did not treat people with care who have been doing their job for so long for this ministry to ensure that the tasks to be carried out are actually carried out. In short, how do we deal with the fact that the AICES I've been trying to avoid this term is not yet at full strength, while the prison system can't actually take over the AICES properly? I still have a dilemma with regard to that center. I shall go into the Chamber with an exhortation on this; perhaps, as a Catholic, I can see that as a kind of desolation. I once experienced it as a prison director that I had a child of just 12 years old. He was in prison with me, completely disturbed because there was a lot going on. In the evening at 10 p.m. he came in, at the same time as the message that he had to be released immediately. I thought we'd call his parents. The parents said, however, that they didn't come for the child and that they weren't going to do anything. Of course, the D.A. wasn't reachable, and that's how I sat with a child, ordered to release it immediately. You know what I did? Nothing at all. I simply said 'good night' to him and I thought: the next day he will hear that he is free again, because that way we can deal with that child properly. Imagine if I had let him go and put him in prison on the Lunette Lane in Vught, with his 12 years, had sent him out on the street with his purse. Then what happened? Article 255 of the Code of Criminal Law states that you put someone whose care you were previously obliged to into a helpless state by simply throwing him out on the street. How are we going to deal with that later? I discussed this case with my colleagues at the time and they had all had something like that going on. If they were ordered to release someone, you have to do so, because you cannot illegally rob someone of their freedom. With most kids, I could fix it by calling the parents who said, "You can keep it." I did that one day, though those parents were responsible, but this situation was very different. How do we deal with the situation in which directors have to assume their responsibilities when they see that someone needs to be released, but they do not get proper reports from that AICE? So what are we gonna do? Then how does the minister cover his executive staff? For me, everything was resolved well in the end. The child was grateful and we were able to organize it well, but you're actually committing a crime under the flag of the Ministry of Justice. I'm very curious what the Minister thinks about that. We had a crazy thing this weekend about those woodburning stoves. There was a prison where people had come up with the idea of selling wood stoves under the name "Bad Boys." At some point, you saw those barrels in which scary crimi movies burn corpses. Those barrels would say "Bad Boys." That's how they were sold. That way a certain blanket was placed over it. I looked at it, along with my husband, who was also a prison director, and we thought, "Did they go crazy there?" As we worked on it for a longer time, we also looked at the website.We became increasingly convinced that they were completely lost there. It is very good that the Minister has acted and has ensured that this madness cannot continue. However, let us ensure that now Mrs Kooiman and I find each other again that the work in the prison system is working well. I would like to hear from the Minister how he will address his ingenuity in order to ensure that things that really cannot be done in this way will eventually happen. I'll come to a conclusion. I think it's a nice law. There's a lot in it. I still see myself as a student who had to understand the entire Code of Criminal Procedure. When I look at the proposal, I find that we simply have to start over again, because the whole book has been rewritten. It is quite a challenge to get that all sharp again for the students who now think they are ready, but still need to freshen up. Nevertheless, we are always demanding................................................................................................................................................................................................. To this end, we have tabled a number of amendments. I hope they will be embraced by the Minister. To serve him, we have also pulled a few things apart, because he is perhaps a bit more enthusiastic about it than about the other. We are trying to seduce him a little bit to speak with warm words about our amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u6	Mrs Van Toorenburg has been very active and has tabled four amendments. One of these amendments is based on the conditions which the prisoner is supposed to comply with before he can be released on parole. My question is a little semantic. The amendment proposes replacing "the conditions" with "all conditions." What's the difference? "The terms" are all the terms, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u7	It's a fair question. We've really been thinking about that. In practice, you get the idea that it is good if you meet most of the conditions, while you get some conditions in the execution. A lot of things are well arranged, but if we want to put it firmly in this law, if we don't want to discuss a lot of things anymore, if we don't want to discuss Volkert van der G. at the time, then I think it would be good to make it clear that someone who "must meet conditions" really has to meet all the conditions. You can say that "the terms" are the same as "all conditions." I thought "the" was an unclear word. If we mean "all conditions," let's put it that way. If you don't mean all the conditions, don't put them on, because if you put them on for the cat's violin, it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u8	You consider the word "all" to be a linguistic clarification and not more than that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u9	Yes. It's almost symbolic, but it's an important signal. What is the reason why we want that? If by changing two words you can send out a very clear signal that it is about all the conditions, do so. Think carefully about what conditions you impose and then also make sure that all these conditions are met. Otherwise, someone just shouldn't get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u10	Thank you for your contribution and welcome back to the file. I give the floor to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mr. Chairman. Punishments imposed that are not carried out undermine everyone's sense of justice and signal that you can go criminal without penalty. They are an insult to everyone's efforts to punish people who deserve it and they are also a waste of money. The ambition of this cabinet to do something about this is quite right and deserves our support. On the eve of the presentation of the Oosting report, we are waiting in suspense for even more direct responsibility to the Ministry of Security and Justice, namely in the area of execution of sentences. Surprisingly, my party thinks that is a good initiative and this is a good bill. In practice, a great deal is already being done by the services directly covered by the Minister. In part, therefore, there is simply codification of practice. What is not happening is that the direction and coherence of the criminal justice chain is being shaped in a handful. We have asked for this time and again as a chamber. That is what the General Court has asked for, and this cabinet has given priority to this. This implementation in the criminal justice chain really needs to be improved. We see here an example of how we can do better, at least on paper. We're entitled to chain management. It's a terrible word, but I do understand what it means: you need to know what's happening on your left and right to get everyone involved to work together properly. Because it didn't go well. There was too little success and there were too many punishments that were not carried out properly or not well enough. Information from all relevant players didn't get where it was supposed to go. There were too many procedures and there was too much uncertainty, too little priority and too little automation at the Public Prosecutor's Office. We dealt with the Bart van U. case here in the Chamber not so long ago, a specific case with a report that was not a lie. That was one of the things that had gone terribly wrong in terms of the execution of penalties. Bart of U. begged to serve his sentence, but got zero on the record for several reasons. With this, the Public Prosecutor's Office goes back a little bit more to its core tasks. I think that's a good development. I have a first practical question. Part of it, of course, continues to carry out execution duties, and part of it goes away. Does that loss of tasks also have a financial consequence? My second question is a little along these lines and does not directly affect the legislative proposal. The D.A. has more step-children, tasks that are not the primary core tasks of the D.A.'s office, for example in civil law. We also saw this with Bart van U., with the BOPZ legislation. The D.A.'s office also has some obscure duties in civil law. Is the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure considered, for example, whether it should still be transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office? I, too, have questions about political influence on the execution of sentences. I too have the Volkert van der G case in mind, which is, as far as I am concerned, the litmus test. In that case I was very pleased with the distance that politics, forced by regulation, loved that case. Now it is still the discussion whether he has broken the condition. It's the D.A.'s office that makes a decision. I understand that in the new law, the D.A. remains. Did I get that correctly? During the detention, it will be the minister. At Volkert van der G. that is no longer true, but there will probably be new Volkerts van der G. I hope it will not be possible to do so, but at least new things that are politically sensitive. How is the Minister going to guarantee that the political heaviness, as I call it, doesn't ring in those individual cases? I'm getting on another subject. Information from parties such as the probation and the judge should be better shared with the rest of the chain. I can imagine that very well. I remember the frustration that you, as a judge, had included a wonderful consideration in your judgment on how a sentence should be executed and that judgment would not then be included in the execution file at all. You really write that for Jan with the short last name. That's pretty frustrating, 'cause you don't do that for nothing. How is that going to be guaranteed? Does this fit in with the AICE and fits in with Quality and Innovation Justice (KEI)? How does that work? The next item is the letter of amendment. That was a very good one, because something that was finally implemented, including the Labour Party, but also others, has often asked for: can these Mulder fines be paid in instalments? This will be arranged up to €225. Perhaps in special cases you should be able to pay amounts underneath in instalments, I thought. To my happy surprise, so can I. What's needed is customization. Can this customization be delivered in all cases, regardless of the amount? As a derivative of this, I would like to talk briefly about hostages. The Ombudsman has written a destructive report on this matter. The procedure isn't right. We have had a reaction from the cabinet and in January the cabinet will return to show how this procedure will work out. I assume that, until then, no hostage or hostage will be carried out with the greatest possible restraint. Despite the fact that hostages still have a judicial test, it is not the case that people who can afford it, but do not want it, are being held hostage and people who want to pay but cannot, are not. The hostage-taking instrument appears to be mainly used for people who want to but cannot pay. That's really bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u12	Mr Recourt began his contribution very nicely by asking the Minister if he would have any political interference in the execution of judicial decisions. Now, however, he is asking the Minister - at least I cannot explain it any other way - in order not to have a judgment delivered by the judge. It's the verdict: you're being taken hostage because you didn't pay your fine. How does it relate to what Mr Recourt just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u13	Of course, it's not like that. The board, in fact the CJIB, is making a claim for hostage. The decision is made there. That is not right and falls outside the judicial domain. This is about the ultimate consequence of non-payment of fines. I understand the ultimate consequence. It's possible. I just want it drawn only by people who don't want to pay. It's really the board that makes that claim. Then the right hand has to check. He's doing this too limited as far as I'm concerned. He can only do this too limited because the files are not in order. Those files must therefore be put in order. So I'm certainly not just putting my finger on the Minister's sore spot, but there he is in part. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u14	I note that I can see a certain space between what you just said in your fine introduction and what you are saying about this particular issue, hostage-taking. Can I understand it so that you do not want the Minister's intervention in court decisions, but that you do require interference there, I find mine from the front of the case, in the action brought by the Public Prosecutor's Office through the CJIB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u15	Two things are about to get mixed up. First, the D.A. and the judge must remain in position if you are to take decisive measures. I think this bill does that. Secondly, you should not want political execution in individual cases. That applies to individual cases. What I said about hostages, I don't say in individual cases. I want the policy to be so that only those exceptional cases where people can pay but do not want to be proposed for hostageage, and not other cases. So that has nothing to do with individual political influence, but it is about policy. I'll come to a conclusion. For me, too, this bill is practice, because I once started as a probation worker organizing community service. In fact, you were working against those deadlines. It is therefore a good thing that the deadline is extended, but cannot be extended. After that, I was a state's attorney for a moment. So I know that side of execution too. After that, as a judge, I was allowed to impose and test something from time to time. From all three roles, I am extremely pleased with the ambition to better manage this, to better manage it, to have less red tape and to reduce the chances of errors. In short, the ambition in this bill is good. There's also an evaluation in it. Although I am still curious about the answer to my questions, I suspect that I will propose to my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u16	Mr. Chairman. First of all, from this point on, I would like once again to congratulate Mr Swinkels of D66, who has just made her maiden speech. I would like to add my voice to the slogan of D66: let's move forward! Then the substantive part of tonight. Among other things, the draft law on the enforcement of criminal judgments will be reviewed in the course of this evening. The objectives are to speed up implementation, to promote the effective enforcement of the penalty and to inform all the partners involved. My group is, of course, entirely in favour of speeding up punishment and actually implementing sanctions. It is bizarre that it may now be six months to a year before the execution of the sentence begins after the sentence. Even worse is that thousands of prisoners are still in prison in the Netherlands, as several colleagues have said. These people belong behind bars. The vast majority is also no longer actively sought. The legislative proposal we are discussing today must put an end to it, but my group is not yet convinced that the proposed changes will change this. Firstly, direct responsibility for enforcement is shifted from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Minister. This is a paper-based measure, which merely sets out the current factual situation. The Minister is already, although only politically, responsible for doing and leaving the Public Prosecutor's Office. The aim of the shift is the central control of various organisations. This direction is now being concentrated in the Minister's office. Whether this means the desired progress, we must wait and see. Nor does my group expect any miracles of the proposed electronic service. In fact, I do not think that a suspect will cooperate in electronic service, which will have to revert to paper service, i.e. service in person. Anyway, it can't hurt, of course. However, my group would like to know whether he does not expect an unnecessary delay in the absence of a fixed time-limit between failure to respond to electronic service and falling back on paper service. For the fines of less than €340, pardon is proposed, i.e. the power to terminate enforcement, if the judgment no longer serves a reasonable purpose. Of course, my group strongly disagrees with that. Unfortunately, this form of remission is already in practice. Worse still, it is particularly common in the case of troublemakers and polyplars, the so-called rotating door criminals who are subject to an ISD measure. "Isd" stands for "systematic offenders." The examples given by the Minister do not change my group's opinion. Not wanting to disrupt a care or reintegration project is no reason to cancel fines. A person has to learn that he or she should not fall into criminal behavior in every setback. By paying that fine, this person can learn an important lesson. Of course, guidance is not a problem. In the case of offences and offences resulting in fines, these fines should simply be paid. It is wrong to argue that someone could not do otherwise, and that this forced him to commit a criminal offence. Good-willed citizens who do comply with the law have that way checked. However, my group welcomes the fact that, following a question from my group, the Minister has decided, by means of a letter of amendment, to adjust the order of interests to be taken into account when imposing a penalty or conditions in the event of a penalty. First of all, the interests of victims and survivors must stand. Next comes the importance of the security of society, and then, as far as my group is concerned, the importance of the re-socialisation of the condemned. Nevertheless, my group prefers not to see socialisation returning to this list at all, because that point is already contained in the Penitentiary Principles Act. Nor is my group in favour of the proposal to lay down the legal basis for a recommendation on conditions to be set in all cases. Recently, the probation still advised to impose a suspended sentence, even though it itself was acknowledged that there was a major risk of recidivism. The probation also likes to impose the special condition of wearing an ankle bracelet, for example in order to strengthen a location ban or bid. I can give you some examples that I draw from the recent past. Think of Benno L. Think of terrorists who cut their ankle bracelets. Think of the possibility that the batteries are empty. The convict must recharge those batteries himself. That's gonna go wrong, and the convict's gonna be lost. So we can spare such advice as toothache. Despite the fact that these advices from probation are only opinions, my group believes that parole is too much in this way, because those opinions are generally followed. Moreover, this is also a bit self-interest of the probation, because it also provides her with work. My text still states that my group is considering tabling an amendment on this point, but that amendment has already been tabled. The next point does not concern my group for the first time with the Minister. I'm referring to an obligation to appear in court. My group always hopes that it will no longer be necessary to raise this point, but since the Minister and the Secretary of State continue to believe that people themselves will come to the prison gate for serving the sentence, I will always make this point. I've said that before. The pilot to raise the percentage of convicts who come in, has called the Secretary of State "a success." Instead of 30%, the reporting rate is now 40%. So still less than half of the convicts are coming in themselves. One of the reasons for the increase is that self-detectors are promised a plus regime, or more freedoms, if they report in good time. As far as my group is concerned, this too is the reverse world. Nor does it give citizens a tax advantage if they submit their tax returns on time. I told you, a lot of convicts are just out there. Colleagues said the same thing. By ignoring the sentence imposed, these convicts pay no attention to justice and thus also to society. It is even sadder that they have the opportunity to do so. As far as my group is concerned, someone simply has to answer for his actions, to society, and specifically to the victims and their families. It is therefore necessary to be present at the hearing at which the judgment is delivered. Following a conviction, the person concerned, who has thus been transformed from a suspect to a convicted person, can be locked up immediately. That way it becomes impossible to ignore the punishment. I am also considering tabling a motion on this point. But hope will live; perhaps the Minister will answer in a moment that he finds this somewhat sympathetic and that he will take a sympathetic look at it. I don't ask much, so who knows? I come to the point of criticism that the Minister is now also familiar with my group and that the Minister, when he was a Member of Parliament, spoke about more often than he does now, now that he is a Minister. I'm referring to the terms of parole. Convicts will continue to ignore or violate the punishments and conditions imposed on them as long as this is permitted. There are consequences, but they are not always imposed. Therefore, in the event of violation of the conditions, the remainder of the sentence should be served by default. In imposing the penalty, the judge should also take into account only the circumstances of the case relating to the offence. Finally, I have a point of criticism. In the explanatory statement, the Minister states that the purpose of the legislative proposal is to speed up the implementation of penalties and to ensure that the punishment is actually carried out, and that is what I am mainly concerned about. In this context, it is strange and contradictory that penalties can be reduced, because if a person has been sentenced to prison for several offences, it is now proposed that the sentenced person should serve those sentences as closely as possible. My group agrees with that, but now it comes to mind: in the proposed Article 6:2:6................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the case of shorter custodial sentences, which is usually the case, because there are not so many very high prison sentences here, to the regret of my group, this leads to a reduction in penalties. An amendment has already been passed by Mr Bishop of the SGP. You will therefore not be surprised that we are very positive about this. I even get the opportunity of my colleague to sign that amendment. This criticism also applies to a lesser extent to Article 6:2:14, but the essence is that there is a possibility of a penalty reduction, while the judge has decided otherwise. Despite the fact that this is already covered by Article 15l of the Criminal Code, this is an opportunity to note that my group does not agree with that. To conclude, in order to achieve the objective of this bill, to promote the effective and/or faster enforcement of criminal decisions, my group's proposals should be implemented. Experience shows that a number of years go by before some ideas are taken over. I told you, hope is a living thing. The legislative proposal now provides for penalties to be imposed as soon as possible after the ruling. We all know that this is not happening properly now, so the legislative proposal is a step in the right direction. However, my group will only be able to decide after the Minister has replied whether it can agree to the legislative proposal. This is particularly true of the response to the amendment to item No. 11 and to a lesser extent that in part No. 13. They are very important to my group, because penalty reductions cannot be the intention. This goes beyond the objective set by the Minister himself of the legislative proposal, namely the actual execution of penalties imposed. Hence my question: where has the law-and-order rhetoric of the VVD gone? We remember them, the campaign logos: "From now on, for all who deserve punishment: punishment" and "More punishment and less understanding for criminals."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u17	I now give the floor to Mrs Kooiman of the SP, who will also speak for about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u18	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mrs Swinkels. I always like to hear that someone can be so passionate that they almost fall by the wayside. I'm glad that didn't happen today. I am very pleased that you have become a colleague of all of us with your expertise, Mrs Swinkels. Welcome. Actually, my colleague Van Nispen would be doing this debate, but he could not be here today because he has just become the new father of Tobias van Nispen. I could not fail to wish him all the happiness of this world from this place. By the way, the family is doing very well. And I can't escape the impression that he's gonna be sneaking around from the bank today watching this debate with baby. Now it is up to me to do the debate on the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Decisions. That law takes a first step in modernising the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is a first small step, which the SP also finds a clear and careful step. We have had enough time and opportunity to think about this and to form our thoughts on it. The SP still has concerns about the next steps to be taken towards modernising the Code of Criminal Procedure. The SP also believes that modernisation is in place, but it is planned that the code will be able to last another 100 years. In the opinion of the SP, the revisions of the General Administrative Law Act and the Civil Code have been dealt with much more wisely. They're being dealt with much more time-consumingly. Then why don't we do the same with the Code of Criminal Procedure? Then organisations can think with care and attention. After all, hasty haste is rarely good. What's the rush? The SP will probably come back to this point, but I thought it would be good to ask the Minister's views on this today. I think we all agree on the objective of this law, namely to make the criminal justice chain work more effectively, to speed up the enforcement of criminal decisions and to inform all relevant partners. So that's also about informing the victims. I think this is a good ambition. I think everyone agrees on that. We do have a number of comments, for example on the shift of responsibility for the implementation of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Minister. In this situation, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall issue to the Minister all decisions which may be enforced. The coordination of the actual enforcement of a criminal judgment is organised at the CJIB. The concern of the SP, and of many expert bodies in the field itself, is that this shift to the minister entails the risk of making the enforcement of criminal decisions more political. A number of colleagues have just rightly appointed that. There is a risk that a judge's decision will become the subject of political debate even more quickly, because the minister can be addressed more quickly when it comes to enforcement. I would very much like the Minister to reflect on this carefully. The coordination of the actual enforcement of a criminal judgment is thus effectively invested in the Central Judicial Collection Office. In fact, all chain information is transferred to the AICE, the Administration and Information Centre for the Executive Chain. I think Mrs Van Toorenburg called it the'special centre' very nicely. I think that's what you're gonna get. I've been chewing on it, because what exactly does this mean and what is actually going to happen? The Minister states that all execution orders are given by the Office to the Minister and will in practice be assigned by the CJIB to the AICE, i.e. the special centre. The Special Centre returns the assignment to the authorities responsible for implementing the decision and coordinates the progress in implementation so that the Public Prosecutor can be better and more involved in the investigation. The SP agrees with the latter. Of course, we think it is important that the Public Prosecutor's Office should be able to deal more with the investigation and less with the administrative side of it. At the moment, however, the Public Prosecutor's Office often fails to meet the deadlines. I would like to mention, for example, the timely delivery of a criminal judgment so that enforcement can be started. So there is already a delay on the line on the first part. That's not so crazy when you look at the huge cuts in the D.A.'s office in the past. I know that we will come back to that when we discuss the Spring Paper, but how is the Minister going to ensure that all these initial deadlines are met? Can he elaborate on that? I also find it odd that 30 fte are being removed from the state's attorney's office. If you want to put more and more effort into tracking, why don't we keep that 30 fte for the State's Attorney's Office? If you take 30 fte away from the state's attorney's office and give 20 fte to the CJIB, I'll miss 10 fte. Have they been forgotten or resolved? I see the Minister nodding and hearing him muttering something like "efficiency," but I would very much like to know exactly what he means by that. I do not see that efficiency blow, but I am sure the Minister can help me with that. I have another question about the substance of the implementation of the sanction imposed. The judge is about the sanction imposed and the minister will then, in his own words, not change anything about it. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge may also give an opinion to the Minister on the manner in which enforcement is carried out. That advice is not binding, but why not? Why would the Minister deviate from an opinion? Can he give an example of that? This brings me to the first part that many of us have already spoken about, namely the political finger in the mouth. If the Minister regularly deviates from an opinion of a judge or the Public Prosecutor on enforcement, there is a high risk that we will question the Minister regularly in the Chamber. I would very much like to see how we see it. I see that Mr Van Oosten has another question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u19	I have one more question for my own edge. I have the note on the report before me and I am looking for the part that Mrs Kooiman is afraid of. Several political groups asked questions about this in the written round. The Minister made it quite explicit that this is not about the sanction imposed. That decision, of course, lies with the judge. The question as to whether it will be brought before the court is again before the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is purely about implementation. The moment you come to a new judgment because a fine is not paid or because a conditional release is violated, the judge again comes to the fore. What exactly is Mrs. Kooiman so afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u20	That's exactly what I'm asking for right now. It is very good that Mr Van Oosten is asking the same question. It is true that the Minister states in his reply that he is not referring to the court ruling. That's what I just said. It is more that he can ignore the opinion of the Public Prosecutor on enforcement. I'm just wondering. I'm thinking out loud. Can the Minister give us an example, in which this is the case? Many bodies and many colleagues have also asked questions about this, including members of the minister's group. I would like to prevent us from standing here regularly to hold a political debate on an opinion from which the Minister has deviated. I would very much like to be clear about what situations we are talking about. I think it is a fair question from Mr Van Oosten and I am happy to include it in my question to the Minister. Another part the SP wants to come back to is the hostage situation in non-payment of a traffic ticket, so lock up in prison if you don't pay the fine. The SP has always been very clear in its position on this issue. If you can pay the fine, but you simply don't, hostage-taking is an ultimate means of enforcing the payment of the fine. If you want to pay, but you can't, there's got to be a payment arrangement. The SP still receives weekly emails and letters from people who want to pay, but really can't. Let's take Barry, for example. Barry had three mopeds and wanted to make it one moped. It wouldn't be very convenient not to suspend those mopeds. The insurance went on, so he gets fined. He wants to make a payment arrangement, but in the end he can't do that because of the rigid attitude of the CJIB. Eventually, the fine will be €1,400. The SP, the PvdA and also D66 have regularly drawn attention to this. Barry wanted to pay, but he couldn't, and eventually he got into trouble. It is incredibly nice that this law has been amended. Mr Recourt was right to point that out. It's much more humane. A standard payment arrangement will be offered to the people with a fine starting from €225. For people with a fine under €225, customisation is possible. This is really a huge advance, as I said. It's a really big step in the right direction. I do have a few more questions about this. Why do we use the €225 limit? It feels like that amount is a little out of the blue. Now the Minister can say that under the amount of €225 customisation is possible, but that customization is really very rigid. There must be serious debt problems. It must be reported or known to the municipality or the administrator. You have to be able to prove that you have a very low income. There must be a reasonable payment proposal. There must not have been an arrangement before. Work must have been done to prevent the problem further. In addition, the application should preferably be made by an authority which engages in activity for the person concerned in the context of debt problems. That's quite a laundry list. I can only conclude that there must be a very hopeless situation in which you must have help. For a MP, the limit of €225 can be done very well, even for a SP'er with a payment €225 can also be done very well. But for a single mom in welfare, that's sometimes very difficult. If you're a single mother in welfare, that doesn't mean you're right in debt relief, but you do have a demonstrably low income. Why does the Minister not choose to use the income for tailor-made purposes, as in the case of the scheme of legal aid financed? People with lower incomes can then qualify for customization. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The Minister remembers that I once investigated traffic fines among police officers. They said at that time a little crazier: it's better to tear down a flash pole than to get flashed by it. That concerned the amount of the fine. Sometimes the fine for tearing down the flash pole was much lower than the fine you got when you got flashed. You can question that. What the policemen said also had to do with the fine being dropped, if you don't pay the fine and you get put in jail. That is not the case with the Mulder Fines Act, so with the traffic fines. Why aren't these fines looking at replacement detention? I have one more point on this subject. If you increase the traffic penalty at a rapid pace, in the opinion of the SP this is very disproportionate. First, the traffic penalty is increased by 50% and then a further 100%. I'm just wondering if the Minister can tell me what the idea was once behind this. We see a rise in the willingness to pay as a result of the payment arrangements made at the pilot on this point. This willingness will also increase if we moderate the legal increases. In fact, criminal penalties and compensation measures are subject to very different increases. Why isn't that part of it? I have tabled an amendment on that point. The traffic fines were a very big point. Finally, I have three other points. First of all, I'm gonna go into the pardon for life-long punishments. It is theoretically possible for lifelong punishments to obtain grace, for example when they are seriously ill or have significantly improved their lives. In order to grant pardon, resocialisation for lifelong punishment must be possible. But they're not being offered a re-socialization path right now. The European judge has therefore turned a blind eye to the Netherlands. This ruling has been under consideration for a year now. Why is this taking so long, because in my opinion the verdict was clear? Mrs Van Toorenburg also talked about tracking down convicted persons who are untraceable to the prosecution and police. I remember very well that we were standing here, including Mrs Helder, when we talked about the destruction plan for the prison system. Then we said: all the crooks who are now waiting for a place in a cell and are untraceable, should simply be picked up and put in jail. We made that very clear at the time. I think it is very good that the Minister says that we need to tackle this and that the police need to free up more capacity to do so. There is therefore no capacity, but capacity needs to be released. That will be at the expense of the capacity already available to the police. If the police have to deal with this at the expense of what? I agree that bad guys should just get caught. However, I also think that the police should have enough hands to do so, because this seems to be an extra task. I am very glad that Mrs Van Toorenburg is back on this dossier. I look forward to the next debates. Of course, I very much agree with her that we should look closely at work in detention. She said crazy that Bad Boys Brand might not be such a good brand name. The essence, however, is that local initiatives, such as the commercial provision of products made in detention, are not at all so wrong. So I would like to call on the Minister to really do a little more work on this, because it is very nice if there are local initiatives and more commercial opportunities can be offered, so that the work in detention will ultimately be much more profitable. Mr President, so much for my contribution. Right in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u21	You've even got 14 seconds left. I give the floor to Mr Bishop. He has entered for 12 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add my congratulations to my colleague, Mr Swinkels, for her beautiful maiden speech. I wish her many interesting speeches in this room and I hope she will enjoy them a lot. I would like to add my congratulations to the Van Nispen family on the birth of a son. Perhaps Mrs Kooiman can convey my congratulations. In any case, it is good that they are mentioned in the Acts. They count twice, by the way, because I am allowed to replace my colleague, Mr Van der Staaij. Then his congratulations will be taken at once. Tonight we are discussing the final chapter of the criminal justice chain. We have a rule of law in the Netherlands which generally works well, at least we have that impression ourselves. If people have committed criminal acts, a penalty will be imposed for this. At least that's the intention. You can argue whether it is always the right punishment and whether it is heavy enough, but we are not discussing the fact that criminal offences should be punished. This is not self-evident everywhere in the world. In order to ensure proper detection and prosecution, adequate investment is needed. The SGP has already discussed this in detail when it comes to the budget for security and justice. So that's what we're gonna let go of now. This issue will undoubtedly come back to the Spring paper. I would like to make a number of general comments on this bill and then I would like to zoom in on a few issues on which we have tabled an amendment. Once a sentence has been imposed, it must actually be carried out. We all agree on that in principle, because otherwise it does not make much sense. If that does not happen, the exercise of justice, which is the core task of the government, will become a varnish, without actually creating a protective layer. In practice, however, it seems that things are still going wrong. Punishments are not carried out properly or not at all, there is insufficient coordination between the authorities concerned, or the sentence is only served or executed very late. A large proportion of the penalties, 75%, will be implemented within six months. However, it takes two years to implement 91% of the penalties. For that remaining percentage you need an extra year and a half. That's the law of decreasing yield, let's just say. The latter 9% is extra difficult, if not impossible. The SGP supports the government's efforts to improve this, to establish in a separate book within the Code of Criminal Procedure all arrangements for the enforcement of judgments and decisions. One of the government's proposals to make this more efficient is to entrust the Minister of Justice with the implementation. This raises the question of the relationship between the more technical execution of judgments and the political influence of the choices made. How far does the Minister's specific mandate extend? What measures can he take to speed up or delay certain matters? How can this be monitored in practice? What are the concrete changes to existing practice? Let us look, for example, at the conditional release regime, one of the schemes that will be included in the new Code of Conduct. The current provision expressly includes a power for the Minister to give instructions and to request the Public Prosecutor's Office to postpone conditional release. Why is this provision no longer reflected in the new regulation? Is this still possible, in the light of the Minister's overall responsibility for implementation? In any case, the SGP has difficulty with the existing conditional release regime; that will not be unknown to the Chamber. This arrangement ensures that prisoners can, in principle, be released after two thirds of their sentence, even if conditions may be imposed. We understand very well the purpose of socialisation, which is also enshrined in this law. We also wholeheartedly support this as a goal of punishment. At the same time, it cannot be explained that people do not receive their full punishment, but only part of it. We therefore believe that this regulation should at least be abandoned. Instead of a "yes, unless" arrangement, we have to go to a "no, unless" arrangement. You have to earn it. Instead of two thirds of the sentence, the parole must come at a later date. Is the Minister prepared to get to work on this and come up with a good idea of this? I would like to zoom in on a number of points on the basis of a number of amendments that we have tabled. The amendment in part No. 10 clarifies the arrangements for interruption of the custodial sentence. The SGP is not so much a difference of opinion about how easy it should be to use, but rather to provide clarity. It is precisely in such an important area of competence as the possibility of interrupting the custodial sentence that the legislation must be clear. The SGP therefore wishes to state explicitly that these are exceptional cases and a time limit which does not exceed what is necessary, i.e. as limited as possible. The starting point must be that a custodial sentence is actually implemented in principle. The amendment in part No. 11 concerns conditional release. Under the law, someone has to serve a sentence of less than a year in full. This point has also been explained in detail by Mrs Helder, so I can compress it a bit. This also applies when a person has to serve another year's sentence after some time. It is logical that you allow these periods to be linked as much as possible, but the result is that this person is then eligible for early conditional release by that subsequent period, while this is not the case with twice a penalty of one year. This may mean that instead of 24 months, a person will only have to sit for 16 months. Of that second sentence of a year, that leaves only four months. In our view, the continuous implementation should not lead to a sudden reduction in the penalties. We therefore call on the Minister to arrive at a fair settlement, such as the one we have in the Amendment No. 11 proposed. This amendment has already been tabled, but Mr Helder will be added as co-rapporteur. The amendment in part No. 12 is also about parole. The law lays down the grounds on which this rule is not applied. This includes abuse by an inmate, attempted escape or risk of recidivism. It is also conceivable that this is not a concrete risk of recidivism on the part of the prisoner, but that there are other reasons which make conditional release undesirable. A concrete example is a person who has been convicted of a terrorist offence and has thus been subject to state repression. In such a case, should a conditional release be accepted as a kind of reward for good behavior? The SGP does not think this is the case. Is the Minister prepared to adapt the regime in such a way that there are additional possibilities to refrain from conditional release if the security of society is at stake or if the maintenance of public order could be threatened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u23	Mrs Swinkels has a question on this point, but I cannot entirely judge whether you were finished with this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u24	I was just about to move on to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u25	Then I felt it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u26	Yeah, it's an excellent timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u27	I have a question on the amendment to item No. 12. I see a wording in it which is very reminiscent of all the measures currently under consideration and which have already entered into force in the fight against terrorism. I see 'ground suspicion', 'insecure situations' and 'distortion of law and order'. Suppose someone was convicted, actually served his sentence and was entitled to parole. Does the SGP now say that this cannot be done if there is a valid suspicion? Let me get this straight. I mean that I find "a well-founded suspicion" very vague. Maybe I misunderstand it and the SGP considers it necessary that there is a new suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u28	If the execution of the sentence is properly carried out, the situation must not arise that a criminal offence is once again suspected. Somehow, supervision has not been sound. The interpretation of this phrase is as follows: the right to conditional release lapses as if a conviction, for example in the event of a terrorist attack, someone is persisting in his ideology and his views, and he is not resocialising. Then he must be allowed to serve the full sentence. There is no reason to shorten that sentence by a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u29	Then I hear much more here than this amendment says. Mr Bishop is talking about socialisation, but he is actually talking about suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u30	When I read "if there is a valid suspicion that release will lead to unsafe situations," I associate this with a lack of re-socialization and with the fact that someone will still not take a responsible place in society or that he will disrupt public order. That is the interpretation we are referring to here. I would also like to thank Mrs Swinkels for her question. In the legislative proposal, the government also proposes that in the event of a shortage of places, prisoners should be sent home for a period of up to three months earlier. In other words, the conditional release will go into effect earlier. Before you know it, you won't be in jail at all! To date, no use has been made of the existing legislation. The SGP does not consider it desirable for the law to include an arrangement allowing groups of prisoners to return home early. This would damage confidence in the penalties imposed. That is why we have the amendment to item No. 13 on behalf of Mrs Helder. If capacity problems were to arise, alternative solutions would have to be found. We are thinking, for example, of temporary facilities, as applied by Belgium and Norway, which have or will temporarily accommodate their prisoners in the Netherlands. Finally, I come to the amendment to item No. 14 on community service. The law already lays down rules on the performance of community service. The SGP, like the government, believes that the community service should actually be carried out, preferably as soon as possible after the sentence has been passed. In this legislative proposal, the government proposes a shorter period for the implementation of community service sentences. If it is not met, the community service will cease. The SGP believes that this should be avoided as far as possible. A sentence imposed must indeed be implemented within a reasonable period of time, including the community service. After all, the purpose of imposing a punishment is also a piece of education or socialisation, as it is called neatly. There may sometimes be reasons why it is not possible to enforce the judgment within the legal period. That is why, in addition to the government's proposal, we are proposing an extension scheme. The maximum period thus remains the same as in the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u31	Mr Recourt has a question on the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u32	Would it then be a good idea to extend the deadline, which I believe is now a year and a half? Mr Bishop spoke about shortening, but I am talking about extending for six months. Then it's done and can't be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u33	As far as we are concerned, that would be the next best solution. You want those sentences to be executed as soon as possible after the sentence has been passed. That pressure has to stay in there. Now there may be circumstances which prevent the execution of the judgment within the prescribed time limit. That is why our first preference is to build in an extension option. But if there is a majority to be found to apply the extended deadline as an absolute deadline at once, we are very prepared to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u34	It was, with apologies, a bit of a trick question, because in my memory, that is what the bill says. The big advantage of that is that you've lost those renewal procedures, which take time and where things go wrong. It is therefore one of the examples in the legislative proposal in which simplification is simply achieved. What's the SGP worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u35	If you go to an instance that sits like a spider in the web, I think that way you've already removed a lot of sludge and all kinds of stagnant procedures and stagnant pathways. At least, I hope that is the effect of such a central organisation, which means that you have arranged it within two days, so to speak, and you can also carry it out much easier. So the idea is to ensure that the time limit for the execution of the sentence, which is generally the case, and also for community service penalties, is followed as quickly as possible by the method of judgment and, if that were not possible, a solution by extending the time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u36	I would also like to come back to the amendment to item No. 14, because at first my idea was that community service should be carried out, as I understand Mr Bishop, in any case. But the stick behind the door that is now being proposed is that if that community service is not carried out, the period will not be extended. This will be a little longer than the current practice, but there will be no extension, so no administrative time, but replacement detention will be imposed. My group agrees with that, so we have abandoned the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop on behalf of his group. Can I understand that the SGP would rather have the term extended and that at least that community service is being carried out, or does the SGP agree with my group that community service should simply be carried out and that replacement detention should be in place if this is not done within the time limit proposed by the government here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u37	A community service is imposed because that form of punishment is functional, in that case and for that offender. Once a judge has passed that judgment, you must also continue to assume that the convicted person is most helped by it. I would be very sorry to note that if that sentence is not imposed, nothing will have to happen. Then I could imagine a lot in some form of replacement detention. But I don't think you should go there, because the verdict is community service. That's a government responsibility. Then ensure that it is arranged in such a way that it is also carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u38	Mr Van Oosten. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van Oosten for his excellent report. 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u39	No, on the amendment to item No. 12, with your permission. I have tried to listen very carefully to Mr Bishop, who, in his little debate with Mrs Swinkels, indicated that it was indeed hanged by the person concerned, by the prisoner, who is being released on parole or not. If I have understood Mr Bishop correctly, he is concerned, in particular, about the fear that society will not be able to rely sufficiently on it, leading to disorder of order, social unrest and so on, which will not be the subject of another crime. Do I see that right or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u40	Yes. I think that's a good summary, just thinking from the question of what the purpose of punishment is. This is the task of the government to guarantee order, security and security for everyone in society. If people disrupt that order, create insecurity, then they are punished by the government, with the aim of getting them so far that they realize that this is not possible. But at the time when it appears that, during the execution of the sentence which has been determined in advance, there is no turning point or a growing awareness of the willingness to comply with the demands of society, as far as we are concerned, there is no reduction in punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u41	Then I understand Mr Bishop very well. I would like to ask him, but perhaps he would like to pass that question on to the Minister, to the extent to which his amendment replaces what is contained in the proposed legislative provision, namely that the presence of a repeated risk may be an argument for the authority concerned not to proceed with conditional release. I am just curious about the gap between Mr Bishop's amendment and what the Minister is proposing. Maybe that space isn't there at all, but then I'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u42	I am happy to pass on Mr Van Oosten's question to the govern ment. The question is to what extent the definition in the legislative proposal relates to our amendment. I suspect that the amendment will further broaden the grounds for refusal of conditional release. Thus, the space to allow conditional release is reduced. I'm rounding up. The aim of the bill is fully supported by the SGP. Acceleration and improvement of the procedure are also crucial for us. Effective implementation must be the starting point. The intentions of the bill give us courage in this respect. The number of sentences carried out should also be increased. We are counting on the execution of the judgments and decisions to be taken as soon as possible, as required by the law. The SGP welcomes the fact that the letter of amendment puts the aim of the safety of society first in the implementation of the penalties. In addition, the interests of the victims and the survivors and the re-socialisation of the condemned are objectives which are fully realised. We look forward to the Minister's positive assessment of the amendments we have tabled. Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u43	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u44	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating my new colleague, Mr Swinkels of D66. I look forward to our debates and our cooperation. I hope one thing for Mrs Swinkels, namely that she will deal with some inspiring themes in this Chamber than the one she started her career with. That theme was "woodworm." The VVD in itself looks at the bill quite simply. We are talking here about the enforcement of penalties. I believe that Mrs Swinkels referred to this in her maiden speech, but other colleagues have also done so, perhaps a little irritating. The VVD looks at it as follows. Anyone who is punished deserves that punishment, and that punishment must therefore be enforced. This bill contributes to this. At least the result of the legislative proposal should be to streamline the rules on implementation and to clearly allocate responsibilities. That is what my main question is about. How are we going to organise this bill so that victims can rely on the fact that perpetrators are actually locked up under lock and key as soon as they are convicted, or that they are going to get into community service? What contribution does this bill, ladies and gentlemen, already make to reducing the number of loose and convicted criminals waiting for their punishment to be enforced? In short, how do we prevent this from becoming just a paper exercise? How do we ensure that the law we are dealing with here, which will be dealt with later in the First Chamber and which all kinds of agencies and authorities are working on, actually ensures a safer Netherlands? As far as I am concerned, as I understand from the documents I have just referred to, there is a key position for the CJIB, the programme AICE. Does the CJIB have a sufficiently solid position to ensure that all these organisations are actually going to act on time, that we not only agree on this, but that it is happening, so that this swift execution takes place? I would also ask this because I draw attention from the same documents to the fact that there is in fact no sanction to be imposed, and I would also not know exactly how the authorities concerned, for example in the Public Prosecutor's Office or in the case-law, do they not comply with the deadlines. Can the CJIB, the program AICE, press through in that case? Can it take the authority of the minister or the secretary of state to make sure that execution just happens? That is what we want with each other. Can the Minister promise that in the monitoring announced, we will get a fairly precise feedback on how many times the CJIB has called in vain from the Public Prosecutor's Office or from the justice system because deadlines have not been met or have not been met? I'd like to be able to focus on that from this room. I'm going into the theme of pardon. I understand that an opportunity is being created to honour fines below €340 on request. This could only be discussed if it did not serve a reasonable purpose and effectively replaced the imposition of limitation periods. It would be used very reluctantly and not create a right. Following on from other political groups, I believe that the PVV had asked written questions about this, I would say that the norm should be that everyone should be responsible for their own decisions, even if this is a mistake, and that, as a result, everyone should in principle have to bear the consequences of their decisions. For the sake of the Acts, I would like to hear confirmation in this plenary that there is no customary right arising as a result of exceptional decisions. I have looked carefully at the example cited to illustrate the exceptionalness that may be involved in the granting of pardon. I would like to hear from the Minister how victims are involved in the consideration of whether or not pardon should be honored. Then I'll come to the theme of hostage-taking. Several colleagues have also drawn attention to this. The subject is frequently in the media and the Ombudsman has recently published another report on it. I read in the bill that we believe hostage-taking is not applied if the convicted person makes it plausible that he is not in a position to comply with the obligation to pay. I read that in such a way that it is the intention of the cabinet that the possibility of payment should primarily be demonstrated by the convicted person. That's what my question is about. Will the Minister once again explicitly mark that it is exactly that? Will he say once again that the convicted person must make it plausible that he cannot pay and that it is then the least that can be expected that the convicted person will appear at the hearing where the question is whether he should be held hostage? Does the Minister agree with me? Does the Minister share that if the convicted person does not appear, the burden of proof regarding the payment opportunity cannot suddenly shift to the Public Prosecutor's Office or the CJIB? How does the Minister look at the ruling that the law seems to be interpreted differently and that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the CJIB would stand at the bar to make clear whether persons without a permanent place of residence and residence have sufficient financial resources? I don't think that's the idea. It also seems virtually impossible for the CJIB to do that. After all, if someone is lost, it is rather difficult to demonstrate to what extent that person could be financially at stake. In short, I would like to hear the Minister once again explicitly say that it is an explicit responsibility of the unpayable self, of the person convicted or ordered for the offence he has committed. I will conclude with a question on another subject: conditional release. A lot has already been said about this, so I can be brief about it. I have understood, after some research and following a previous motion of the SGP, that there would be an investigation from the WODC on this subject into the system of conditional release. I am curious to see what this means to have a more substantive discussion on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u45	I'd like to come back to the issue of hostage. I have also raised this myself, and I realise that it will come up again in January when the Secretary of State comes up with a letter on how to deal with it. Mr Van Oosten says that the burden of proof lies with the person who claims not to be able to pay. Shouldn't you, especially in civil proceedings, be able to make the claim more substantial? Shouldn't you be able to tell me why you want to take away someone's greatest asset, his freedom? That's what the government wants. You must have some motivation that goes beyond just the fact that you haven't been paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u46	That motivation lies in the fact that the individual himself has often deliberately chosen to break a standard that we have established with each other in this Chamber. There lies the motivation behind the decision to proceed to that ultimate means of coercion: a hostage situation. I'll tell him you're not just there. Payment terms are now offered by default, you can contact each other, you can talk to each other, etc. At the very end such a coercive measure can indeed be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u47	If Mr Van Oosten says that the removal of liberty is at once driven through red light, then that is not the way I see it. We all note that in principle, deprivation of liberty is a matter for the courts. In the case of minor offences, such as traffic offences, you can be fined. So this has nothing to do with not paying fines and being held hostage at the end of the race to force you to pay that fine. This civil measure goes very far and must sometimes go very far. If you go very far as a government in exceptional cases and the judge hasn't talked about it, you as a government must have a very solid story to ask at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u48	You have that as a government too, because it can actually start with red-driving. It is ordered to do so, then to fail to fulfil the responsibility associated with it and to pay the fine, possibly in two instalments, etc. Then it also works in civil law so that this can lead to a hostage situation. I would be a little sad if, for the sake of all sorts of arguments, that possibility were to be put to an end. Moreover, I would find it wrong if we demanded this from the CJIB and the Public Prosecutor's Office if someone really can't afford it. I think that responsibility lies with the person concerned, and I also read it in the law and ask for confirmation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Van Oosten. This brings to an end the first term of office. The Minister wants to prepare himself for his answer. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u50	Mr. Chairman. May I begin by congratulating Mrs Swinkels of the D66 Group on behalf of the government on her maiden speech? I know from my own experience how special it is to be allowed to do that and how nice it is not to be interrupted once in your career in this room. I wish Mrs Swinkels that this will not be the case in all future speeches, that she will be interrupted. That is really the nice debate we would like to see in this Chamber. I handed her a keychain from the department. It is a crystal keychain with the image of Lady Justitia in it. If you press a button, Mrs. Swinkels will demonstrate that now, too, light is coming out. The idea behind it is that Lady Justice always brings relief. I think this light will bring Mrs Swinkel's light when she sits behind her desk in the middle of the night to prepare a debate. That's what I wish her. We must also note that it is very sad that Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group cannot be here tonight because of the birth of his undoubtedly beautiful son Tobias. On behalf of the government, too, I warmly congratulate him and the mother of young Tobias on his birth. I hope Tobias will be able to enjoy all the beauty he is offered in our country, such as education. I hope, on behalf of the government, that he will develop independently, that he will seize these opportunities and that, using his full responsibility, he will become a welcome asset for the liberal society that we have in the Netherlands. I hope he stays far from tomatoes, because tomatoes stain and those stains generally do not come out. Then, of course, I have Mrs Van Toorenburg, who has returned for the first time today in the warm bosom of the spokesmen of Security and Justice. I would like to say to her: welcome home! We are talking today about a major legislative proposal. A number of Members have rightly pointed that out. The draft law on the review of enforcement of criminal judgments re-establishes the criminal justice system for the enforcement of criminal decisions as a whole in a new Book 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The legislative proposal is thus an important part of the first tranche of the larger operation of modernising the Code of Criminal Procedure, also characterized by the abbreviation VPS (Strengthening performance criminal justice chain), on which I recently sent the Chamber the so-called contour note. That was this week, I hear from Mr Van Oosten. The legislative proposal is important for the quality of legislation and for improving the implementation of imposed penalties and measures. It has rightly been pointed out by a number of Members that there has been a great deal of improvement in the criminal justice chain and in its implementation, also in the light of the reports we have. The report of the General Court has been mentioned, but there are many more examples. First of all, we have chosen to create a single code of conduct, a code of conduct which is modern and easily readable and which codifies what has been created in recent years by justice and use. At the same time, we have also chosen to add a change of principle which provides that the responsibility for implementation will shift from the Public Prosecutor to the Minister. For me personally, it is also very special that this is also a challenge in relation to the questions put to me this evening, namely that the bill is precisely at the intersection of my portfolio as Minister and the Secretary of State's portfolio. But, Mr President, you have addressed me to Secretary of State before today, and I have also replaced the Secretary of State before. On that point, too, I feel that I am in the right place here, but it does mean that a number of subjects that have been raised here are somewhat alien parts for me in this function. That makes the challenge for this debate tonight all the more enjoyable. That is why I am very much looking forward to it. As far as legislation is concerned, the current system of enforcement was fragmented over the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Law. The proposed new regime brings together the procedures in a single code, standardises different procedures and modernises the language used. This makes the scheme more accessible and easier for citizens and professionals. The consultative bodies, as well as the Advisory Section of the Council of State, unanimously welcomed the systematic and logical approach chosen in the legislative proposal. It follows the various types of sanctions to be implemented, i.e. protective sanctions, restrictions on freedom, financial sanctions and other sanctions. However, the legislative proposal does, of course, cover more than just a legislative operation. It also contributes to improving enforcement as a final stage of the criminal proceedings. The objectives set for implementation are to ensure that the sanctions imposed are implemented quickly and effectively, and that the authorities concerned are informed in a timely and complete manner so that they can carry out their tasks properly. A number of Members have rightly referred to a number of investigations, for example the investigation of the Hoekstra Committee. The reason for setting up that committee was indeed appalling. Such studies show that a number of things really need to be organised much better and that these tasks also need to be carried out better. In this context, it is proposed that the Minister of Security and Justice is directly responsible for the enforcement of criminal decisions and the financial penalties imposed under the Law on Administrative Enforcement of Traffic Rules. In practical terms, my direct responsibility also takes shape, inter alia, through the Administrative and Information Centre for the Executive Chain, which was launched on 1 January 2014. I hope I pronounce the abbreviation right. This section of the CJIB service will eventually route all criminal decisions, as it is called. This means that the Public Prosecutor's Office will issue all the decisions to be implemented to the AICE, after which, in my name, they will give the necessary orders to the implementing authorities. This will give the AICE a complete view of the implementation of sanctions, including at the level of the individual concerned. This makes it possible to implement sanctions more specifically. In order to give a good picture to the Chamber, I would just like to outline that it will not be the case that, once the bill has been passed, the day after, or shortly after, the entire transition has taken place. The implementation will take three to five years. This also guarantees that this will be done carefully. The programme that is working on the implementation of the new draft, the Criminal Decisions Implementation Chain (USB) programme, provides a strong impetus for implementation and for more central guidance from the department on the results to be achieved. I will then inform the Chamber annually about the achievement of the goals set for the removal of liberty. The Minister is therefore directly responsible for implementation on the basis of this bill. I have great support for this with many Members of the Chamber. However, the Public Prosecutor's Office also carries out enforcement tasks. The draft law was, of course, discussed in detail with the Public Prosecutor's Office. This has led to a clear distribution of roles in the future situation. The Public Prosecutor's Office retains his magistral role in bringing cases to the criminal court and remains responsible for setting conditions for conditional release and for monitoring compliance with conditions. The Public Prosecutor's Office also has the legal power to revoke its own decisions, criminal decisions and Wav decisions, including during enforcement. The Public Prosecutor's Office will also have a new general advisory capacity for the enforcement of custodial sentences. For its own and judicial decisions, the Public Prosecutor may influence enforcement by speeding up or delaying it. Mr Bishop also made a comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u51	I have gone into the question of what this centre actually looks like. I did indeed join the USB program. However, I saw that this is quite an "ICT project with the government" and that it has a number of challenges. It is also in progress. Can the Minister give the Chamber the assurance that this ICT project will be brought to a successful conclusion in the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u52	I know Mrs Van Toorenburg as a Member of Parliament with high ambitions. That also proves this question. She asks me to give certainty about an ICT project. Many of my predecessors, and not so long ago the Elias Commission, have found that you are wise not to make statements about ICT projects in the government, or at least not to give any certainty about their outcome. We have, of course, learned a great deal about this in recent years, also thanks to the Elias Committee. We have learned a lot about how to successfully design such an ICT project. For AICE, this means that they have been working there since 2014 and that they have gained experience with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u53	Can we agree with the Minister that he is going to lead all his colleagues, who often let it happen that after a broadcast of Newshour or RTL or a Telegraaf article we had to discuss the fact that ICT had stalled? Will he be the one who informs the Chamber when we hear that there are kinks coming in, so that we do not have to ask the Minister here: what the hell happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u54	That's my endeavor. I have already put this into practice when I was confronted with ICT setbacks in the National Police. I informed the Chamber immediately, not only in the debate but also in writing. That is my starting point. I would like to take this heart cry from Mrs Van Toorenburg to heart. I would like to stress that neither I nor the Public Prosecutor's Office can dismiss or impose sanctions imposed by the courts for a period of limitation. In order to stop the implementation where it no longer serves any purpose, a pardon will have to be requested. Mr Van Oosten asked questions about this. There is one exception: the bill introduces a power for the Minister to stop the enforcement of penalties for which no pardon is possible. This has become the so-called hardness clause for fines below €340. For that there is no possibility of pardon. However, we would like to make provision for the possibility of a waiver of the fine if it proves that there are serious reasons for doing so. I shall come back to that in a moment in response to Mr Van Oosten's question. What is not part of the system of implementation but is related to it and is amended in the legislative proposal is the system of notification of judicial notices, the so-called service system. This legislative proposal will make it possible to make legal communications electronically. I shall come back to this in more detail, including the Van Toorenburg amendment on the subject. I have one, two, three, four, five, six topics I would like to discuss with the Chamber. Six cubes, my predecessor would have said. Then I come to the assessment of the amendments. I think it would be useful for me to discuss them before the second term of your Chamber. The first is the responsibility of the Minister of Security and Justice. The second block is conditional release, focusing in particular on the SGP Group. Then I come to Mrs Helder, who talked about electronic service. Then I come to the terms 'hostage', 'term payments' and'report'. I don't understand exactly which report, but I'll get back to you in a minute. Then the pace of implementation follows. I've already said something about that, but I'll deepen it even more. Then I have a residual category of questions, including Mr Van Oosten's question on the system of pardon. And then I come to the amendments. Questions have been asked about the responsibility of the Minister for Security and Justice by Mrs Swinkels, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Recourt and Mrs Kooiman. These questions stem from the letter from the Council of Criminal Law and Youth Protection in which it asked: isn't there some kind of risk of political influence as that responsibility for the law shifts from the Public Prosecutor to the Minister? The answer is that we do not assume that, because the guarantee there is is the so-called execution obligation. It is not up to the Minister to make choices regarding the execution of sentences. The Minister is obliged to carry out all the penalties imposed by the judge. There is no room for amendment of the decision or the possibility for the administration not to implement a sentence in whole or in part. The order for enforcement is therefore carried out strictly and in the most efficient manner in accordance with the judgment of the court or the criminal order of the Public Prosecutor. In theory, I could fear political influence in large, controversial cases. The legislative proposal does not change the current powers and division of tasks between the Public Prosecutor and the Minister when it comes to far-reaching decisions, such as deprivation of liberty sanctions. A number of members referred to the Volkert van der G. case. Maybe it is a good thing that I say something about the substance of this. In this case, a legal choice has been made to grant a certain power to the State Secretary under a number of conditions. Basically, this power is vested in the director of the penitentiary institution, as Mrs Van Toorenburg can confirm. Under certain circumstances, that power is transferred to the State Secretary for Security and Justice or to the person responsible for the prison system. That was the Secretary of State. That has been explicitly chosen. If you make that choice in the law, and the competence, lays down the power to make decisions with a political office holder, it is logical that that political office holder should be able to make his political judgment into that. He'll do it in full disclosure. Next, it is up to the court, in this case the RSJ, to determine whether that jurisdiction has been properly used. This is how Volkert van der G. has done and we all know the outcome. There is therefore a judicial review of the powers conferred on the State Secretary by law. That is a completely different situation than when, as Minister of Security and Justice, you have responsibility for implementation when you have no choice. You have no option to choose whether or not you're going to execute a sentence. The task is: to execute in the most efficient way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u55	Does the Minister remember that Volkert van der G. was about some sort of intermediate step? It was about the leave prior to a conditional release. Actually, that's kind of a start-up period. What could have happened in the political debate, according to the Minister, if Volkert van der G was not concerned with that intermediate step but simply with conditional release? Does he think that there would have been no political debate about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u56	No, but in the case of conditional release, there is another legislation that also allows for a trade-off. In my view, this has also been the subject of a debate here in the Chamber. That's what it's meant for. This is about the implementation of sanctions imposed. How are they implemented? The concern I had with the members of the Chamber was that there could be political influence if it became a direct responsibility of the Minister. I take that concern away by indicating that there is no choice. The Minister, I, must do what the judge has ruled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u57	What if we don't talk about Volkert van der G, but about a sex offender who walks free? The Minister is aware of the social turmoil in this regard. The Minister is ultimately responsible for conditional release. You wouldn't want to avoid the political debate about that, would you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u58	No, but you'll never stop it. In the present situation too, I should like to take the example of Volkert van der G. We have had a political debate on this subject. In fact, part of the Chamber felt that the Minister could be asked how he makes the assessment which was laid down by law with him. That's the way it's gonna be in the future. If execution cases do not go as they should go, a political debate will follow, but that is what is happening now. As a minister in the current situation, I am also responsible and accountable to the Public Prosecutor's Office. As the Chamber knows, I even have a formal designation right in the current situation. As a minister, you generally make little use of this, but there could also be political influence. It was explicitly chosen by the Second and First Chambers by law to create that possibility, but with guarantees. That's the way it is in this case. The responsibility of the D.A., for which I was already responsible, is shifted directly to the Ministry. Of course, you will be accountable for that responsibility when it is necessary. The political influence does not exist because there is an execution obligation which the Minister simply has to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u59	What the Chamber wants to debate is not up to the Minister. It's up to him to send in on those extra powers he's getting around execution. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he is not going to direct on individual matters, but on policy? For example, is he going to bring a certain percentage of things that go wrong back to zero? My concern is precisely with the Minister's individual direction and with the point that we as a Chamber are going to talk about individual matters. I find it unfortunate to talk about individual matters as a Chamber, and I find it unfortunate that the Minister sends on individual matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u60	There's two things I need to be clear about. Firstly, the Chamber is indeed discussing the issues it wishes to discuss with the Minister. I cannot make any announcements about this, and I will not judge it either. If the Chamber asks me to come, I'll come. The same goes for all my colleagues. Secondly, in a general sense, I do not see any reason for individual control. However, we opt for a personal approach, as can be seen in the pieces, but that is something else. We want to do justice to the interests of the individual, including in the implementation. That's the personal approach. That does not mean, however, that I am going to send them. This is a policy direction, with implementation taking into account the interests of the individual. I think I understand Mr Recourt correctly on this point and that this is also the starting point laid down in the law. Mrs Swinkels, in her excellent maiden speech in this context, asked whether it was not possible to have that central direction taken by the Public Prosecutor's Office. She asked whether that would not be more legally purer. I do not see any legal objections to the execution of a criminal decision by the board. It is a matter of firm decisions by the judge or the public prosecutor who must be implemented in the most effective way. The implementation by my executive services, under my direct responsibility, provides the best response to the identified shortcomings of complexity, clarity and limited interlinkage in the chain. We know those facts. In this context, I would like to refer to a report by the Court of Auditors, which was also cited by Mrs Van Toorenburg. It is precisely in that report of the General Court that it is recommended that this central direction be developed. We have tightened it even more, because we do not think it went far enough. Implementation is mainly an administrative task for the Public Prosecutor's Office. This task remains under-exposed to the other tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the investigation and prosecution. As a result, the management of the implementation by the Office is not sufficiently completed. It's a bit of an alien part of the public prosecutor's office. Nor is it optimally achieved by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It can be optimally achieved by an implementing body, such as the CJIB, which is well equipped for the major administrative tasks involved. However, the Public Prosecutor retains an important role in enforcement. The D.A. is and will remain exclusively responsible for the decisions to be implemented. Only the D.A. can seek a new judicial judgment during enforcement and only the D.A. can determine the conditions for conditional release. However, the shift of responsibility gives the Public Prosecutor the opportunity to focus more on his core tasks, i.e. detection and prosecution. That is also recognised by the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u61	The Minister reiterated that the prosecution remains responsible for this, for that and he mentioned four tasks. I wonder why this responsibility is being removed from the D.A.'s office. The recommendation of the General Court was that it should be improved and that the central direction should be strengthened, but not that it should be removed from the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u62	No, but we did choose it for good reasons. I've already explained it, and I won't repeat it. We have seen where we can best invest that task that is foreign to the public attorney's office. We have experience that it has been working excellently at the CJIB for years and that it, in combination with AICE, which has been active since 2014, can do that task in a very efficient central way, so that we can remove the raven edges we have seen in recent years and which we have had a lot of problems with. That is the thrust of this change of law. It is therefore not surprising that on this point all the opinions are positive, because everyone sees that the result of the law is logical and clear. It's much better in construction than what we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u63	Then perhaps I should just remind the Minister of my question. He says he's been looking at what's best. Has it actually been investigated whether it could be done better with the D.A.'s office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u64	I do not know whether a separate investigation has been carried out, but it is a question of what the task of the prosecution is. The D.A.'s job is to track and prosecute in a well streamlined process without errors. The execution of criminal decisions is not a core task of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is a choice to do so, but the question is whether it is a logical part of the public prosecutor's duties. That's what we got out of with the D.A.'s office. The prosecution agrees that this is not really the case and that it is much better to organise implementation in one central place, where it is best to do so, so that the public prosecutor can concentrate on the tasks that we all consider so important, namely detection and prosecution and the conduct of investigations. That is quite different from the execution of a judicial decision. Mrs Swinkels also asked whether the conversion of community service to replacement detention remains a responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Yeah, that's right. It is the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor to judge whether the community service has been properly performed and, if not, whether the conversion to replacement detention should be carried out. This is reflected in Article 6.3.3. of the new proposed code of conduct. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked the same question as Mr Recourt about individual interference. I've already answered that. Ms Kooiman asked why the advice of the judge or the Public Prosecutor's Office is not binding. The purpose of the court's and the public prosecutor's advice is to enable them to express their views on the manner in which they wish to be enforced. This may include, for example, a particular location for the execution of a custodial sentence or a given moment. The starting point is that these opinions are followed by the authorities responsible for the effective enforcement of the sentence, but this is not always possible. Therefore, there must be a moment of choice, for example because a specific community service is not available or because the establishment mentioned in the opinion is already closed, or because there is no place at that time. I have heard from many Members that they want a penalty to be given at the required speed. This requires that we be able to put the opinion aside, but that is a good story. Mrs Swinkels of the D66 Group and Mr Recourt of the PvdA Group have asked if I can handle the new tasks. They asked: is the Minister equipped to bear the new direct responsibility? I have said that central control of the enforcement of penalties is not at present being optimally achieved by the prosecution, because this administrative task, as I have also explained to Mrs Swinkels, is under-exposed in relation to the core tasks of detection and prosecution. The CJIB department is, as has been shown in recent years, well equipped for large administrative tasks. This is also evident in the current situation, as the Public Prosecutor's Office has for this reason already transferred a lot of execution tasks to the CJIB. The direction of implementation is strengthened by the combination of management and policy responsibility under one director-general of my ministry, who can act as a chain director immediately. The said Director-General presides over the so-called "Top Council execution." In these consultations and other consultations in which all organisations in the criminal justice chain participate at operational, tactical and strategic level, cooperation in the implementation chain is aligned. That means I don't see the risk of it getting too much. Moreover, this will be under the supervision of our excellent Secretary of State. I now come to the points on conditional release. First of all, let me say to Mr Bishop that I know the SGP as a principled party. On the subject of conditional release, that party also appears to be in the competition in principle. We have already danced more or less ritually this fundamental competition. That's what we're gonna do today. The SGP Group is not in favour of conditional release, and I am on behalf of the government. I have a very simple argument for that. We stand for two things in our society. First of all, there are punishments for retribution. Secondly, there are punishments to ensure that people can resocialise and return to society in a good, sensible way. In the future, moreover, we will have to make enormous progress in this area. We all agree on that. The essence of the matter is that for a prisoner who will be the example in an amendment for a number of years has not been able to enjoy normal daylight for two years, the transition from prison to freedom is enormous. Mrs. Van Toorenburg can confirm this, as former prison director. Because this transition is so great, we have long had the system of conditional release. This brings advantages which I have been able to explain to Mr Bishop, Mr Van der Staaij. The advantage of this is that under the conditions under which that release takes place, you can do justice to the interests of victims, to the interests of survivors, to the interests of society. You can also use area bans. In the context of jihadism, a deradicalisation programme may be mandatory, as it is a condition for conditional release. All these possibilities are there. But the responsibility for this lies and remains with the Public Prosecutor's Office. As a result, we have much more control over such a prisoner in the interests of society and the victims than we would have if someone were to lose their lives. The SGP Group is in principle opposed to conditional release. All the proposals that she makes in this context mean that we lose control of the prisoners. In bad Dutch, a coldturkey situation arises between the opening of the prison door and the end of the detention. After that, there is no possibility of monitoring, monitoring or anything else. However, we want this possibility of monitoring to remain. For this reason, if the law is successful, long-term supervision will soon be introduced. The SGP Group and the Cabinet have a fundamental difference of opinion on this point. Therefore, I will have to advise against the amendments to affect conditional release on the basis of the different principles. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u65	At the risk of the Minister finding the SGP somewhat less fundamental than he has just described, I would like to comment on this. The SGP is not so much against any form of conditional release, but the difference lies in the conditions under which this happens. The SGP considers that this cannot be the case unless the person concerned clearly demonstrates that he or she is worth the risk. In our view, the policy so far assumes too much that this is self-evident and that it has become a customary right. Even if someone in no way shows any repentance or sense of guilt, he or she is entitled to this. It's automatic. This ultimately does not do justice to the case and to the punishment that has been imposed. After all, that has nothing to do with socialisation. Suppose someone was convicted of causing a fatal accident under the influence of drink, with a ban on driving a car. It can't be true that this person is obviously released after two thirds of the time, when he doesn't give a signal that he realizes what went wrong? That is our point of criticism. In addition, we have the question of whether it should be a third of the penalty period. That could also be 20%. Then you can also work on resocialization. Thus, the instrument as such does not reject the SGP in principle, but rather the way in which it is currently handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u66	I am glad that at least there is a shift in the position of the SGP. In my opinion, Mr Van der Staaij has advocated the complete abolition of early release. In my view, he did so both in an amendment and in motions for resolutions. I still see him, I think during the debate on Van der G. I may be wrong, because I'm not ready, but I think I am. So I welcome the movement that Mr Bishop is putting in place. I appreciate that. However, I think that the vulnerability of his question lies precisely in the point he is touching, namely guilt or repentance. How do you test that? Who can see that it's really guilt or real repentance? If the condition becomes that someone must show a sense of guilt or have repented, then within 24 hours all prisoners of the Netherlands, and that is about 9,000, have written a letter that they have full sense of guilt, that they are aware of it and that they have repented. Of course, that's exactly what you shouldn't want. In this conditional release, you must have specific conditions imposed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, which are aligned with the victims, as we have discussed here a long time ago, and do justice to society and to the interests of victims and survivors. In this way, socialisation and the interests of society can be guaranteed. I think this is still a very good system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u67	On the first point: I do not know how the discussion with the SGP went before I replaced Kees van der Staaij from time to time. However, I remember that the issue of conditional release was also raised when I replaced him about a year ago. At that time, I spoke along the same lines as I did just now. In the conditions that someone has to comply with, he's in trouble. What justifies the instrument of conditional release? I just heard the ruler say it's an instrument to help resocialize the prisoner. If that doesn't prove to be true, isn't it an instrument that's serving resocializing? With the way in which the conditional release is currently being handled, we are on the wrong path. It's become customary law. The instrument no longer serves the purpose for which it was designed. In itself, we like to think about how we can shape this. I'd like to get the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u68	I understand the point. I understand Mr Bishop's concern. However, it is not the only purpose. The conditional release also offers the opportunity to do justice to the interests of victims and survivors. It offers the opportunity to force people into a program, or, as I have already written or will write in a letter to the Chamber, to force people to follow deradicalisation programmes. You don't have all those possibilities if you don't offer the people involved the possibility of conditional release. No matter how you turn or turn it, from all aspects and points of view, conditional release has great advantages over the loss of release. However, this does not mean that the law does not provide for the possibility of not allowing that conditional release. Mr Bishop is right about that; he knows that. That is an existing legislation. I shall come back to that later on when his amendment is being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u69	May I post a follow-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u70	If you do not repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u71	I am sorry that the govern ment does not represent the issue well. He's suggesting that the SGP insists that that instrument should be removed. No, the core of the story is that the instrument has to be used differently. Hence the summary: it should not be yes, unless it is, but no, unless it is serviceable to the resocialization process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u72	You'd like the Minister to respond to that: no, unless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u73	My argument is that the balance is the same, because the system we now have also provides for the possibility of not doing so. If there's recidivism, that's what the law says, you have the ability not to allow the parole to take place. That is precisely why I will say later on from the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop that it is superfluous, because the legal system already provides for it. I'll come back to that later. In this context, Mr Van Oosten asked about the WODC investigation. The next situation is happening. In March 2014, the then Secretary of State promised in the consultation on the prison system that he was willing to look at possibilities to link the so-called unwanted red behaviour in the p.i., which is part of the program of PhD and demolishing, to conditional release. That is more or less the point Mr Bishop is referring to. The Secretary of State said at the time that it was complicated, because the criteria for red behaviour in the system of promotion and degradation are not the same as those laid down in the legislation which refers to the repeated serious misconduct and the repeatedly imposed disciplinary measures affecting conditional release. So there's a difference. For this reason, the WODC investigation has not yet started. First, the system of promotion and degradation must be evaluated. In the course of next year, it will be considered when this evaluation can best be carried out. It's under the Secretary of State. He will report to the Chamber in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u74	So the WODC investigation hasn't started yet, but I'm assuming it will. It's not like it could be that it's no longer meant to be? Frankly, I have aligned my contribution on this, assuming that the commitment is respected, and so we can discuss the VU system or the red system, as the Minister calls it, on the basis of the findings of that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u75	I remember that debate. I believe that I myself spoke on behalf of Mr Van Oosten's group. This has indeed been the subject of discussion. The idea is that the system of promotion and degradation will first be evaluated to see if it provides sufficient basis to ask the WODC to draw any consequences. Both are therefore being done, but the evaluation of the system of promotion and degradation has only been under way for one and a half to two years. As far as I know, the results of this evaluation are not foreseen until next year. Perhaps I could give Mr van Oosten a few more written information on this particular point before the vote on this bill, so that he knows where he is going. I come to electronic service. Mrs Helder asked whether the Minister did not expect any unnecessary delay because, first of all, electronic and in the event of no response, it was meant on paper. I don't expect that delay. Electronic service shall be provided if there is sufficient time for access to the documents. Otherwise it will not be offered. Therefore, electronic service will not be requested if a service in person is prescribed by law, the hearing can only proceed if service has been effected and urgent consideration is sought. In such cases, even the police can be used to serve the summons or summons in person in good time. So there's an outlet to control that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u76	I have a question about electronic meaning. I think this is a missed opportunity. I had hoped that the digital world would be so far, that it wouldn't matter so much whether you're at the door and ringing, or whether you're doing it electronically: ringing the bell electronically and establishing identity electronically. Do I have to see it now that we're just not ready for that and we're going to see if we can actually do that in about five years? Or is there really a structural problem under which we cannot make that possible in the coming decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u77	I think I remember, but what I am saying now is a risk that this has also been a topic in the debate with my colleague Mr Plasterk on the eID, the successor to the DigiD. There is also the element of service. My belief is that there are still too few guarantees to be able to do so in a sensible and good way. There is no system yet, no system yet, that can do this waterproof, careful and without faults. That's why you're still dependent on old-fashioned service. I hope that situation does not continue for five years. That kind of development is happening very quickly. At the moment that's my experience, but I'll check it out just to be sure to minimize the risk that I don't have that very sharp. If this is not the case, I will mention it in the same letter as I promised Mr Van Oosten. However, I do not think that there is at the moment a definitive system that makes it impossible to make mistakes in electronic service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u78	That is good to hear; in a sense there is a commitment in that. However, I would like to ask that, at least in the course of the review of this law, electronic service be explicitly mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u79	I'd like to put it another way. At the moment when there is a system which is convinced that this can be done electronically for public authorities, especially in matters such as the service of judgments and the service of sanctions, I dare say to Mr Recourt that we will proceed with this as soon as possible. For the simple reason that this will undoubtedly remove an enormous amount of administrative burdens. If that system is there and if it is reliable and functioning, the government will take that step without any doubt, but not as the first customer. I'll just say that just in case. Then I come to the elements associated with traffic fines and the Law Mulder. Some important questions have been asked about the hostage situation in particular. It's good to get one more point straight. The debate gave the impression that it was possible to take hostage without judicial intervention. That is a good proposal; Mr Recourt in particular made that suggestion. I am also prepared to consider favourably an amendment from the PvdA Group. However, I do not think it is sensible and Mr Recourt did not mean it either. It is still the case that the Public Prosecutor's Office, after hearing the CJIB, brings an action for hostage to the court and that the judge decides. All these thousands of hostage-takings in the Netherlands are handed down by judges because judges feel that this should be done. The case-law Council has once again said something about this to its own constituents. I'd like to leave that to them. The essence is that it has always been and will remain a judicial decision. Moreover, this also has to do with the ECHR, because you cannot deprive a person of his freedom without a judicial decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u80	I have said that some criticism is possible in the courts too. I just said it goes by the judge. But of course it is not the judge who ultimately imposes the hostage taking on his own initiative or similar to a criminal procedure; it is more of a judge's test. It is the board that wants to do it and it is the judge that says: have the conditions been respected? Is it proportionate? That is an essentially different test from that of the judge who has to consider whether he is imposing a year or two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u81	I agree with Mr Recourt, but for a moment the suggestion was raised as if this would also be considered in administration. That is not the case. It's the judge who's gonna have to make that judgment eventually. I should like to return to the issue of electronic service for the sake of clarity. It is now the case that electronic service, according to the current legislative proposal, is dependent on the consent of the person concerned. If it agrees, electronic service shall be effected. If they don't, there's just got to be a service in person. The security of the electronic service system as we have now foreseen is guaranteed. I'm just gonna say that for the record. Mrs. Kooiman asked for replacement detention at traffic fines. For offences which, if I am not mistaken, are dealt with under the Mulder Act, only one type of sanction can be imposed, namely the payment of a sum of money. Replacement detention would involve the conversion of that financial sanction to a liberty-taking sanction. The hostage situation, as Mrs Kooiman suggests, which is being applied on the orders of a judge, other than the replacement detention, is not a punishment but a means of coercion to enforce that payment. Hosteling is of course the last option if after the entire collection process has still not been paid. Perhaps it is a good thing that I should also note here, because no one has said that there is one very simple solution to escape hostage and traffic fines. It's very obvious, but it seems a bit like it's sometimes forgotten. That is simply that everyone abides by the rules. If you have three mopeds, pay three road taxes for that, or registration fees, or how it goes with a moped, I don't know about that, and then you're going to make those three mopeds into one moped, then it's perfectly logical that you unsubscribe two of the three mopeds because they no longer exist. If you don't, you might get in trouble. If you drive on a road where the speed thanks to this cabinet is 130 km/h at 140 or 150 km/h, you will get a traffic ticket and you will have to pay it. If you don't want to, you can't drive too fast. That is one of the essentials of this debate. No one who abides by the rules can be held hostage. It sometimes seems as if a bit of the picture is emerging that it is awfully pathetic that you should be held hostage because you have not paid your traffic ticket. Then I'd say, "Don't commit traffic violations, you'd never be held hostage." And if you're already committing a traffic violation, just pay the fine. If you do that in time, you won't be confronted with increases. Just like all the other people who pay those traffic tickets on time and never face increases. Moreover, we agree that I have heard several spokesmen say that, of course, people who do everything in their power to pay their fine should not be held hostage. Of these, the State Secretary announced that various measures were being taken to better assess the payment possibilities of those concerned and thus only to seek hostageage from the courts where this is really necessary. It also extends the possibilities to accommodate those who want to but cannot pay. Mr Recourt also asked for this. For example, from 1 July 2015, it is already possible to pay these sanctions in instalments from €225. That is also the starting point of the scheme that this hostage situation should really be an ultimatum remedium. That is why this cannot become a liberty-taking sanction. Mrs Kooiman asked what the idea was behind the increases for non-payment of a traffic ticket. The starting point is that there is a strong incentive for an increase. That increase is fixed at 50% and then 100%. I note that the Chamber has also agreed to this. In general, this also appears to provide a very serious incentive for most people. Mrs Kooiman also asked why the increase system of unpaid traffic fines in criminal law is not being aligned. Traffic fines will not be increased for nothing if they are not paid. The current congestion system for traffic fines provides an incentive to pay them on time. Another important point is that changes should not lead to a gap in the budget, as I pointed out during the budget debate. I will also refer to the amendment tabled by Mrs Kooiman, which does not include the corresponding coverage. Mrs Kooiman then asked whether we could not go to income-dependent traffic fines. There is just a very simple but also important problem. By the way, I will come with a letter to your Chamber about the traffic penalty system. I have already promised this to the spokesmen of both the VVD and the PvdA groups at the last general discussion on road safety that I was allowed to attend. Of course, the CJIB has no insight into the income of those involved. This would also have a rather violent impact on people's privacy. Therefore, I see no reason to organise that the CJIB will have access to it and then have to apply some sort of income truffle. The Secretary of State is, of course, following closely the effects of the measures taken and also having regard to the points raised by Mrs Kooiman. I have one more question from Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u82	Mrs. Kooiman wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u83	I have one more question for Mrs Kooiman to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u84	Then let's finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u85	That is why the limit of €225 was chosen. In 2014, it was examined whether it would be desirable for traffic fines to be paid in instalments and, if so, under what conditions. This study has shown that fines from €225 are particularly needed to pay them in instalments. In addition, this is in line with the border which is also used in criminal law. At that point, the tie-up is there. For this reason, the amount of €225 has been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u86	I get all the answers to questions I haven't asked. For example, I did not say that we are in favour of income-dependent fines. I didn't say that at all. However, I asked a question about that limit of €225. I asked if the Minister could try to compare it with the legal aid financed. If you want to appeal to that, all you have to do is show how much income you have. For traffic fines, however, you have to submit a whole laundry list of items to be eligible for customisation. I merely ask the Minister to compare with the legal aid that has been financed, so that more can be done about tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u87	That's a crazy equation. The purpose of the legal aid financed is to enable people to defend themselves or to guarantee them access to justice. That is different from a sanction that people get because they have committed an offence or perhaps even a crime. I don't think those two things can be compared. Traffic fines and fines are only given to people who do not follow the rules. This is not comparable to legal aid, in which people appeal to the courts because they feel that they are being harmed in their interests. I do not see the comparison that the SP fraction draws at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u88	It would be a good thing if the Minister of State and the Secretary of State were to speak to the people in prison on this subject. Not everyone chooses this. People often want to pay, but they can't pay. That's the group we're talking about. Let us be clear that some people are aware that they have committed an offence and that they want to pay the fine imposed on them, but that they simply cannot do so. For that group, I would like to make it easier to do that customization. For a single welfare mother, €225 is a quarter of her income. That is why I would like the Minister to look closely at tailor-made work for that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u89	I think I have said exactly what the policy is from 1 July 2015. I'm not gonna repeat that. The Secretary of State has already informed the Chamber in detail. That's being changed, too. The single welfare mother in Mrs Kooiman's example is apparently able to get a traffic fine of €225. Mrs Kooiman also knows that you have to drive pretty fast for that. If she speaks to this welfare mother again, she must say to her that she too must simply abide by the rules, because that way she will not have any problem with any fine. There will be customization, as I explained in detail. I don't suppose I need to explain that to Mrs Kooiman again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u90	Mrs. Kooiman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u91	Then I'm just gonna try another question, if the Minister is gonna stick around very rigidly. That question is about the replacement custody. Why can you, if you're fined for breaking a flash pole, get replacement custody if you don't pay the fine, when if you're flashed by that pole and you're fined for a traffic ticket, you can't get replacement custody? Can the Minister ensure that matters are levelled on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u92	I've just answered that in detail. I'm fine with repeating that, but I'm not gonna do that. I refer Mrs Kooiman to the Acts. I have just explained in detail the difference between those two. I'm not gonna do that again. Mr Van Oosten has asked whether I can highlight that it is up to the sentenced person to make it plausible that he cannot pay before taking hostage and whether I would like to bring this point to the attention of the Court of Justice. I recognize, of course, the points raised by Mr Van Oosten. Both criminal law and sanctions under the Mulder Act are subject to the payment of sanctions and, in principle, it is up to the data subject himself to declare payment powerlessness. This is not a matter of customary law or standard regulation, because of the nature of the sanction. I've already stressed a few times that you don't get those fines just like that. The Secretary of State will respond to the National Ombudsman's report on hostage taking by January 2016, to which Mr Van Oosten and others have referred. He will then also address the points raised, including the point made by Mrs Helder about the appearance at the plenary session. That is always a recurring theme in all the letters we send to the Chamber at the request of Mrs Helder. But who knows, the keeper might win again someday. Mr Recourt has actually asked for the opposite, namely whether sufficient care is being taken in presenting the claims for hostage. I can only answer that in the affirmative. The D.A. and the CJIB started to assess the hostage situation in February, and to provide a much better justification for the claim. That is one of the points that the Secretary of State has also reported to the Chamber. This is based on the assumption that only a claim is submitted to the court for persons who wish but cannot pay. Moreover, this has led to the submission of a very limited number of claims since then, so that huge increase in claims has declined. Mr Recourt has also asked for customisation. The answer to this is that the investigation, which I referred to in reply to Mrs Kooiman, has shown that there is a particular need to be able to pay fines from €225 or more in instalments. For those with a fine below €225, it is already possible to reach an agreement through the debt relief. There is therefore a possibility for this too, but the person concerned will have to go to debt relief. Then I come to the implementation of the bill. Mr Van Oosten asked how this bill is going to help victims to trust that perpetrators will be locked up as soon as they are convicted or start community service. The main objective of the present legislative proposal and the corresponding new draft of the implementation chain is to speed up and ensure the implementation of criminal decisions, with good information for the partners concerned. To this end, I propose that the responsibility for implementation be shifted from the prosecutor to the minister. There the operational chain management is possible and necessary. That's why we set up the AICE. The AICE will do so in all areas, with all criminal decisions. The bill states that both the case-law and the Public Prosecutor's Office have a period of 14 days for the release and presentation of that criminal judgment. So there's that gear in there. This deadline is shorter than the current deadline and should help to speed up implementation. An acceleration of implementation is also the fact that the new method means that 10% more convicts are subject to the self-reporting procedure. They can report to the penitentiary institution themselves and the period within which they do so has been shortened from 60 days to 33 days. At all these points, there's that acceleration in it. The point of departure of the government is perhaps a good thing that I repeat here once again lik-op-piece, as soon as possible after the sentence begins. Mr Van Oosten of the VVD Group and other Members asked whether this would solve the problem of the loosely convicted criminals. The AICE has an important role to play. For the outstanding custodial sentences that exist, first of all, continuous monitoring and analysis is necessary in order to achieve targeted detection. I informed the Chamber of 13 August last. There are currently 2,843 outstanding custodial sentences in the search register which are also eligible for active detection. The AICE has an insight into these tasks and is able to analyse them and collect the necessary information. Relevant is the construction of the Executive & Signaling system, which will improve the digital exchange of information on execution orders between the AICE and the police and replace the current search register. As a result, the police not only know the case information, but can also execute person-orientedly. All agents will finally have insight into all outstanding penalties in the Netherlands. I refer to the painful example that the Hoekstra Committee examined. I have a scoop for Mr Van Oosten: yesterday the first version of the new system was put into use by the police. Three units are going to test this over the next period and I will, of course, inform the Chamber about its development. The starting point is and will continue to be the rapid implementation of penalties imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u93	I asked in my speech what exactly is the situation with the other 8,000 judgments that still have to be enforced. Of course, it sounds very nice that there are 2,400 cases susceptible to active detection, but what do we do with the other 8,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u94	For the 8,000 I refer to the letter of 2 July 2014. It indicates that these are people with a relatively short custodial sentence and whether a foreign residence address, or an indication of stay abroad. As a result, active detection is not possible. I need to see if those people are included in the system. I will come back in the second term to see if these people have been spotted, so that, if they appear in the Netherlands, they may still be eligible for punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u95	I'm guessing the minister's pretty much ready with this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u96	Almost. I have one more question from Mr Van Oosten, four from Mrs Van Toorenburg, one from Mrs Kooiman and one from Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u97	Thank you for this question of progress. I will give the floor to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u98	Mr Van Oosten asked whether the CJIB had a sufficiently solid position and whether they could push through. The answer is that the CJIB has those possibilities. Although there is no sanction for exceeding the time limits laid down in the law, Mr Van Oosten is right in this regard, but the pace of actual implementation is being monitored in a structural manner. The CJIB provides me with the information about the delivery period of the case law and the prosecution. The impact of these deadlines is, of course, taken into account. If there are structural overruns, I can, under my jurisdiction, address the case law and the Public Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of these exceedances and put in motion or put in place measures to improve the problems outlined. Mr Van Oosten asked whether the Minister would use his full weight in this. The Secretary of State or I will indeed be able to throw our full weight into battle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u99	This is what my question was more or less about. I know that there is no sanction linked to the situation that either the Public Prosecutor's Office or the judiciary would not comply with the deadlines laid down in the law. These are perpetrators who have committed a crime that a victim suffers a great deal. I would like to see the victim know about this when these deadlines are exceeded and things are not going well. Is it now the case that in the AICE programme a call will ring from "hey, something is going wrong" and that someone will then be someone at the Public Prosecutor's Office, at the case-law or at the CJIB itself has the attention to inform the victim of this? If this is not the case, can this be organized?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u100	In general, I can say that the victim follow-up and information system that we have in the Netherlands is working very well and has improved very much in recent years, both as a result of the parliamentary questions and letters sent by the Public Prosecutor. On this particular point, I do not know any answer, which comes in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u101	That's good. I also asked the Minister whether he could organise it in such a way that we, as a Chamber, have knowledge of the possible situation or whether the Public Prosecutor or the judiciary are failing in this respect. This does not need to be done on a case-by-case basis, but I would find it interesting to be informed in a broader sense. We can ring the bell as a room. Perhaps then we can bring this element of victims even more into play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u102	I think it makes sense for us to report on this. Normally, I would do that with progress strengthening performance criminal justice chain, but I don't know if it belongs there. I think that this is a point that the Secretary of State will explain when he reports periodically to the Chamber with a number of other aspects that are part of the implementation of sanctions. I would like to return to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question about the slightly more or less than 10,000 people who are staying abroad or who have an indication of their stay. In second term, I'm gonna tell you how we feel about that. Of the 2,400 or 2,800 persons of whom active detection is possible, we suspect that these persons could still stay in the Netherlands. This also applies to people with long-term sentences with an unknown foreign address. They are being spotted internationally. These matters are then within the scope of the so-called FAST.NL (Fugitive Active Search Team Netherlands) and that has an international reach. That is what action is being taken. The police also organised a national execution relay last year in which 1,300 arrests were made and 1,300 people were punished in one blow. I'm very happy about that. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked what my ambition is to prevent the long-term loss of liberty. At present, 89% of the main custodial sentences have been started or terminated within 24 months. I think we can all be pretty happy about that. We expect to be able to make significant improvements in 2016. In a letter to the Chamber I mentioned that I am aiming for 92% in 2016. For the long term, I'm even more ambitious. I would like 95% of the custodial sentences to be started or terminated within 24 months. In order to achieve this, additional measures will be needed. For example, the AICE and the police are working closely to track down the fugitive convicted persons with an open custodial sentence who are still under active investigation and to execute the sentence. This is also one of the results of the Hoekstra Committee's investigation, among other things. I also expect that measures will be needed at the earlier stage of the criminal justice chain, because decisions on prosecution and trial, for example in the case of default convictions, will also have a substantial impact on the failure in the enforcement chain. So we're working hard on this. My ambition in this respect is ambitious. If the AICE has a central role to play in the enforcement of criminal decisions, did Mrs Van Toorenburg ask, who might have applied for a new job, am I prepared to be open 24 hours, seven days a week? Of course, Mrs Van Toorenburg is right that the need for wider availability of data will grow as more criminal decisions are routed through the AICE. This is where the AICE is preparing. At the moment we are looking at what is needed for this, also in terms of accessibility of the AICE. This will be further assessed against the needs of the chain partners. The question is whether they are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. That certainly applies to prisons. These needs will be taken into account in the final assessment of how the AICE will do this. I suggest that your Chamber be informed as soon as there is any news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u103	I'd really like to argue in favour of that. I remember too well that you were confronted with this in the evenings, especially because a lot of prisons are far away and are at a great distance from the courts. If it had been up to this cabinet, those distances would have been much greater, but fortunately we could have stopped that. When people finally get their verdict and know whether they can go or not, it cannot be that after 5 p.m. they get a nice music or hear that they have to call back tomorrow. That's a really serious risk. I want the Minister to make it very clear that they can never be reached at night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u104	I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's point, but it is a question of whether the need is such that it justifies the costs and investments to do so. I just don't know. I can't see that right now. I think it would be good if we looked at that and informed the Chamber. In an AO I would say that you can consider that as a commitment. I will make this request to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u105	That's good, because I'm really not gonna do anything else for a while. So the Minister is not done with me! It is important not only to walk the appropriate paths and look into the small circle of officials. I may say it a little ugly, but you should also go to the directors, the departments and the population of the different prisons to hear what is really going on. That's where you hear the real sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u106	Right. I would like to take this heart cry from Mrs Van Toorenburg to heart. I'll pass it on to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u107	You're also going to ask the Secretary of State to report back to the Chamber on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u108	Yeah, sure! What role can AICE play in the treatment of adolescents? The AICE will see all outstanding penalties, including those for adolescents. The principle remains that the judge decides whether a case falls within the scope of juvenile criminal law. Mrs Van Toorenburg also understands that. I will check whether the AICE also provides for adequate safeguards for the implementation of juvenile criminal law. I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u109	I am mainly concerned with cases where the judge says: I do not want the punishment to prevail now, but that the child is now being treated. How can we braid that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u110	I will come back to that in second place. Ms. Kooiman asked about the deadlines for delivering a criminal decision by the D.A. As I said, that's 14 days. There's no sanction on that, but the Secretary of State will scream the D.A.'s neck if this isn't pulled out. I have already promised to inform the Chamber on a regular basis at the appropriate time. Mr Recourt and Mrs Kooiman asked about the efficiency of the whole, as Mrs Kooiman heard me whisper during her speech. They wondered whether the loss of tasks also had financial implications for the Public Prosecutor's Office. About 30 FTEs are released within the Public Prosecutor's Office as a result of this bill. This means that EUR 1.8 million can be rearranged within the Ministry of Security and Justice. At the CJIB, the AICE will now be set up, which will carry out a number of tasks, including informing chain partners and the operational chain management in the execution chain. That means that at the same time there are about twenty FTEs from the D.A.'s office going to the CJIB. For the remaining FTEs, these were the ten missing FTEs pointed out by Mrs Kooiman, appropriate work is being sought elsewhere in the department. It is not a question of saving, it is a question of recasting. The D.A.'s office is disappearing and new tasks and activities are being created at the CJIB. By the way, man follows work. The people of the D.A.'s office therefore have priority over new posts at the CJIB. By the way, a number of employees of the Office have already moved to the AICE. Mrs. Kooiman asked for a statement of the difference of ten. It is due to the fact that the implementation process is supported to a greater extent than at present by uniform work processes and information provision. This means that efficiency is achieved. I'm coming to the mail miscellaneous. Mr Van Oosten has asked whether it is going to be some kind of standard that fines should be waived. I have actually already answered that question. It's not gonna be a habit to get rid of fines. These must really be exceptional cases, where the further implementation will no longer serve any reasonable purpose. That will and cannot be accepted lightly, I also say for the Acts. This certainly does not apply to fines below €340 where there is a victim who has indicated that he wants to be informed about the case in question. It is foreseen that I will report to the Chamber on the cases in which this new power is used. The House can therefore check on the confirmation which I have given today for the Acts and which I give to Mr Van Oosten, as the Parliament should. Mrs Van Toorenburg has put her dilemma to us. The director of the establishment must release the prisoner if there is no longer a title on which he or she must be detained. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that this must be done immediately in principle. However, it is precisely for the fact that there is administrative uncertainty or, for example, that it is necessary to consider whether the person concerned should not be subject to another custodial sentence that is proposed in this proposal to hold a three-hour period for that director. During these three hours, the Minister, thus with the AICE, can verify the accuracy of the order. This is set out in Article 6:2:5 of the new Code. It is expected that the bid will be sufficient for three hours. I can already hear Mrs Van Toorenburg say: but they must be open 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. So I will come back to that in the future. The execution ban is also a theme that has returned. Mr Oskam, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Oosten tabled a motion on this during the debate on the budget. In that motion, the government is asked to intensify the investigation and to tighten up the execution of sentences in order to prevent their limitation. Furthermore, the motion asks to examine how the statutory limitation period of Article 76 of the Code of Criminal Law can be extended in order to carry out penalties for a longer period of time. So, the order of the Chamber is already in place. I myself have been ported for the idea that there should remain an urge on the implementation organisations to implement it as soon as possible. I remember Mr Recourt saying at the time of the budget debate: beware, because if you extend those limitation periods, that can also mean that people become lax, because there is no more urgency behind it. I therefore believe that we should find the right balance. We have extended the limitation periods for prosecution from 1 April 2013. This was done at the explicit request of a number of parties in the Chamber. This also automatically extends the time limits for the execution of these crimes. I will skip all the deadlines mentioned here in my speech, because Members will not be very interested in them. However, the legislative proposal may propose an amendment to the suspension of the deadline for implementation. That's in Article 6:1:23, paragraph 3 of the bill. If a person is in a judicial establishment, the time limit for the execution of all other sanctions shall be suspended. It doesn't start running again until the convict gets out. This means that it is still being considered whether it is desirable to extend the limitation period laid down in Article 76 of the Criminal Code further. I will inform the Chamber in due course. Mrs Van Toorenburg then asked a question which is really entirely on the side of the Secretary of State. That question is about the from-work to-work candidates in the prison system. I am happy to answer that question on behalf of the Secretary of State. Yes, there is excess in the Judicial Institutions Department and it seems that it is not going to be any less, given the fact that the Netherlands is becoming increasingly safer. This superpower is handled responsibly. Maximum efforts are made to guide work to work. Since January 2013, staffing has fallen sharply. During the voluntary phase of work-to-work policy, many employees have voluntarily become mobile. As a result, the number of compulsory work-to-work candidates has remained relatively limited to date. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mrs Kooiman. He was very concerned about that at the time. As of 1 January 2016, it is expected that a group of employees will still have to be designated as a mandatory work-to-work candidate. It looks at how best to guide them from work to work. Agreements have been concluded with large organisations to escort people out of DJI. The Secretary of State will inform the Chamber further about all measures, including the so-called Breaking Measures, in mid-2016. Mr Recourt has asked: can you remove some more tasks from the Public Prosecutor's Office? This will be considered in the further revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I see that as an incentive from Mr Recourt, but I do so very carefully and in good consultation with the Public Prosecutor himself. The civil and administrative tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office shall not be governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure. That is why the modernisation of this code is not being considered. There is currently no reason to change, for example, the tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Law on special inclusion in psychiatric hospitals. It was precisely on the basis of the Hoekstra report that it was decided not only to leave this magnificent task with the Public Prosecutor's Office but also to intensify it. So there's a tension field there. Mrs Van Toorenburg's question on wood stoves has already been answered as a result of parliamentary questions. The project will not continue. The Secretary of State has already answered that. Mr Recourt asked: how are the various initiatives in the criminal justice chain aligned? He specifically referred to USB and KEI. All involved partners are represented within the USB program. The same applies to the judiciary. For this reason, there is regular coordination between USB and other programs of the judiciary such as KEI. Mrs. Kooiman has asked about the capacity of the police. The police task can be carried out within the existing capacity without having to give less priority to other tasks. However, the refugee issue, as I have informed the Chamber, raises very serious concerns about the capacity of the police. I wouldn't surprise the Chamber with that. That's common knowledge. I am constantly in agreement with the local authority, the regional mayors, to see what consequences this has. Mrs Kooiman asked: why does it take so long before the Netherlands starts offering rehabilitation activities to lifelong punished people? At the beginning of next year, the Secretary of State announced that he would enter into a letter to the Court on the execution of life imprisonment, including in the light of recent judgments. In that letter he will also discuss the possibilities of re-socialization activities. I shall now turn to the amendments, first of all to the Van der Staaij/Bisschop amendment to item No. 10. In the current drafting of the amendment, I must advise against it, but I am prepared to consider with both proposers an amendment to the amendment if they agree with me that illegal immigrants without legal residence in the Netherlands should be eligible for a penalty reduction so that they are subsequently expelled through the detention centre. In that case, the penalties shall be suspended. If they return to the Netherlands unexpectedly, then they can continue to suffer the punishment. I would very much like to maintain that system. This amendment runs counter to that. If the authors are prepared to discuss this with my department and come to an amendment together, then I can leave the opinion on the amendment after adjustment to the Chamber, but in this drafting I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u111	The Minister knows the SGP as a constructive party, which is always willing to discuss it. We like to have that conversation and look forward to a good result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u112	Thank you. I'd be happy to honor that offer. This will be contacted in the near future. The amendment in part No. 11 belongs to members Van der Staaij and Bishop. This amendment provides for a reduction in custodial sentences in cases of coincidence. That is what we are going to talk about in the legislative proposal on the multi-annual co-operation, which is already in the Chamber. This amendment stipulates that there can be no conditional release if a number of penalties are applied at the same time. This is actually the result of the fundamental discussion I have with the SGP. The problem with this amendment is that it may mean, for example, that someone is in prison for two years and then does not get conditional release and therefore returns to society. That is the fundamental point on which I disagree with the SGP Group. I really think it is justified to apply the conditional release just then. Suppose he is a jihadist, then I want him to participate actively in a compulsory deradicalisation programme as a result of the conditions in order to keep the risk of recurrence as low as possible. I have taken good note of the fact that the PVV and the SP groups considered this to be a positive point. I ask them to think about the intention. These people are in jail pretty long. Two years is a serious prison sentence, as Mr Bishop said when he talked about the two one-year prison sentences. According to the government, it would be wise for a conditional release to take place. I have to discourage the amendment for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u113	The minister now pretends that people are sitting on water and bread for two years and that the prison door suddenly opens after two years. He needs to give the prison staff a little more credit, you know. We are working on a return to society, but they must not be allowed to wander freely after serving only one third of their sentence. The Minister is suggesting it a little too black and white. The point I am addressing is the Minister's remark that one of these wonderful conditions is compulsory participation in a deradicalisation programme. Today, the Minister has written another letter saying that he is not going to impose such a thing because it makes no sense. What's wrong with the Minister's story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u114	Then Mrs. Helder should read the letter carefully. The question of the Chamber was: is it possible to impose a deradicalisation obligation without criminal suspicions? I have said that this cannot and does not make any sense. That's different than a stick behind the door. The consequence of not participating in a deradicalisation program is that you return to the cell. That's the power of conditional release. What is the effectiveness of this is indeed the question; I must admit that to Mrs Helder. But at least we have been able to do something, and that is not possible in the normal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u115	I read the letter very well. The Minister says there's no point. Research has shown that it only makes sense if someone has the conviction to participate in such a programme. Then it does not work as a stick behind the door, because then there is no such conviction. In this respect, the Minister must correct himself for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u116	That's exactly what I'm saying. I fully agree with Mrs Helder that, if conditional release is mandatory, the question is what its effectiveness is. The question that arose, however, was Mr Klaver's question from the debate on the attacks in Paris. He asked me whether I could impose a deradicalisation programme without criminal sanctions and whether I would be prepared to do so. I said this can't be done. I have also said that the question of whether that is meaningful is serious because of this aspect. That does not mean, however, that I do not think that it should be possible for a conditional release simply because it is part of the conditions, possibly alongside other conditions such as a ban on territory, reporting obligation or an anklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u117	Suppose someone is convicted of two crimes up to twice a year. He'd have to go to jail for two years. However, the conditional release system states that you can go outside after 16 months if you have good behavior. Another transgressor, another criminal, commits the same crimes, but one after the other, and in such a way that it can no longer be assumed as a multiple coincidence. Can't you say that the last figure is actually punished more severely than the first, when he committed the same crimes? In other words, if you turn it around, wouldn't you actually punish the figure in the first example, which commits two crimes, but actually less for as long as you go to prison, as much as the figure in the second example, in which the same crimes are committed but more out of time? I am looking for a solution, and perhaps that can come back again in the debate on the bill on the multi-faceted co-operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u118	I understand Mr Van Oosten's point. I have here four pages of text explaining why it is when I say it is. I propose that we explain in a letter to the Chamber on this particular point why we believe that the proposal contained in the amendment to item No. 11 working out in the wrong way. I would like to say immediately that I will also speak with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u119	And then, of course, the letter will come to the Chamber before the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u120	Yes, but when are the votes scheduled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u121	They're scheduled for Tuesday now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u122	We're gonna get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u123	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u124	Then I come to the amendment to item No. 12. That's again about parole. The proposers want to be able to make that impossible when it comes to the security of the State or when there is a threat of disturbance of public policy. Now I come back to the point of repentance and the sense of guilt, on which Mr Bishop and I had an exchange of views. When you read it, it makes perfect sense. However, the question is how you measure that and whether this is not already provided for in the regulation we have. It stipulates that conditional release may be waived if there is a fear of recidivism. This is, of course, also due to the risk of recidivism with regard to the security of the State or to the disturbance of public order. As far as I am concerned, this amendment is superfluous. Moreover, it is very difficult to apply, because you can have a huge semantic discussion about when these requirements will be met. Those who are victims of it, which fall within the scope of the amendment if it is adopted, will look for ways of getting out of it. I think the amendment is too broad and not necessary. That's why I don't recommend it. In their amendment to item No. 13 members Van der Staaij, Bisschop and Helder deal with the conditional release. That's a nice article. If the developments, such as those of the safety of the Netherlands, which has increased enormously in recent years, continue, we will never need this article. Mr Bishop is right to say that this makes it possible to send people on conditional release because there are too few cells. We don't have that situation. We should be very happy about that. It is difficult for security and the prison system, but it is a very good development. You can get it out of the law. I fully agree with Mr Bishop and the others. But if the situation changes in the future, we may need the article again. I'd like to leave that consideration to the Chamber. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. However, I would point out that there is a chance that one day a minister or secretary of state in this Chamber will ask to help with an article we once had, because he needs to be able to send some people in specific cases because there are too few cells. I leave it to the Chamber to decide whether this step should be taken even if it is symbolic or to leave this article. The amendment in part No. 14 members Van der Staaij and Bisschop see the re-introducing of the possibility of extending the performance of community service. The deletion of the possibility of renewal has been very conscious. This reduces the administrative burden of the renewal requests at the probation, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the CJIB. However, in order to make that possible, the legislative proposal extended the standard deadline and the probation clause indicated that it is expected that the execution of community service sentences within that extended standard term will also succeed. This amendment would remove this advantage and thus destroy what is precisely the purpose of the legislative proposal. For this reason, I must advise against this amendment. Now I come to Mrs Helder's amendment which states that the probation is not required to advise on the special conditions to be laid down but has the opportunity to advise on them. I find that difficult, because under the current regime, parole is in fact already recommended in all cases of conditional release. For that reason, the legislative proposal is actually a codification of a use that is already taking place and which we are actually very excited about. In contrast to the applicant, therefore, we see the added value of the probation advice for the imposition of special conditions. We also see the importance of the risk analysis that the parole procedure makes for this. For this reason, I would ask Mrs Helder to withdraw the amendment. If she doesn't, I have to advise against it. I now turn to Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment to item No. 16. That amendment allows service to the counsellor. On this amendment, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, the legal profession and the Council of State have said that this is very undesirable. The government agrees with these judgments and I must therefore reject the amendment. I see Mrs Van Toorenburg shaking of no, but I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u125	Then she's going to ask a question about it, because she wants to convince the minister, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u126	Absolutely. At first, I think it was way too spacious. It was right to see it in the rifle. You shouldn't want to be able to do it with roommates and employers. I couldn't agree more. That is why we have narrowed it down to serving an additional counselor. I'm gonna say it very flat, Mr. Chairman, can I? So you're gonna eat out of the shithole of the State and say, "I want the State to pay someone for me to get into a procedure, but no, that person isn't the one the State can easily do my pieces to. We find that too easy. The advisers have not specifically turned against this, but against the other two forms, the roommates and the employer, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u127	Now I'm going to come up with a little more background. The fundamental objections to this service fiction proposed in the amendment concern, inter alia, the position of the counsellor and his relationship with the defendant he assists. Providing assistance to a client doesn't mean you're also representing the client. For example, without explicit authorisation from his client, a lawyer should not defend a suspect who did not appear in court, as Mrs Van Toorenburg probably knows very well. This proposal would legally force the counselor to accept a piece for a client for the simple reason that it is a client. In that step, the client may be represented by his counsel while it is not a fact that the defendant had any contact with the attached counselor. This means that the counselor may find himself in an extremely difficult position, in the sense that he himself becomes responsible for finding out for himself the suspect, who does not want to understand himself, for example, but is officially his customer, in order to ensure that the defendant is informed of the service that has taken place. If you do not do or do not do enough, there may be disciplinary consequences for the counsellor if there is not enough effort. Then there are practical objections. It is foreseen that cases will be brought before the court if it is not clear whether the counsel has been able to pass the document on to the defendant. In that case, however, a counselor will withdraw from the provision of assistance. Well, then he's done with the problem. Moreover, the practical value is small, because most of the additions are made to cases where the defendant has been deprived of his freedom. Then the defendant receives the piece in person in his cell. So even after further questions from Mrs Van Toorenburg, I have no alternative but to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u128	I will try again anyway, because I know all too well that the counselor is being forced to stash a huge paperwork for this client to make sure that that addition can actually take place. Then it is not surprising that he also gets another piece of responsibility. So it's not like he's gonna have to go look for whoever that means. It's meant to be in person. The suspect who does want to eat out of the rifle of the state by getting an attorney then has to join to know where to appear. Because that can never come as a surprise; otherwise he would not have asked for an addition before. That is what the amendment is looking at. It is precisely in the situation that someone is asking for an addition. Then the lawyer gets a huge stack of papers to handle. Then the suspect takes off, and suddenly the counselor can't represent his interests anymore. That is what we say: let it be served in person with the counselor. You want him to work for you; then he will work for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u129	I understand the incentive given to Mrs Van Toorenburg, namely that the lawyer is paid by the State. However, that does not mean that we should then burden the lawyer with a problem that he has never had before. You create the legal fiction that has been served, but that doesn't mean that it has reached the defendant. However, that is what service is about. The defendant must have the right to defend himself and be defended. That doesn't necessarily have to be done by that lawyer. He can pull himself out, and the client can fire him, too. Nevertheless, as a result of the amendment, the lawyer still has the problem that he is also liable to disciplinary action for service. I really don't think Mrs Van Toorenburg and I will get out of this. I will continue to say that I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u130	Since it is an amendment, I do believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg has the right to ask a third question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u131	So you can ask for state funding. Then the lawyer gets to work for you. It is special that you can then say that you are not at home when the pieces are meant. How is that possible? Is it not the responsibility of the person taking on the service and getting the money to take on the service that might be at his disadvantage, namely that he should receive a document stating that someone should ultimately appear before a judge? Isn't it really weird that we suddenly say that that lawyer doesn't have to act for him? I think the Minister's liberal heart is bleeding a bit now. He is trying to make it right, but I think he also thinks that we can expect someone who pays for certain services to come into action and call or send an e-mail to report that pieces have come in. After all, he wanted the addition as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u132	I think Mrs Van Toorenburg is making a mistake of thinking. The essence of service is that the defendant knows what will happen to him or her. Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal means that the lawyer will be responsible in our rule of law for the defendant knowing that he has to appear in court somewhere, while at that time it is not certain that the defendant is still the client of the lawyer in question. That relationship can be terminated, or the lawyer can withdraw himself. So I really don't think you should take that responsibility to an individual attorney. That is why I am maintaining my reservations about the amendment. Mrs Van Toorenburg has tried to come up with a good argument for changing the assessment of the amendment, but there is not. By the way, I really appreciate her perseverance. I come now to Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment to item No. 17. With the amendments to Parts Nos. 17 and 18 the CDA intends to respond to some suggestions made by the Public Prosecutor regarding the implementation of withdrawal measures. This is an investigation into the property of the convicted person. The intention is to gain insight into the extent and location of the defendant's assets. With the recent introduction of the investigation into the property of the convicted person in 2011, we have always maintained the premise that execution is done by the bailiff and is civil. The investigation into the property of the convicted person is therefore at the service of that execution. I leave it to the House to decide on the amendment to item No. 17 to the Chamber, because the amendments proposed by Mrs Van Toorenburg are in line with the principles I have just read out. With her amendment to part No. 18 In addition to the previous amendment, Mrs Van Toorenburg wants to introduce a facility to enter homes and places in order to allow for the criminal seizure of property. At first, that sounds very nice. The possibility of entering locked places already exists in the criminal execution investigation. The purpose of this power is to establish that there are goods in or at that place, e.g. an yard or a warehouse, on which redress can be made. Such items may then be seized by the bailiff. However, I do not think it is appropriate to take up additional criminally-admissible entry and seizure powers, as proposed in the amendment. This is not in line with the principle of implementation of the withdrawal decision, namely that the attachment and its handling are carried out in accordance with civil law. I would like to point out that the introduction of an seizure power for the determination of assets creates a completely new figure, which raises all kinds of complex legal questions. What rules apply, for example, to the laying and handling of the herd? All this goes far beyond the scope of the present legislative proposal. If Mrs Van Toorenburg withdraws this amendment, I am prepared to say that we will involve this aspect in the consideration of the legislative proposals that are still pending. Then we can see if there is any reason to actually organise the whole system differently than it is now. I can agree to that, but I must advise against the amendment as such. If Mrs Van Toorenburg withdraws her amendment, I keep my promise. If the amendment is put to the vote and rejected, I will not make that effort, because we still have 21 legislative proposals to go ahead with the review of criminal proceedings. So we still have some things to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u133	I understand that you are introducing the conditional commitment in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u134	Yes. Not too long ago I introduced a novel; I'm doing that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u135	That's marked for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u136	I have to laugh about this a little bit. The minister always wants to present himself as some kind of crime fighter: you have to pick those crooks. When I see if I can make that easier, the Minister says, "I'd like to look at that, but you have to do what I say first." I don't think that's a good idea. Let us simply consider whether this amendment will be able to go round the table with the Ministry in the next week to see if we can make something that is acceptable to everyone. That's much nicer than I'm gonna sit around and wait for the Minister to sit in a corner until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u137	Mrs Van Toorenburg has nothing to worry about: this minister is never in a corner. I see, however, that this discussion has not been discussed in a week, because Mrs Van Toorenburg, as I have already said, proposes a totally new system of seizure and execution in an amendment. That is the reality. I propose that we should discuss this with each other, but at the same time I maintain my advice and advise against the amendment. In her amendment to item No. 19 Mrs Van Toorenburg proposes not to say that it is the condition, but all the conditions. This has the effect of limiting the possibility of tailor-made work, but also of making indirect consent a formal requirement. However, that is not the system of the law. Special conditions shall be laid down after consultation with the convicted person. The starting point is that the convicted person is prepared to comply with the conditions. It is not a formal requirement that the convicted person agrees. However, acceptance of the special conditions by the convicted person offers the best guarantee that they will also be complied with. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall determine unilaterally whether and, if so, what special conditions are necessary. If the convicted person is not prepared to comply with the conditions, or if there is any doubt about them, it does not have to be decisive in all cases to postpone or postpone the conditional release. I understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg says: he has to accept all the conditions. In general, I understand very well that this is said, but experience has shown that even those convicted who initially did not act cooperatively may be motivated to comply with the conditions by the supervision of the probation or by the prospect of the sentence being implemented. Let us not forget that non-compliance with the conditions can lead to the withdrawal of conditional release.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u138	The Minister just said that he saw Mr Van der Staaij standing at a certain point with a certain argument. I see MP Van der Steur still standing, screaming about the fact that people could shop in conditions and the fact that sometimes they do not meet the conditions and that what is possible is not being followed up. Do I hear him say that it may be that people have been given conditions that they then fail to comply with and that this is fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u139	No, because if a convicted person indicates that he is not willing to comply with certain conditions, you can walk two ways. Or, under these conditions, he will be released and there will be strict monitoring of compliance with those conditions. If that doesn't happen, the parole will be revoked. Whether a claim for postponement or non-disclosure of the conditional release is filed. The law thus provides for the possibility of retaining what one would like in the implementation practice, which Mrs Van Toorenburg does not leave room for, in some cases, the consent of the convicted person not to depend on the choice of the conditions. And, of course, all this must be done very carefully. So that's where the crux is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u140	Then I simply have to say that there is not the crux, but the twist. We still had this minister, as a Member of Parliament, on our side: the conditions must be met. From Vak-K, however, a completely different perspective has been developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u141	But then Mrs Van Toorenburg did not listen very carefully. I'll repeat it. There are only two possibilities if the conditions are not met. It leads to the suspension or postponement of conditional release or return to prison. It's as simple as that, and it's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u142	When I interrupted Mrs Van Toorenburg in this area, I secretly hoped that she had tabled an amendment only for the sake of kindness and that it was a semantic discussion, namely a discussion on whether you could also understand 'the conditions' as well as 'all conditions'. My argument was that this is true. Then this amendment would be superfluous, because 'the' is 'all'. The law already states that the convicted person does not declare himself willing to "the" or "the." "all" conditions to comply with. But now it seems like I have to read the law differently and the prisoner does not necessarily have to declare himself willing, contrary to the law, to agree to the conditions. I think that's a strange figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u143	I understand that Mr Van Oosten says that. I have just explained this to Mrs Van Toorenburg. In practice, they want to retain this freedom because they have experience with it. In general, there are good sanctions in case you have imposed the conditions, but they are not being complied with. It is also not necessary to agree to all conditions. The main line is, of course, that this is the case; that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u144	Paragraph 1 states: conditional release may be postponed or omitted if... I then go to subparagraph d. and I mention the first sentence... the convicted person does not declare himself willing to comply with the conditions. That's all the conditions, isn't it? Then the convict must declare himself willing to do so, too, mustn't he? Surely that's the least you can expect if you're allowed to go on parole?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u145	The D.A.'s gonna set the terms. The aim is to achieve the objective it is intended to achieve. Those terms, whether you agree to them or not, are there. So the power to then take action if the person concerned does not comply with that will remain. Therefore, you do not need this "all" to achieve the objective that Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten want to achieve. You can always take measures, but if you explicitly state that it must be "all," it also means that in some cases you cannot deliver customization. That is the freedom the implementing authorities would like to keep. Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Van Toorenburg disagree. That is possible, but nevertheless I would like to discourage the amendment because of the freedom that is needed. Mrs Kooiman has tabled an amendment which looks at the withdrawal of the increase in fines. I told you, I'm coming with a letter about the fines. This amendment does not cover the financial damage that will arise as a result of the amendment. That's why I have to advise against it. I've left a few things for the second term. I'll answer it now. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked if the 8,000 convicts had been reported. To my great joy I can announce that it is. All outstanding sentences have been reported. This applies both to cases where active detection is not possible and to cases where active detection is not possible. In the event of a cross-border crossing, these persons can therefore be apprehended. I will reply to Mr Van Oosten just to be sure. Yes, the research of the WODC into PhD/Degradation will come together with the conditional release. Is that what comes after the evaluation of the PhD/Degradation study? Of course, it goes without saying that at the moment that this would prove that the project is not being continued, the WODC research also makes no sense. So it depends on the evaluation if it comes out, but if that evaluation is positive, then it comes out. That evaluation is foreseen for next year. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about safeguards for juvenile criminal law. For the purposes of the application of juvenile criminal law, the AICE will also instruct the implementing authorities concerned on the basis of the judgment. These may include specific implementing bodies or implementing orders, as well as the behavioural impact measure. This does not in itself require any specific safeguards. This is simply arranged in a general sense at the AICE in such a way that it is able in all possible ways to comply with that requirement of the juvenile penalty. Mr Van Oosten asked whether the victim would be informed if the prosecution and the ZM did not meet the deadlines we agreed on in the law. No, victims are not specifically informed about the implementation, but victims are informed about other aspects of enforcement, such as leave and conditional release. In doing so, I also answered the questions from the second term and came to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u146	This brought an end to the government's first term of office. I would ask Members to come and see me before I go any further. I thank the Minister for his patience. Now that I've had a word with everyone, I'd like to make the following proposal. In view of the fact that the Minister has promised a further letter with a comprehensive reply, the fact that there are still a number of amendments which still need to be discussed and also the time, I think it would be wise to do the second term of this debate after receiving the promised letter from the Minister. That won't be for Christmas anymore, but right after that. Now I know there are some people who still have some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u147	I do not need to delay, but I know that the Minister has promised a letter and there are colleagues who may wish to study in greater depth than I do, because it is not a question of questions that I have asked. I think it is a good proposal and I agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u148	I have asked a number of questions in my first term, but also in writing, concerning the Ombudsman and the hostage situation in the case of traffic fines. I would be pleased if the Minister would look carefully at these questions, as well as the questions I asked in the first term. I was not entirely satisfied with the answer and I hope that the Minister will be able to return to that in the letter he promised on this subject. Then we can take that with us in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u149	An appointment has been made to look at the statute of limitations. If we have time now, it could still be included in this bill. Then we made that strike right away. Maybe the Minister can respond to that in his letter. With regard to juvenile punishment, I would like to ask the President to speak to the officials outside the sitting, because it is precisely the question of how we enforce the treatment. That, I think, is an important point which the Minister can then come back to later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-23.u150	I assume you mean to speak to the officials, because I would like to do so, but I don't know as much about it as you do. Good. I saw the Minister nodding in agreement, with which he indicated, to honour the Chamber's request. We will continue to deal with this bill immediately after the ceremony.
