ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	In this debate I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and the people in the public gallery. Of course, a warm welcome to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and her Secretary of State, who is present for the third time this week for a plenary debate in the Chamber. Eight speakers have spoken for this debate. They have six minutes of speaking time per group and we have agreed that there will be a maximum of four interruptions between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Wasting and not spending care money properly is totally unacceptable, or this is due to brutal fraud, due to errors or inappropriate use. It must be prevented, traced and addressed. There is now a solid package of measures, but above all we want to be able to see the effect of these measures in an annual reduction in contributions, in a statement from the Public Prosecutor's Office and in an understandable health note for the patient. The cause of leaking care money is a persistent problem. The declaration system is so complicated that a mistake is made quickly. Also, the system of payments per operation and upcoding provokes inappropriate use. In the sector, apart from mistakes and inappropriate use, there is also grave fraud by malicious people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	I hear Mrs Bouwmeester from the PvdA talking about a bounty drop. She wants to reduce the premium by tackling fraud. The PVV tabled a motion on this matter two years ago and it was not supported by the Labour Party. What has made the Labour Party realise that the premium can actually be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	1.6 billion could be saved by tackling fraud, waste, overtreatment and inappropriate use. Anything we can do about it, we have to do it. I have to admit that I have no idea what was in that motion, but I can imagine why the motion was not supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	The citizen does not understand why the Labour Party did not support that motion. If the Labour Party says that 1.6 billion is being cheated and there is a motion saying that all the fraud money must be tracked down and returned to the citizen, then the citizen does not understand why the Labour Party does not support that motion. Honestly, I don't get it either. I'll retable the motion later. Can I count on the support of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	Generally speaking, we are making our own proposals here. Several motions have been passed by the PVV which sound sympathetic, what Mrs Klever says sounds very sympathetic, but which often prove to be impossible. That is often a reason not to support a motion. Anyway, let's hold hands. All those who support the goal of saving money by preventing the leaking of care money must join forces to make sure that we actually do so. We do agree on what goal we want to achieve. The cabinet has taken a large package of measures and is therefore on the right track; this is reflected in the progress report. There's still a little bit of a tooth left. We want to keep our finger on the pulse and we want to be able to see what progress is being made every year. This means making it measurable what steps have been taken. I ask the Minister if she would like this to come back annually in the progress report. Preventing the leakage of care money is not so easy because of this system and it is right that health insurance companies, doctors and hospitals should point this out. On the other hand, there is also a need for greater awareness among the caregivers themselves. Research shows that correct declaration is not really the highest priority among doctors, but the tricks for upcoding or smart declaration are exchanged. On the other hand, there are a lot of doctors who do provide sensible and economical care. But they get a reprimand from the financial manager: you are so sensible and economical in caring for the loss of patients and money. Those are, of course, very wrong, contradictory signals. I therefore ask the Minister how she removes these incentives from the financial managers, because benevolent doctors should be supported, and that is the majority of them. In case of error, whether it happens consciously or unconsciously, there is still too much "thank you" principle, while error declaration should never pay. Sensitive and economical care with appropriate declaration is the norm and that should pay off. This can easily be stimulated by allowing health insurers to make a more structural analysis and to have discussions about practical variation. This can improve quality and prevent inefficiency. However, more than just a conversation is needed. What does the Minister think of a reverse burden of proof? Where a health insurance provider is always obliged to reimburse the notes, he should no longer have to do so if there is evidence of over-declaration by healthcare providers. In other words, if a healthcare provider deviates significantly from the average of a region or from nationally comparable healthcare providers, the healthcare provider does not have to pay. In this way, a health care provider should prove that it is justified. Several studies show that there are 1.6 billion savings to be made. Let us use all the instruments that health insurance companies can use to really get that back, for example by not letting them be obliged to pay the bills that are unjustified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	I have a question for the PvdA. In the case of fraud, I find it very disturbing that many parties are responsible. I refer, for example, to health insurers who do not always pass on data, as the Minister has said. I find it inexplicable that they do not. In addition, I refer to the NZa, the Public Prosecutor and the Inspection SZW. If a lot of people are responsible, no one is ultimately responsible. Would it be okay for the Labour Party if the prosecution were simply to take action in the event of unlawful claims? The D.A. could quickly analyse whether something could be prosecuted. Only then can it be considered whether it can be removed in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	I find that a difficult question, because you are dealing with this issue in different stages. You need to track it down first. Then you have to see if it's a mistake, if it's inappropriate, or if it's about deliberately and fraudulently taking care money away from it. In the latter case, the prosecution is definitely on the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'm looking for a way to stop getting away with it. Healthcare insurers do not even provide their data on what they do about fraud detection. Then we can say "you no longer pay the notes," but I can already imagine the endless discussions about what will happen next.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	If there's an unjustified declaration, that's a violation of the law. That's what the D.A.'s supposed to look at, isn't it? That can move it to other parties later. However, if the prosecution is the first to be responsible, then we are done with the referencing behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs Leijten's dilemma is indeed a major problem. If there's any serious fraud, it goes to the D.A.'s office. We also want more statements to be made by the public prosecutor, because that is still too little, and I will come to that in a moment. If a good case is delivered and the prosecution does not give it a priority, that is a very wrong signal. However, the declaration system is so complicated that a mistake is made very easily. Sometimes that's a mistake in your favor, sometimes at your disadvantage, only it's a little less common. I call that the "fault thank you" principle. You've declared wrong, you've gotten richer, but nothing's gonna happen. That's unacceptable. I think that is what Mrs Leijten is saying, and I very much agree with her. That's why I said this shouldn't pay any more. So that has to be paid back. And if that happens more often, you have to look at how to put the stimulus so that it doesn't happen again. I agree with Mrs Leijten that more needs to be done than is currently stated in the report. That's why I made that proposal. But if we send everyone to the state's attorney's office, when sometimes there's a real clumsiness or someone who doesn't understand, then the state's attorney's office gets back into trouble. So I share the dilemma, but I wouldn't say we should send the D.A. on everyone. However, we can solve the "failure thank you" behavior by always making a full refund, as a first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	To go further into the position of the Public Prosecutor: in the last year I together with colleague Otwin van Dijk asked questions about a case in the municipality of Houten. That's where large-scale pgb fraud was committed, but the D.A. didn't act. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	I welcome this question because I can now take a whole block out of my text. Where municipalities, a healthcare office, a health insurance company or anyone else provides a case about public money fraud, with care money, for which every euro is currently being reversed, we believe that this case should always be dealt with by the Public Prosecutor. It's actually unacceptable that when people go to so much trouble to file a case, the DA says that it's not a priority, or we don't have time. In that respect, it is a pity that Minister Opstelten is not here. However, I believe that these two leaders can also respond to this. We find this unacceptable. That is precisely why my colleague and Mrs Dik tabled a motion. We still stand for that. I hope the Minister has a good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	I am very pleased that we can follow up on the parliamentary questions and on the motion. I can see at the moment that cases remain with the D.A.'s office, and that does not lead to new case law. Like Mrs Bouwmeester, I find that unacceptable. I therefore hope that together we will be able to submit to the Minister and the Secretary of State that this situation will not arise again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, sure. In my introduction, I have already said that we want to see in several ways that the whole package of measures that is now in place and that is good has an effect. So we want to see that the money comes in and that less is leaking out. We also want to see the effect in statements by the public prosecutor: just deliver that list and show us what the result is. Only then can we, as a Chamber, see whether it is going well or whether it needs to be adjusted. I therefore very much agree with Mrs Dikk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	I hear Mrs Bouwmeester say that she regrets that the Minister for Security and Justice is not here. However, it is itself the one who blocked it. I asked for this earlier and then I heard from the PvdA and the VVD that it was not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u18	No, we wanted the Minister of Security and Justice to be there. That's what I have on the e-mail. I could even prove that, in OM terms. He's not here right now. I assume that Minister Schippers will be able to speak on his behalf, even if I would have preferred to hear it from him. Since we have to be so careful about every care euro, I am ultimately concerned that we have the certainty that when things are delivered, fraud does not pay off. Neither do mistakes, but fraud certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u19	I can remember the regulation which said that it was not necessary at the request. I am glad to hear that Mrs Bouwmeester is now indicating that it is necessary. We can't actually get this whole fraud chain around without a strong Public Prosecutor's Office. Is Mrs Bouwmeester therefore prepared to give the Public Prosecutor more money when it appears that it does not have the capacity to deal with sufficient care fraud cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u20	I think the first important step is to have an analysis of why the D.A. isn't going any further. Why doesn't it take that step? Are things not delivered properly? Is there something wrong on the front of the chain? Are there not enough people? Is there something else going on? Let's do that analysis first. Then I'd like to watch with Mrs Bruins Slot where we'll get the money to strengthen the DA's office. I like to pick up that glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u21	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u22	That's what I think I've almost had the cup of D.A.'s office. I was talking about the reverse burden of proof. How can you make it easier for health insurers to intervene when they see that there is inefficiency? I also want to know from the Minister what she expects from health insurers. What amount are they supposed to raise annually? What targets do they get? In what way does the NZa see to that? The PInCeT report shows that tracking fraud is actually seen as a cost: we have money, we spend it and we distribute it a little bit. It's kind of what people sometimes call "OPM," other people's money. We'll split it up and we'll see. I'd like to know what the target is for this and how the NZa is monitoring it. Then I'll come to the insightful care note. If patients call a health care provider and say they're wrong, they should be taken seriously. Often the note is still so unclear that people don't understand it, or the rates are so common that people still don't understand the price. What is the progress in making the new note? Finally, Mr President. At the end of the chain, you'll join the D.A.'s office. That's gonna have to do. I have just indicated this extensively in interruptions. So I can conclude by saying that we are focusing on the visible outcome of this package of measures. The package is good, now the result. We would like to measure progress on an annual basis. It is also an important signal to society that we are sensible and resource-efficient with care money, and that mistakes are not tolerated, let me say: 'because it can't' behaviour in declarations and fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you for your contribution. Mrs Leijten has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u24	I do have one more question. In recent weeks, a group in healthcare has been criminalised, consciously or unconsciously, and that is what we are talking about today. That's about the pgb fraud. I will say a few things about criminalisation in my term, but at least there is a problem. Some pgb holders are now dependent on others for directing their pgb. That goes well a lot, but it also goes wrong very often. When a pgb holder sits with a rogue agency that is rolled up by the inspection or the Public Prosecutor because of fraud or poor care, that pgb holder gets the financial lid on his nose because it has to repay the pgb. I'm looking for a form where we get the money back from the culprit, because he cashed it. Would the PvdA support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u25	Yeah, sure. But I understand that this is precisely part of this cabinet's plan of action. However, if Mrs Leijten has a better proposal, I would certainly like to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u26	I put questions to the House, which were answered last week after about three months. However, the Secretary of State has said that those who have fallen victim to a pgb agency that is not right should not pay the bill. However, it does happen a lot. He has now requested that Agis health care agency in this case stop for a moment. However, do I understand that the PvdA would accept a structural measure and do I not want vulnerable people who have been given a pgb and who have been exploited financially to get the lid on financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u27	In fact, first of all, you have to look at how to prevent it. People ask for a pgb and are dependent on it, but they must be given the right care. People who take advantage of that are, of course, the biggest bastards that exist. Not only because they steal money from society, but also because they make individual people very vulnerable. So the first step is definitely the occurrence at the front. Afterwards, action should also be taken at the back. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that those who have the pgb should not suffer in the meantime that all kinds of people are getting rid of the question of how they get the money back and how care should be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u28	You mean bad guys, big bad guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u29	Did I use another word?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u30	Yes, you used another word.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u31	Apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. Because of all the fuss over the past week about possible pgb fraud, you would almost forget the real cause of this debate: the nature and extent of false declarations at hospitals and care in kind. The estimate is EUR 1.6 billion. That's a huge amount of money. The SP doesn't want to step into the distraction manoeuvre that's been deployed over the past week. The harsh tone of this cabinet in the direction of the pgb-holders bothers me. While many hundreds of millions of errors are declared in hospitals and the Minister cannot fail to say often enough that they are false declarations and that it is probably not a fraud, she does criminalise pgb-holders. And I'm not okay with that. Even if special manuals are found in hospitals to make optimal declarations, according to the Minister, there is no intention to do so; also according to the NZa. Fortunately, the NZa has been involved with the sector and has created a banned list and she has translated it very simply into questions and answers on the site. I think this is such a help from the NZa! Are you allowed to declare a childbirth without an overnight stay? And do you know what the NZa will answer? She replied, "No, you can't do that." The fact that that open door has to be rigged at the NZa says a lot about declaration fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u33	I shall come back to the previous point. Mrs. Leijten says the cabinet criminalizes pgb-holders. I think that we could come a long way together in this debate on the issue of pgb fraud, but where does Mrs Leijten get the idea that the cabinet is criminalising pgb-holders? There's fraud with pgbs. You'll have to name it. That's quite another thing than criminalizing. In fact, that is essential to maintain the pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u34	I'll share that. I agree with Mr Van 't Wout, but last week it was deliberately announced through De Telegraaf that 7% of the number of house visits would involve fraud. That turned out to be a little bit of a "what do you call it?" O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u35	Well, now, now, now, now, now,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u36	Well, now, thank you very much. A reference was made at that time to "question marks in the declaration." Eventually, it turns out that the study was done in a high risk group. If you're investigating a high-risk group, you'll get a high grade. So that 7% isn't hard at all. Then I asked for the underlying report that would be there. There isn't yet. I find that a little disturbing. I am glad that Mr Van 't Wout and I share that, also in order to keep the pgb available, you have to tackle fraud. I will come back to that, but I do not think what happened last week is so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u37	I believe that, at the request of the Chamber, there has been a letter from the Cabinet on the progress and handling of pgb fraud. The media then report on this in their own way. Let us at least agree that naming pgb fraud is quite different from criminalising pgb holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u38	Fine, but when I talk about this, like, for example, last week in a 30-member debate following a distress signal from general practitioners a year ago, the VVD says that we are debating old news. The government sent that letter with an old report, a report from a year ago. I think that's a bit of a suspicion. Everyone calls that what they want to call it, but if it had been a new report with new figures, it would have made sense. However, the government refers to old figures. She blames the opposition for referring to old news reports, but she does so herself. I just don't think that's so neat. Well, let me put it this way. At St. Antonius Hospital in Nieuwegein, 25 million euros were declared unjustly. The cardiology, gynecology, internal medicine, pediatrics, neurosurgery, neurology and radiology departments identified abuses. Evidence was even found that it was declared in such a way that it could be declared as high as possible. The judgment of the NZa? "It wasn't intentional, but we're fined." Has the fine been paid by now? Has the wrongly declared money been repaid? In the fight against care fraud, the Dutch Health Authority has so far proved not to be a solution to the problem, but a part of it. She is a delaying factor in tackling fraud and makes criminal prosecution impossible, as was the case at St. Antony Hospital. The new cooperation protocol between the NZA and the Public Prosecutor's Office gives too little certainty that this will not happen again in the future. That is why we would prefer to turn our backs: in the event of an unjustified declaration of a certain magnitude, the Public Prosecutor's Office will first consider whether criminal prosecution is possible. I would like to know from the Minister what her response is to that. We find it confusing to place the search at the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate. When three ministries are responsible, no one is ultimately responsible. Let the D.A. lead; that's our plea. The chance for medical-specialist care is low and yet there is considerable money involved. It is estimated that this represents 1.3% of the total damage burden in medical-specialist care. The NZa has conducted further research into mental health care in relation to estimates. This has led to a significant increase in the irregularities detected. Doesn't the government think that you should do the same with the medical-specialist care and would the Minister like to make this request to the NZa?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u39	There are two VVD spokesmen, but the four interruptions apply to them together. I'll just say that just in case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u40	I was so looking forward to eight interruptions, Madam President, but four interruptions will be fine. I shall go back a bit in Mrs Leijten's speech. She believes that in the detection of care fraud, the prosecution should not be at the back but at the front. That sounds very firm and that comes from somewhere too, namely the feeling that we really need to take firm action against fraud. That's what the VVD and the SP share. I return to the point of criminal law, which is the ultimum remedium. The D.A. is also aware of the principle of opportunity. The D.A. can just say we're not doing anything about this case. And that's the end of a case. That's the way it should be at the end of the chain. The D.A. must also assess whether or not it detects the most serious cases. That's how criminal law works. That is why, because we cannot solve all social abuses through criminal law. If you have that in mind, is it not very good that we first try to reduce, prevent and deal with fraud in all kinds of ways, as the NZA does with heavy fines, and only then let the public prosecutor be brought to the attention of the public prosecutor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u41	I asked for a response from the Minister because I would like to know what its implications are. From the debate we have had on Antony, I recall that there may be coincidence. Sometimes you can take something down under administrative law, but it's also criminally prosecutable. In those cases, the D.A. would be up to it. I note that a false declaration is a violation of the law and that it is therefore criminal. We need more standards in the sector. You don't ask a standard with a question and answer list with questions like: can you declare one night if someone hasn't stayed the night? That's not gonna do us any good. That's not only ridicul, but of course it's too soft as well. I see that there may be a capacity problem at the State's Attorney's Office, of course, there is also a cut in costs, but I do think that a medical specialist or a financial manager who wants to be declared higher because there is a need for turnover should also be able to be held personally liable. And you don't do that with administrative law. That's why I'm looking for the D.A.'s move. I would like to hear what the objections to this are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u42	It's a little nuanced, and it's a little sharper. I get the nuance. Let the cabinet respond to it if it is possible and sensible. I also understand the call that you sometimes want to look for individuals. That would probably be the point of criminal law; I understand that too. After the NZa debate, there is a difference of insight between the SP and the VVD. The SP says: if the NZA imposes a fine of 25 million euros at St. Antony Hospital, it will get away with it. I don't think the hospital got away with that at all. It has had a much higher fine than the criminal lawman could have ever imposed, and that has had a huge regulatory effect for the whole hospital sector. If there is any administrative action, we should not pretend that nothing is happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u43	Following the debate on what happened at the Antony, on the cooperation or non-cooperation of the NZA and the Public Prosecutor, a revision of the cooperation protocol was also made at the request of the Court. If I read that protocol of cooperation between the NZa and the D.A. correctly, then the case of St. Antonius Hospital should not have been dismissed by administrative law without informing the D.A. It happened the way it did, but I think it's wiser to look at criminal law more often, and that call is broader. The balance is found between a substantial recovery of the pgb from the individual pgb holder when the money is spent unlawfully, and simply letting entire medical groups upcode it. That relationship is totally crooked. That's where it comes from. Unfortunately, the pgb has recently been called in one breath with fraud. I've already mentioned the 7% that showed up in De Telegraaf last week. For the most part, there is no fraud among pgb holders and it is indeed a solution for people to manage their own care under control. But fraud is wrong and needs to be tackled. For that, we need to look more closely at where it goes wrong. The right of trekking does not prevent organised crime. Malicious agencies that take control of people and also steal their pgb, such as Pyxis and Ascensio and other agencies, can continue. They'll take care of it administratively fine and cash out just the pgb. Is it wise to give people who cannot direct their own lives a pgb and thereby make them financially responsible for their own care? Does the Secretary of State wish to give an overview of the care provision available through the pgb for target groups vulnerable to financial exploitation? Wouldn't it be good to see if the providers can place this in care in kind, removing the financial risk from the people? Is the Secretary of State also prepared not to present the account to those who have already been victims of this crime in cases where the inspection or the prosecution intervenes in cases of crime, fraud, financial exploitation and so on? I've just asked the VVD to do the same thing. Finally. As far as we are concerned, care fraud cannot be separated from the completely idiotic funding system of our care. This not only leads to chaos and unverifiable accounts, but also leads to fraud. It also seems as if nobody benefits from detecting fraud, as Mrs Bouwmeester has already mentioned. We are seeing a decline in the number of checks. Some health insurers do not appear to provide any data on the control efforts at all. How is that possible, Minister? An important asset of this cabinet for tackling fraud is the responsibility of insured persons. In doing so, the cabinet relies on the moral awareness of insured persons who receive an account at home and then find it very pricey, but what does the investigation of the National Ombudsman show that was presented a week and a half ago? Those bills are unreadable! It is always a solution afterwards. Suspicking pgbs while you're running big hospital boys isn't a good signal. It is also not a good signal to abuse care fraud in order, for example, to eliminate medical professional secrecy. We are going to talk about this when we talk about the Fraud Act. I think the priorities are wrong. Try to avoid fraud, make the funding system much simpler, put the detection in one hand with regard to the SP and make sure that those who commit self-enrichment through our premiums are really dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, the PVV Group opened an online hotline for fraud in the care to map the mess with declarations. Since then a lot has been investigated and more has surfaced than just the tip of the iceberg. The pgb approach found a suspicion of fraud in 7% of home visits made by the healthcare office. Now that 7% is exactly the percentage that the European Healthcare Fraud and Corruption Network has been calling in its publications for years; so this is not surprising. Does the Minister agree with me that on average 7% is likely to be cheated throughout the healthcare sector? If not, why not? Graaiers are not only there with the pgb offices. For example, the report by Zorgverzekerings Nederland (ZN) for 2013 shows that most suspected frauds are among the ggz. Will the Minister examine the hospitals and independent clinics, the pharmacists and the psychiatrists, the dentists and the general practitioners as well as the pgb-holders? If so, by when? If not, why not? 7% means that every year 5 billion is lost in fraud. That's $450 per contributor. The most effective way to reduce the cost of care without affecting the quality of care or access to care is to detect these billions. The health insurers are primarily responsible for detecting fraud. However, the Minister had the hospitals do their own research first. Specialists and hospital administrators were allowed to determine for themselves how many incorrect claims they have made to the health insurance companies. There was a hurry in that investigation, because the approval of the annual accounts depended on it. This really has a "bigger approves its own meat" content. How carefully and credible does the Minister consider this investigation to be? Does she really believe that an external auditor should provide insight into light-day fraud, cosmetic consultations or a uterus that is removed twice? The own investigation into fraud did not yield billions, but a small 300 million. There is also talk not of fraud, but of mistakes. They found 1.2% of false declarations. That is very different from the average of 7%. And no one was arrested for it, no one was reprimanded for it. The amount is settled among themselves with the health insurance companies and everyone promises to get better. If that is the approach the Minister envisages in the coming years, perhaps she should take a look at the Secretary of State's pgb approach. Physical control by the healthcare office proves to be extremely effective. Why not physical checks by health insurers at the hospitals and at the ggz institutions? Are the health insurance companies actually tackling the fraud? We are still getting messages from patients who call their health insurance companies in vain about an incorrect declaration. They're being sent back to the hospital, or they're being told not to whimper like that. The patient is, in fact, the only one who has an insight into what happened to him, but is simply not taken seriously by the health insurance companies. It is very nice that there is now an insightful care note, but if you then neatly indicate that something is not right, this must of course be followed up. Otherwise, as a patient, do you feel betrayed, to speak with the Ombudsman's words? What's the Minister gonna do about this? She has to care about this, don't she, like me? It is clear that we have a complicated declaration system. That it is too complicated and that it makes mistakes too easy, something needs to be done about it. Simpler rules and clear guidelines can prevent errors, but how do we get the incentive to upcoding out? As long as it yields money by scaling the patient a step higher, it will continue to exist. Is the DOT system being investigated for simplification? Mistakes aren't just made by accident, by the way. Last year a report showed that medical specialists often make mistakes aware. They deliberately violate the declaration rules, because the chance of getting caught is so low. They'll get away with it anyway. Worst-case scenario, they have to pay back an amount. According to that report, only harsh sanctions would impress, such as fines. As far as I'm concerned, let's take it one step further and get a note in BIG registry. What about the odds of the specialists and the fines? Can the Minister respond to that? Does she agree with the PVV that sending away the board might be more effective than a fine? Finally, I would like to propose a reporting obligation for carers, a duty to report suspicions of fraud. We all think fraud is unacceptable. It's a criminal offence, it's a scam, and it's detrimental to patients, because it makes care unnecessarily expensive. Anyone who works in the care and sees someone breaking the declaration rules must report it to the NZa. Healthcare insurers have recently been subject to a reporting obligation when signs of fraud are received. Now let the Minister also introduce a reporting obligation for signals about fraud. We really need to figure out every single euro. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. Fraud in care is the ax to people's trust in care. For this reason, the CDA believes that fraudsters should be dealt with hard. Every Dutchman pays a lot of premium for care and that money cannot end up in the pockets of fraudsters. Only after the many investigations by the VWS Minister about the extent of care fraud, the Netherlands is still in the dark. We just can't figure it out. It is striking that ghost care, not delivering care, has not been included in the studies. Then, of course, it is important that health insurers and health offices make the fight against fraud a top priority. How many people work in the marketing department and how many in the fraud department of a health insurance company? I'd like to get an overview per health insurance provider. I'm guessing ahead with the answer: I think that a health insurance company employs more people in the marketing department than in the fraud department. It is not for nothing that the Dutch Healthcare Authority concludes that healthcare insurers and healthcare offices are not yet sufficiently active in combating fraud. How are the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State going to change this? The NZa also indicates that it is not worthwhile for health insurers to fight fraud at all. Mrs Bouwmeester said the same thing. What about the NZa's suggestion to adjust the risk settlement in that respect? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Of course, the insured person, the person who receives the bill, is also the best auditor to check whether fraud has taken place. He knows what happened at the hospital or a dentist. The NZa writes that health insurance companies are actually too passive in this. They do not yet sufficiently remind their insured persons of the possibility of checking accounts. I also receive regular e-mails from people who say: I have called my health insurance provider, but apparently it is too much trouble to find out if this is not provided care, while the costs are deducted from my own risk. How is the Minister going to do more about this? The CDA Group read the headline printed in chocolate letters above the press release that of the 30,000 house visits to pgb-holders 2,100 suspected fraud have been detected. Isn't the Secretary of State ashamed that only eleven cases are under investigation at the SZW Inspection? Eleven out of 2,100? And let that be just the information that was not contained in that press release, namely that of the 2,100 serious suspicions of fraud only eleven are further investigated by the SZW inspection. The Inspection SZW writes in a letter in 2013 "I thank the State Secretary for the fact that in the Lower House we received this letter two years after that she sends all excess cases back to the health fraud rally point or to the police, depending on where the report came from. The CDA would like to receive an overview from the State Secretary of the number of reports that the Inspection SZW has returned to the police or health fraud rally point since 2012. So how much is left on the shelf? I agree with the Secretary of State, who wrote this, that it is poignant that of the 2,100 cases of serious suspicions of fraud, two thirds are likely to have been committed by malicious care agencies. In 2009 the House of Representatives already adopted a motion from the CDA and the PvdA, which must end. Two thirds of the 2,100 cases concern malicious care agencies. So that's 1,400 cases. The inspection itself states that these are very vulnerable people, who are often also illiterate. The threats from the crooked care agencies are terrible, too. Let me give you a few examples. In this way, they ensure that there is a link between the rental agreement and the care agreement. So the budget holder cannot cancel the care because she is on the street. Horrible. The health care agency takes the cell phones so the budget holder can't call family and friends that things aren't going well. What kind of country are we living in? It also happens that the health care office opens an account with the budget holder, with the health care office ticking the part where no accounts are sent over the mail. The crooked agency eventually sees all the bills. This has got to stop. These crooked care agencies need to stop. What has the Secretary of State done since 2009 to eliminate these crooked care agencies? How many more are there? How can he deal with these crooks more directly? I come to speak about the capacity of the SZW inspection and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I've already brought it up: the 11 cases. The Inspection SZW works hard, I see, but has meanwhile been given an additional task, namely to tackle the care fraud under the Health Insurance Act. How many cases has the inspection been dealt with by now? How many hours are available per year to actually tackle this task? Of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office is at the end of the funnel. We have already had an interrupting debate on this. In 2013, the CDA received a good overview of the number of cases under consideration, the number of cases brought forward and the number of cases concluded. Actually, I'd like to receive an update on how things stand. We have no idea at this time how hard the D.A. is on care fraud. We all know it squeaks and cracks at the D.A.'s office. I assume that the VWS Minister simply has that list on her desk, because of course she keeps it up to date. It would be nice if we had an updated list for the second term. I'm closing up. The CDA believes that fraudsters deserve a tough approach. After all, they take advantage of the care money that every Dutchman works hard for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, where a lot of collective money is involved, as in healthcare, fraud is always lurking. The VVD has a huge aversion to care fraud. Care money is money that has been collected collectively to be spent on care, and that must not disappear in the pockets of fraudsters. It is good to hear that this opinion is widely shared in the Chamber. Combating fraud is of great importance, but it is not easy at the same time. In fact, there are far more interests in the care sector than just the importance of the fight against fraud. Unfortunately, these interests are not always compatible. On the one hand, almost everyone wants to put an end to over-regulation in healthcare, so that the professional can do his or her work in as much freedom as possible. On the other hand, the fight against fraud requires rules. The VVD believes it is important that we take measures to take account of these interests and find a good balance every time. Other speakers also said that health insurers have an important role to play in detecting care fraud. They are stimulated to do so and the detection of fraud therefore pays off for the insurers. However, there are things that really need to be improved. If health insurance companies have detected fraud with a provider... I'm about to tell you about it, because Mrs Bruins Slot wants to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u47	We could have waited, but go ahead, Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u48	The VVD and the CDA share the view that fraud needs to be tackled hard. However, I always get the impression from the reports of the Dutch Health Authority that it does not seem to pay the health insurance companies to tackle fraud. I can hear the VVD talking about that now. On what basis does my colleague in the VVD base his statement that tackling fraud for health insurance companies pays off?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u49	It is clear that tackling fraud pays off. After all, health insurers themselves have become responsible for all the risks they take. Each euro they collect from fraud is pure profit for the insurer, and thus for the contributor and for the amount of the premium. Insurers therefore have an interest in it. If you look closely at the NZa's reports, you will see that insurers do a lot to ensure that there is a legitimate declaration. In the last year, 2.3 billion of false declarations were initially returned. On the front side, therefore, a lot is being done by insurers to prevent and make non-declaration of incorrect declarations. Then you see that there is a further analysis with an additional group that declares. Part of it is subject to further analysis and fraud. You're already in it. This also shows how complicated this playing field is and shows that there is a difference between real fraud and false declarations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u50	The problem the NZa raises is that the health insurance companies in the settlement are ultimately a thief of their own wallet when they tackle fraud. That is why I asked the Minister the same question. Indeed, what is striking in the declaration scandal that has taken place is that billions have been looked at, but no case of fraud has come out. We haven't seen a single case of fraud in the self-control that hospitals have done. How does Mr Rutte explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u51	This has partly to do with the fact that fraud is really a criminal term. Deliberately and deliberately cheating is really something different from the way you declare it, even though it doesn't feel right to declare it wrong because rules are unclear or because mistakes are made in the way you declare it. I share Mrs Bruins Slot's view that it is very often declared at the top and often not at the bottom. That pattern isn't right. It is good that we are doing everything we can to break those patterns, so that there is a legitimate declaration. If we really pin that on a person or on an organisation, and if we really want to get that criminally qualified as fraud, so if we just focus on that, we will not, by definition, benefit from it socially. It would be worth something if this were to happen more often, but it is not the case that that would immediately produce a lot more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u52	Over the past two years, the VVD Minister has increased its own risk with the support of the VVD. The care premium has also been increased. And now Mr Rutte comes to the conclusion that he might have been better off dealing with fraud in order to keep the care affordable. Of course, we are pleased with that, but why does Mr Rutte just come up with this now? Two years ago, we were standing here, and then he said it wasn't so bad. What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u53	I do not believe that the VVD has ever said that fraud should not be dealt with. I just indicated that an insurer who is committed to fraud is not a thief of his own wallet. That's just money for the insurance company. So that's good to do. However, if you qualify everything as fraud, as the PVV does, and say that all the money has to go to the bad guys, then that doesn't really pay off the billions you want. What really makes a lot of social benefits and what also happens a lot on the front is to make sure that the wrong behavior stops and a false declaration doesn't come in. There is a lot of focus on this and that ultimately also ensures moderate premium development. That is already happening, and we are in favour of it. That can always be better; I will say something about that in a moment. If we can really catch the bad guys, which means criminal law, we always have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u54	If I table a motion in which I ask for the premium to be reduced and to make the money back with the tough fraud that Mr Rutte and I advocate, he will say: I support that motion, I go for it, I fully support the Minister's approach? Or does he say: I have little confidence in the Minister's approach and do not support the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u55	If this motion looks exactly like the motion made two years ago, it suggests that there is 5 billion in criminal fraud and that the premium will fall if we use it. I don't share that opinion. The share that you can qualify as real fraud that you can grab and prove is many times smaller than that amount. When it comes to trying to keep those EUR 5 billion of false declarations out of the door and, where possible, to pick up the bad guys, we agree. However, if the motion looks the same as it did two years ago, I am afraid we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u56	We all know that the VVD has a warm heart for health insurers. But I don't quite understand the argument that fraud pays off. In fact, we have received an NZa report containing a table on the extent of proven fraud, fraud investigations and checks in relation to the burden of damage. This clearly shows that tracking costs more money than proven fraud. So where does the Rutte get the idea that the health insurance companies are doing a good job of fraud detection and that they still get money? The state of the NZa shows that it costs a lot more money to check for fraud than it does to ultimately detected and thus recovered fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u57	This has partly to do with the fact that this interrupting debate is taking place before I wanted to say something about health insurers. Perhaps Mrs Leijten and others will still be served. Apart from that, fraud pays off. This is not just because the total effort to take out the last piece that you can qualify as fraud will produce more euros than you put into it. It's about the overall approach. You also need to avoid false declarations, and do a further analysis of them. If you look at the whole table in the same report in this way, you can see that this way we keep some 2.3 billion out of the door and we keep another 33 million, some 9 million of which are proven fraud, out of the door with a further analysis. This overall approach must be implemented by insurers. They do that for all of us, because it keeps the premium manageable and ensures that the care money is also spent on care. That's important. That can always be better, and I have a suggestion for that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u58	I think it's a good thing it's been explained that way. The investigation costs a lot of money and proof is tricky. The final result is a lot less than the costs incurred. The bottleneck is caused by letting it be a task of health insurers, because they do not want to incur those costs. But what does the VVD think about the fact that there are health insurers who do not yet give an insight into their detection activities? That's what the NZa finds out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u59	That's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u60	I hear Mr Rutte say all the time that it is worthwhile for health insurance companies to catch fraud and that is why they are doing their best. However, the Dutch Healthcare Authority itself writes: I think I'm going to quote the following: "This puts insurers at a disadvantage for every euro of fraud that they detect but which cannot be told. Insurers can therefore under certain circumstances experience too small an incentive to recover and report detected fraud" because they cannot reimburse it. How can Mr Rutte draw that conclusion when our supervisor sends such a completely different signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u61	I think I have just explained it to Mrs Leijten: it is part of the overall approach of insurers. You can isolate fraud to the criminal part and tell yourself to focus on it. Then it may not be worth it. However, it is part of the overall approach to ensure that what is declared is legitimate and all is true. In that case, the fight against fraud is an important conclusion. You have to do it as an insurance company. However, you have to do it as part of an overall approach. Then it pays, if you do it right, if you make it final. I agree that it can be done better and that there are insurers who are doing too little. Maybe we should also settle things between insurance companies. That's what I'm about to ask some questions about. That's what makes it easier and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u62	Does Mr Rutte agree with me that if you protect a house from burglars, you should lock it firmly both on the front door and on the back door? I hear Mr Rutte now saying: we are now putting a rather tight lock on the front door, namely by doing more to prevent fraud. However, does he agree with me that in the end it must be rewarding for everyone in the chain to tackle fraud and that it cannot be the case that health insurers leave it because they end up suffering damage themselves? It's not about health insurance money. We are talking about money from every Dutchman who pays for the care. We want that money back if it is not properly spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u63	We are in total agreement on this. This approach should also pay as much as possible. That's important. However, it is particularly important to look at the overall package. That's right, you shouldn't open the front door and the back door. I don't do that at home either. Insurance guys don't do that either. They are very strict at the front and also have an approach down the chain. It is true that one has a somewhat better approach than the other. And sometimes it may also be too isolated and too little in cooperation. We think we can do better than that. Maybe it should be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u64	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u65	If health insurers have detected fraud with a provider, it would be good if that information is always shared with other insurers. Sharing information, for example by making anonymous declarations alongside each other, can help to ensure that a doctor who declares a total of 90 consultations to several insurers one day falls through the basket. Is it currently permitted for health insurers to share information on this scale in order to combat fraud? Is it allowed that they might match files to ensure that more stands out in terms of patterns of fraud? I imagine there are a few sensitive boundaries between them. I'd like to know what you can do. If it is not possible, can it still be made possible to encourage cooperation between health insurance companies in the fight against fraud? Unfortunately, in addition to drivers and doctors, there are also patients and insured persons who fraud. The insurer who finds that a customer is cheating can disloy it. Then this insurer is free of this customer. However, because we have an acceptance obligation in our country, this customer can then just walk back into the next insurer; he cannot be prevented. Another compulsory insurance, car insurance, has found a special solution: insurers are warned against fraudulent customers and may refuse them, but in order to provide for insurance obligations, a separate insurer has been set up, Rialto, where the fraudster can still insure himself against an adjusted premium. The VVD finds it an interesting idea to introduce similar "last resort" insurance in the Health Insurance Act. In doing so, the fraudsters will have access to care, but they will be much better monitored. An adjusted premium, possibly higher, may also be considered. After a period of five years, for example, they should be welcome to a regular health insurance provider. Is the Minister prepared to examine the advantages and disadvantages of such a "last resort" insurance and indicate whether and how such insurance can be introduced in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have a household announcement: we are standing here with two spokesmen, because we are talking about both curative and long-term care. I would like to say a few words about the latter. Those who cheat with care money, steal from every Dutchman, undermine solidarity in care and do so over the back of very vulnerable people. The latter is the worst of all, especially in long-term care. Fraud is therefore much more than a financial problem. It's a moral problem and it's morally reprehensible. The VVD believes that long-term care has taken good steps in recent years. Partly on our initiative, laws are now subject to a fraud test in advance, so that the system and our laws are fraud proof. However, we must continue to do everything possible to continue to tackle fraud in all areas of long-term care, such as those of the caregivers who declare more care than is provided, those of the institutions that unduly charge people services and those of the upcoding. Fortunately, there are and are now taking great steps. However, we must also continue to fight against pgb fraud. By far the vast majority of pgb-holders are in good faith and show day in, day in, day out how valuable that instrument is. It is precisely in order to keep that going that we have to take tough action against fraud. For this reason, the VVD considers it wise to check whether this was due to fraud in the case of people who renounced a pgb after the introduction of the right to draw. We are pleased that the Secretary of State has responded to our call for budgetary treatment to continue house visits in the case of pgb fraud. When you talk to the people who make those house calls, you're terrified by what you hear from what they see. Let me give you an example. A mother managed the budget for her child. A small part of it she spent to hire an uncle who sat a bit next to the boy. Of the rest, she was all going to do nice things to herself. This brings us to the essence of the problem in dealing with pgb fraud: if the healthcare office wants to recover the money in such a case, it cannot go to the mother, but ends up with the budget holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u67	We both attach great importance to the fight against fraud. It is good that Mr Van 't Wout says that pgb-holders are often very vulnerable people. However, if 15,000 people refrain from caring, his first thought is fraud. I was surprised by that suggestion. Is it not true that among those 15,000 people are illiterate people, which is also the subject of the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u68	If you split that 15,000, there's gonna be lots of things coming out, including that group. There will also be administrative errors underneath. Every year you have such a cleanup of the entire file. The right of trekking, with the support of the entire Chamber once introduced by a CDA Secretary of State, had, of course, the idea of preventing fraud at the front. You can see that sometimes people don't ask for a pgb anymore. It seems to me right to look at whether those were people who were cheating or people who were on top of those horrible desks we were just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u69	These are vulnerable people, often illiterate people, as the Inspectorate of Social Affairs and Employment pointed out. They are often unable to fill out forms themselves. If we then have to look at why people do not care, isn't the first question that has to come first, or is it people who need very much care, but who are out of the boat because they can't handle the huge amount of paperwork? Should we not put that question first, and then, of course, consider whether there is fraud underneath it? Shouldn't we look at the most vulnerable people in between? Isn't that what care is meant for: to provide health care to vulnerable people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u70	Sounds like an open door to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u71	Do I understand that Mr Van 't Wout is going to investigate the people who have applied and subsequently withdrawn him, so those are people who in fact didn't cheat, but in the eyes of Mr Van 't Wout might have wanted to fraud? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u72	No, Mrs. Klever doesn't understand. We have introduced the right of draw with the support of the entire Chamber. It's been discussed for years. That was meant to make it unattractive for fraudsters to apply for a pgb. If you then see that people no longer apply for pgb as soon as you enter it, it is justified to consider whether there are fraudulent cases. That was the whole idea behind it. There will be all kinds of other reasons for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u73	So Mr. Van't Wout says so. He says it himself now. The people who wanted to do it, he's going to investigate. Shouldn't Mr Van 't Wout go after the actual fraud instead of the people who didn't file the application? This is crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u74	This isn't about people who wanted to do it. It's about people who had a pgb and now they don't want it anymore. So that's what's in there, too. Moreover, the fraud approach is always broader than this alone. I find it very strange that the Chamber should set up a system to combat fraud, and then we see that people leave it, and then the Chamber gets angry if I suggest that it is because of precisely the reason we introduced that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u75	The many changes in care also make it very complicated for people. I feel much more for the CDA approach. Let's do an analysis of those 15,000 people. Maybe there's more, maybe there's less. It's a hell of a mess at the SVB, so who knows if the numbers are right? Let's see if these people turned out okay. I'm concerned that there may be people who are now deprived of care. It brings me to another question. Mr. Van 't Wout says that the right to draw fights fraud. But just those crooked desks that take control of vulnerable people and steal the pgb, will that right of trekking just be able to properly comply with the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u76	Maybe I could take up both points. I fully agree with Mrs Leijten, of course, but I think you should do it. The Secretary of State also said he wants to know exactly why people don't want pgb anymore. There will be mistakes and poignant situations. However, it seems perfectly logical to me, if you introduce an instrument to combat fraud, that you are looking at whether it is in the middle. I think that should be just As far as Mrs Leijten's second question is concerned, I am in favour of the right to draw, but I really do not think that we are just going to take out all the fraud, also because we are dealing here very often with organized crime, and therefore very professional crime. So against those kind of clubs it will remain a constant struggle. If you come up with a measure to combat fraud and crime, you'll always see that the clever crooks come up with something else. Then you're gonna have to deal with that. I think that is what I heard Mrs Leijten talk about, and I think that the pain is really going to be with those crooks, if we catch those fraudsters in the end. That is my key point for this debate. I'm gonna talk about that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u77	It's nice that we can hang out in that together. Then we can actually do something for people who have become victims of financial exploitation, because that is what it is. But at those pgb desks, we're always late. It's always after. Now I have asked the Secretary of State to make an analysis of the pgb providers who are taking over the direction of very vulnerable people. A lot of it's good, too. I really don't want to put them all on the suspect bench. But isn't it possible to let those vulnerable people get the care without taking the financial risk? Wouldn't it be good if we got an overview of that, made by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u78	If that's possible, I think it's an attractive thought. I think we should at least have that discussion right. If you're handing out a pgb, we need to make sure someone can direct it. That is also a point that Mrs Leijten has just mentioned. So the more insight we can get into that, the better. Indeed, if we can destroy those clubs around the budget holder with more information, we must not fail to do so. Especially when it comes to people who don't control themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u79	I just wanted to come back to the 15,000 people who are now out of the picture, to put it that way. Mr. Van 't Wout says we need to see why they're not applying for a pgb anymore. Of course, we have seen every year that a large group no longer called on the pgb or replaced it for example by care in kind. If you look at which group it is about, wouldn't it be important for you to be able to analyse who in the years before cut it off? Otherwise you don't have any comparison material and you don't know what's coming through the draw right and who for other reasons renounces the pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u80	I hear this only a bit as a call to make the right of draw as effective and objective as possible. I always think that's wise. In this case, I would like to examine the non-response, whether it is a number of 10,000 or 15,000. Even if you only encounter ten people who were probably involved and who have waived the application because of the right to draw, then you have to take it by the lurks and see if you can't recover the money. That is why we came up with this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u81	I am also saying this because I am sorry that the emphasis is being placed on the fraud side. Like CDA and SP, I find it a pity that this is what this is all about, when you really have to look at who is out of the game because people have been cheating in the past. How do you get a good look at it? As far as I'm concerned, that's the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u82	To be honest, I cannot quite follow the accusation that you are putting the emphasis on fraud in a debate on fraud. Anyway, let's see what else is possible. I have been able to say a lot about this through the interruptions. We have seen the examples, from the family circle to the healthcare providers. Mrs Leijten mentioned the example of Ascensio, in which budget holders take care in good faith. There is fraud there and bad care is being taken. The tent closes and where is the money eventually made? With the budget holders, who can't help it. I know it's complicated to fix this, but I think there's really a fundamental error in our system. It must be at the forefront, especially in the case of pgb fraud, that we are tackling the real crooks and not the innocent budget holders. My conclusion fits in with that same framework. We've talked about this before. I think it is very important that we continue to focus our efforts on the people who are helping to make fraud possible. As I said earlier, it is often organised crime. For example, doctors are also bribed to issue false indications. Is it possible to simply apply disciplinary law to such a doctor? So the main line is: tackling fraud hard and above all making the real crooks feel it in their wallets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr. Chairman. Last week there were big articles in the newspaper and there was a press release from the Ministry about fraud with pgbs, just when the pgb holders were awake at night because of the chaos at the Social Insurance Bank. Because of that publicity, the pgb-holders were in a bad light, at least that's how they felt. My first question to the Secretary of State is: what is he doing to the crooked care agencies that often cause fraud? I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he was not entirely happy with this timing and its effects afterwards. Of course, fraud must always be dealt with. Over 300 residents of nursing and nursing homes received a total of €188,000 for care that was wrongly charged to them. That was for doing the laundry or for a pedicure treatment, while that care had already been reimbursed from long-term care. These amounts sometimes amounted to up to €4,000 per person. Research by the Consumers' Association revealed that the information to clients about what they had to pay and what they did not have to pay themselves was concise, ambiguous and sometimes even wrong. In the meantime, sixteen health care institutions have been told by the NZa that they should explain all this well to their clients. They have complied, but no action has been taken. It is important that it is made clear whether there is a mistake, whether there is intent, or whether the rules may not be clear. If it turns out there's a setup, then you have to be able to act hard. Anything that is wrongly declared will be at the expense of the contributor. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. How do we ensure that the definition of fraud is clear and that there are sufficient methods to detect and demonstrate it? In order to gain more insight into the fraud in healthcare, the Minister asked the NZa in 2013 to investigate this in the Health Insurance Act and in the General Law Special Sickness Costs. This has resulted in a bunch of reports, but in fact they say very little about the extent of care fraud. I give a few phrases in the summary report: "The scope of the quantitative part of the investigation is an irregular declaration, not a fraudulent declaration." So we only see the tip of the iceberg, because we only see part of the wrong declarations. And: "With our investigation, we cannot determine a care fraud rate for the Netherlands." In short, what did the research actually do? Irregularities have been detected, but it has not been established what is or is not fraudulent. This requires more research, it is said, but was it not the purpose of this investigation to find out what the extent of the fraud was? That is why I would like to know from the Minister whether this study meets the expectations she had of it. Has the NZa indicated at an earlier stage that it is unable to present any conclusions on the extent of the fraud and has the objective perhaps been revised? What follow-up are we gonna do now? In order to prevent fraud, rules must be clear and not be subject to multiple interpretations. That's why laws are being tested for fraud-proofing. According to Zorgverzekerings Nederland, NZa legislation is still not sufficiently tested for feasibility and controllability. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. How does she feel about that? The Nederlandse Vereniging van Ziekenhuizen also experiences problems with complex rules. It states that incorrect declarations in hospitals are the result of this. Our own investigation into the hospital accounts shows that 276 million has been declared wrong; these are not deliberate errors, the hospitals say. How does the Minister feel about that? Good control can bring things to light and it has a deterrent and preventive effect. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands annually examines the scale of savings made as a result of control efforts, but not all health insurance companies provide their data. Shouldn't this be an obligation? How can we ensure that all health insurance companies make efforts to ensure that those data are available? In other words, how do we make the fraud investigation pay off for the health insurance companies? Another way to increase control is to involve the patient. This too is a recommendation from the NZa. We have talked about this much more often here: you need to get an insightful account. What's going on with that, anyway? Are those accounts transparent by now? At the end of the chain lies the detection and enforcement. That tracking task is now joining the SZW inspection for the time being. That's a temporary solution, not a final choice. My question is: how long is this temporary solution going to take and where do the rulers ultimately want to go with that inspection? What about the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office in dealing with fraud in the care sector? Since this has already been mentioned, let me put it briefly. The investigation of the NZa has a number of limitations. So she could not detect so-called ghost care. That is concern that has never been delivered but is declared. What possibilities does the Minister see for this? Can it indicate the fraud sensitivities it sees in the various sectors? This is not addressed in the latest progress report. For example, oral care treatments for children are declared, whereas those are usually intended for adults because they involve crowns, root canal treatments and dental prostheses. There seem to be incentives for ggz to treat just over 800 minutes. The drawing rights are not sufficient to prevent fraud. I think it is very important for all sectors to be involved in the plan of action to come to the Chamber this spring. I would like to hear from the rulers whether this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr. Chairman. Fraud is unacceptable. It takes solidarity out of our healthcare system. The task of the public authorities is to promote and protect this solidarity. Tackling fraud and unjustified declarations must therefore be high on the agenda of this cabinet. If fraud is committed, people lose confidence in healthcare providers and ultimately in the entire healthcare system. My group is concerned about this. That is why it is important to tackle fraud in the care sector firmly. Millions of declarations are sent every year. Earlier, the amount of 1.6 billion came along. So 1.6 billion in inaccuracies have come to light. These false declarations are far from always fraud. In the case of fraud, rules are deliberately violated for the sake of own financial gain. Often the cause of the errors made lies with the declaration system itself. This system has become increasingly complicated over the years. Do the leaders agree with my group that we should also take a fundamental look at our system? However, the question that needs to be asked today is how to get rid of calculating behavior. Let me give you an example: let a patient come in just a little longer, so that a more expensive dbc can be declared. According to a CPB report, this resulted in the treatment of approximately 11% to 13% of patients until a higher rate is reached. That report was about the curative ggz, but I do not have the impression that it is different in other parts of the care. This leads to unnecessary costs of care. And will this ultimately benefit patients or even harm them? This is the year of transparency. Transparency of care notes is good, but is it also effective in the end? I agree with all the groups that have asked questions about the position of health insurers. Shouldn't health insurance companies take much more action to combat fraud? I'll be on the pgb. The Christian Union has always fought for the pgb as an instrument for self-direction in care. This must not be overshadowed by fraud. Together with the PvdA Group, I have put questions to the House about a conciliation agency in Houten. Unfortunately, that's not the only agency. It's just these mediation agencies that often go wrong. It seems that the prosecution has been given so many cases that this case has not been dealt with because it would not add new case law. The Secretary of State also suggests in his letter that the Inspection SZW, which is in charge of research, leaves a lot of things to be desired. How many cases are we talking about? Does the Secretary of State share my view that the prosecution should always take action if there appears to be fraud? Can the Secretary of State outline what actions he has taken to prevent people from being subjected to pgb fraud by a mediation agency? Is the Secretary of State prepared to stop mediation agencies that also provide care? Where can people go to report fraud? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the pgb will continue in any way? The suspension of the pgb would be dramatic. What role do the care agencies have in this? Care agencies aren't known for their front door being wide open. Then how can they support people? Care offices are also placed in a position to further provide grounds for refusal of a pgb. Honestly, I don't have that much faith in that. Too often I hear that care offices, but also municipalities, have a discouragement policy for pgbs. What guarantees can the Secretary of State give that there are no unnecessary thresholds? Also, dbc offices that advise hospitals to declare correctly are unfortunately lucrative. What's the Minister gonna do about this? I'm rounding up. A system that is both very complex and driven by production evokes improper use over itself. The question is to what extent more rules and more or stricter watchdogs are going to help here. The way of formalizing and Juridizing all too often leads to the search for the boundaries of the law. The care is not unique in that. The Christian Union believes that morality should be at the centre again. My question to the cabinet is whether it would not be good if the supervisory boards were much more aware of the standards and values in the supervision they carry out. Standards and values and morals must be put back at the centre of care. I would like a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-4.u85	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister and the Secretary of State have indicated that they need to consult. They're gonna need a little longer suspension. I think it would be wise to combine that suspension with the lunch break. At 12.30 p.m., we start work on the arrangements. For the public gallery, the debate will resume at about 12.45 p.m.
