ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Chamber passed a law of Minister Asscher setting the maximum duration of WW at two years. D66 supported that law, because the longer people are unemployed, the less likely they will get to work, they will find another job. That is why we must make every effort to help people get back to work quickly. Now the polder has decided to extend the duration of WW in collective agreements. That's what the polder itself is about, of course. The polder is about the collective agreement. However, I do not think it is a good idea. It costs jobs and money. As far as D66 is concerned, this money can be put into higher wages or additional education, because prevention is better than cure. However, the polder not only wants to extend the WW to three years, but also wants the UWV, the implementation organisation of this minister, to implement it. That is, of course, the reverse world. The government adopts a law and then has to help to undo it. That's actually why I only have one question. The Central Planning Office has calculated that this will in practice lead to tens of thousands less jobs. Can the Minister assure me, in response to today's article in De Telegraaf, that the government is not cooperating on a measure that costs tens of thousands of jobs and that the UWV will not therefore carry out that longer WW?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. An important agreement in the social agreement was that employers and workers would work together to ensure that people whose work threatens to disappear do not end up in benefits but are accompanied by retraining to another job. That is much better for the people themselves and much better for the companies. We have agreed to ask the ESC for advice on how to organise this. What's it gonna take? That advice has now come. We must come up with a response to that. That's what we're talking about. One of the elements of the social agreement was that we took the public-funded WW back to two years, and that the social partners themselves decide whether to secure a third year in the collective agreement as was the case in the past. They're free to do that. They don't have to do that, but they can do that. The cabinet will then declare such agreements generally binding. During the discussion of the Work and Security Act in this Chamber, I said at the time that I could imagine anything that would help UWV to provide information You need information if you want to do such an insurance but that the UWV has the hands full with its own work and its own change agenda. Every change that we come up with here almost every day must be implemented in a proper manner. Implementation must therefore lie with other parties. This is now being discussed by the parties who conclude collective agreements. Once we have agreed on how we will respond to the ESC opinion, we will send our response to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	I do not know whether I should be happy or disappointed with this answer. The minister actually says it's not the UWV and I love that very much. Let him say that very clearly. We have been waiting for more than six months for the cabinet's response, but the minister says today that the UWV or any other government institution is not going to carry out the third year. Is that what the Minister says today? That would be in line with what Mr Zijlstra said during the political discussions: that is a public provision and we are not going to do that. I understand, therefore, that the Minister for Social Affairs agrees, and that seems to me to be very sensible. The cabinet once had the ambition of 100,000 jobs. Unfortunately, only 35,000 of these were left in the tax review. If you had that done by the UWV, 10,000 more jobs would go down. Then the cabinet would cooperate with the job shredder. If I understand the Minister correctly he says: I am not going to do that, the third year of the WW does not UWV. Did I understand the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	This is all a lot of rhetoric. It is not appropriate in this Question Time to respond to every aspect of this rhetoric. I would like to stay at the heart of the social agreement: employers and employees make agreements together to keep people at work and to move from one job to another. They understood at the time that we were returning the public funding of the WW to two years and wanted to make arrangements for themselves to insure people against a third year of unemployment. You can imagine that in one sector that is more obvious than in the other. We wholeheartedly agree that it is better to prevent people from getting into that situation. I indicated that we are in consultation with the social partners to respond to the ESC opinion. The cabinet position is coming to the Chamber. I can reassure Mr Van Weyenberg in his fear that the UWV will be given a major new task. For the rest, it is real, and that is sometimes difficult for employers and employees themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	That it's at the collective bargaining table to make agreements, I get that. I had hoped the Minister would say: don't do that, that costs jobs; put that money into higher wages, put that money into education. I'm gonna make that call. I have understood the Minister correctly now, and we will stick to him. Moreover, I do not understand why we have been waiting for a cabinet response for six months now, when the essence of the Minister's response is that the government will not allow the third year of WW to be carried out and will not support it. It's not gonna be like we're getting a public supply. That is good news, but it is a pity that the Minister does not repeat it in a ready-to-use manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	The opinion deals with much more than just the question of the third year. It is also about the financing of the WW, it is also about how you involve employers and employees in the implementation of the Unemployment Act. It is about unemployment, and that is very important, in my view, about preventing unemployment. What does the future infrastructure of the labour market look like? How do you ensure that employee insurance remains employee insurance? That is very important for the future of the middle class. So it's not that strange; there's a lot of technology and a lot of politics. You have to take a good look at it and discuss it, but it'll come back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'll wait and see. In any case, I have now clearly understood that the third year of the WW is not due to the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	When the minister signed the social agreement, he said that the government would help the bosses and the unions and that he would make it possible to fix the third year. My question to the Minister is now what is worth more: leaving his ears hanging on the VVD and D66, or his own signature under that agreement? Then it is logical and most efficient to have the UWV run this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	At the time, I also said that it was also the quote I just used from the treatment of the Work and Security Act in this Chamber that it is important to help. This means that UWV, for example, information from the policies................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is easy to share with those who are going to carry out these appointments. Moreover, even now, there are super-statutory collective agreements, also around the WW, which are carried out by private parties. So we'll be able to do that for that third year. I would also like to help to make that possible, because when social partners make that agreement, we must enable them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	I thank the Minister for the answers and for coming to the Chamber.
