ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Nooren on her maiden speech. When we look at students and students, we see that mobility is growing incredibly. More and more students attend part of their training abroad, or internships. This is becoming easier and easier: we are travelling by plane all over the world and there are trains all over Europe. Through the Internet, Skype and social media, it has become increasingly easy to keep in touch with the home front. You could say that the world is getting smaller and smaller. This increases the need for a language to be able to act in the world. It is the task of our education to prepare students not only for today's world, but also for the world of later, with the international dimension becoming increasingly important. I think this is the direct answer to the question put by Mrs Gerskens. She asked what the problem really is and what we're doing it for. We're not just doing it for now, we're doing it for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u2	I want to remind Secretary of State Dekker that my name is Mrs Gerkens and not Gerskens. It's kind of funny what the Secretary of State says. He refers to the fact that many Dutch students go abroad to study there. I remind him of an article that was in Trouw today: Welcome to our campus by Ger Groot. Go Dutch and save yourself £50,000, headlined the British newspaper The Guardian two weeks ago. That windfall is waiting for British students who are scared off in their own country by the towering fees and therefore emigrate to the Netherlands. Dutch tuition is a joke compared to the British, living and housing are cheaper and everyone here speaks English. I think it's more like we're getting our universities ready to host foreign students. That is what we, as taxpayers, are paying for. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u3	Mrs Gerkens (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There is nothing wrong with the fact that more and more international students are in Dutch college banks. In fact, that often improves education. However, we see that more and more Dutch students are going to study abroad. Mobility is only increasing and therefore the need to speak the international language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u4	If so many Dutch students are going to study abroad, can I conclude that there is already sufficient mastery of the language? Otherwise, that wouldn't happen, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u5	Well, that depends. Part of it is where you pick up the language. If you are more skilled in a second or third language it helps you to take the step to go abroad for a while. I think this fits in with the world we're living in right now. It is not just about working at the large multinationals, as Mrs Gerkens suggests. Take the Limburg region, for example. If you work there at MBO level, or maybe even below it, in Roermond's outlet center, you get German customers all day long. In those border regions it is very good if you have the opportunity to get used to that language at an early stage. It contributes to the development of children and ultimately to the position of the Netherlands. Mr Kops of the PVV asked if this is a must, because it has been put forward by Europe. No, I think we want to be ahead of this, because we are aware that the Netherlands is not a country that ends at the borders. In part, we make our money across borders. It is good to introduce children to this at a young age. That also happens in many primary schools. In addition to the compulsory English course, about 1,100 schools take an extra step and offer a foreign language from the start: the English course. That works, that's how research shows at home and abroad. Children who have learned a language at a young age, for example, dare to speak in that language more easily at a later age. Young learned, old done. I will go into more detail later on about the investigations that have been cited. There are also schools that actually want to go one step further, using that foreign language not only as a target language, as a course, but also as a teaching language in other subjects. For example, if you choose English, you can also do a gym class or a history lesson in English. The law doesn't give room for that at the moment. Dutch and Friesland in Friesland are the allowed languages in primary education and that's it. With this bill, we aim to provide a little more room for this. Foreign research shows positive effects of bilingual education. We have been doing this for quite a long time in secondary education. There we have 25 years of positive results with bilingual education. Very recently, in the period 2010-2012, a number of primary schools with bilingual education have experimented. They have given lessons in English or German up to a maximum of 15% of their teaching time, an average of four hours a week. The results were positive. That is exactly why we are presenting this bill here. There were no major system changes to see where the ship is stranded. No, a number of schools in a number of places in the country have experimented with it. It turns out to be working, and it turns out to be necessary. That is why it is now good to take a next step. That must, of course, be done responsibly. Several Members of Parliament have pointed out that they strongly support the idea behind and the purpose of this law, but still have a number of questions or concerns. I'll walk by a foursome. Firstly, questions have been asked about the skills and requirements of teachers who provide teaching in another language. Secondly, attention has been paid to the effects of bilingual education on a vulnerable group of pupils, namely those who are lagging behind or who speak another language at home. Thirdly, questions have been asked about the precise scope of this law: what about these limits, both in time and in available languages? Fourthly, Mr Pijlman has raised a point that may not even be so much a concern: how does this relate to the larger picture, the vision of English in education and perhaps the position of English in relation to other parts of the curriculum? I will begin with the questions and concerns of different groups or, if so, when teachers are sufficiently equipped to offer education in English, German or French. Asked why I don't come up with a legal requirement for teachers. It is important that teachers have good control of the language and, above all, have the didactic skills when teaching in a foreign language. However, it is not an obligation for schools and teachers to offer lessons in another language. If you're gonna do it, you're gonna have to do it right. It is therefore not necessary to impose additional requirements in the law. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mrs Nooren and Mr Ganzevoort have asked why there is no legal competence. We have, of course, looked at secondary education, where bilingual education has been successfully given for 25 years. We see that schools that consciously choose to do so also commit themselves to the requirements of the group of schools that deal with bilingual education and that quality standards are being developed. I therefore believe that we should give these schools the confidence to do so. At the same time, I hear very well what the Chamber says about building quality standards or quality assurance. Three things are important in this context. If schools consciously choose to introduce bilingual education, there is already some kind of self-selection in it. These are usually the schools which already have the expertise or whose staff are willing to invest in it by means of further training. For example, a number of schools that have indicated their desire to take the step already have a good vvto programme and even teachers who have been trained in it. My gut tells me that if this had been a duty to all schools, it might have been different. Since it is now voluntary, this option will mainly be filled in by schools that are willing to do some extras in it. It is important that we are on top of it in the development of quality standards. It is not for nothing that I give a grant to EP-Nuffic to guide and monitor these developments continuously. I want to do that here, too, and I even want a tightening up. Schools can ask for funding from EP-Nuffic for support in the context of the introduction of vvto and bilingual education. We attach the condition that these schools work towards obtaining the quality mark vvto. That quality mark vvto is so important, because it makes demands on the language skills of teachers. We have to think about the B2 level, which is enough to give good hands and feet here in education. We can use tight frameworks in the sense that a good quality label with language requirements for teachers is being worked out from EP-Nuffic. So that's the end of the story? No. I have been asked whether there is anything else I can do in the context of monitoring. The inspection can play a role. It can check whether a school has a vvto quality mark. If a school has such a quality mark, it is a signal for the inspection that the quality of the bilingual programme is in order. If the school does not have a quality mark, then the inspection can point that out; I will ask you to do the same. The inspection is not empty-handed if a school does not have a quality mark, because for each school, including those offering bilingual education, the regular requirements apply. This means that the inspection can intervene if the quality is inadequate, for example, if there is insufficient quality care, if disadvantaged students have difficulty coming along or if the calculation and language results are lagging behind. I believe that this three-stage self-selection, self-organisation with standards and labels and, as a headline, the monitoring of the inspection offers adequate guarantees. This self-organisation with standards and labels works very well in secondary education, so I do not see why it could not work in primary education. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mr Pijlman and Mr Kops have asked what level is adequate. Is that the English you get on the pabo? Let me be clear about that: the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u6	I thank the Secretary of State for what he has said so far about the inspection. I do have an enlightening question. Do I understand correctly that under the regime proposed by the Secretary of State, the inspection would only be able to check whether there is a quality mark? You can point out to schools that they do not have a quality mark, but they will probably know that themselves. This can only be noted when it appears, probably by Cito tests or otherwise, that schools perform poorly on certain subjects. Then there is the question of what this is about. It may well be that the second language in education has not been properly taught. So it is actually through the stairs that the schools have poor study results in the substantive subjects, which may then be the cause or the basis for this. So that's a very indirect road. So there is no direct way for the inspection. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u7	Allow me to take one more step back. We see that all schools that want to offer vvto apply for a support subsidy for that. What we are going to do now is to make sure that they stand up for that label. That means teachers at level et cetera. I think that's already a huge incentive. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asks what happens if schools do not do so and do not have such a quality mark. Then what can the inspection monitor? I think there are two things involved here. The formal line on which the inspection can maintain is ultimately through the robustness requirements. This can also be linked to financial sanctions. This has to do with lagging learning outcomes, but not just that. It may also be a lack of quality care. If it turns out that vulnerable pupils are going to be at risk for us to talk about this in more detail, that is also a title for inspection to intervene. This has to do with quality management. Then we are talking about the enforcement role of the inspection. In addition, the inspection also plays a stimulating role. In addition to what has been included in the law as valid requirements, schools receive advice on what they can do to improve their education. It is worth pointing out that it has a quality mark and the advantages it has.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u8	I also have a small question of substance to explain. If I understand correctly, the law currently allows us to maintain robustness requirements. It's already in the law. Under this legal text, the inspection in its supervision could therefore use as a directive that a school should have the national EP-Nuffic standard. So if the school doesn't have it, then the inspection can intervene under the current legal text, just because of that point? Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u9	No, Mr Bruijn did not understand that correctly. Failure to have that mark is not a sufficient condition for immediate action. However, it is a signal for the inspection to have a good look at what is going on. The vast majority of schools that are going to work with the vvto do have such a quality mark. This indicates that teachers master the language at that B2 level et cetera. If inspectors find a school that doesn't have that quality mark unexpectedly in secondary education, they have all that, so that works perfectly well there, then that's not enough to intervene, but then they look at the learning outcomes: are they not getting back or do we not see that, for example, pupils are lagging behind? The formal robustness requirements, learning development, learning outcomes and, for example, quality care for vulnerable pupils are titles for intervention. It can be done on that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u10	I would also like to ask you a question. The Secretary of State says that the adequacy requirements form a basis for the inspection. Of course, the language level is not included, because there is no legal requirement for that. Property requirements must be respected, but this does not include bilingual education as such. The Secretary of State talks about poor quality care for disadvantaged pupils, but not about poor quality care in terms of the level of that second language of those teachers or keeping them up to date. Is maintaining that second language of the teachers also covered by that quality management system to be tested or is that outside the scope of this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u11	The inspection mainly looks at students, in this case. If students who need extra care for any reason get into trouble, that is a title for inspection to intervene. If students suddenly show other results or if those results decline, this is a reason for the inspection to intervene. This might lead to a school which has not sufficiently well thought-out started to introduce bilingual education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u12	I understand that the Secretary of State is talking about the quality and care of the students within a school. My concern, however, is for students who do not go to that school or who leave that school because there is a bilingual education there. In what way is the Secretary of State going to look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u13	Maybe I didn't quite understand the question, but is the question how do we take those students out of school?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u14	I'll give you an example of a school in Haarlem. That's a choir school, a school that spends 200 hours of 1040 hours on music. As a result, the pupils at that school are by definition of a higher level. That's also the school that scores the best in Haarlem with the Cito test. That's not crazy, because you have to be able to handle it and understand the lesson a little faster. My fear is that we will soon have a division between schools, that is, schools for pupils who can take part more easily and easily, and schools for students who cannot do so because they are lagging behind and will, by definition, opt for regular education. Is the inspection also looking at this, whether this school is still sufficiently accessible as a public primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u15	Anyway. All basic education must be accessible, including on this point. I will say something about this later when we come to talk about parental contributions. There are 1,100 schools that now offer early foreign language education. That is not what we are talking about today. That's really like a separate subject, but much sooner than just in the seventh and eighth grade. These are 1,100 schools spread across the Netherlands. They are also located in the disadvantaged areas and also in the areas where children have a language disadvantage, such as in parts of North-East Groningen. So I do not believe that there is any kind of self-selection and that these schools are only in Wassenaar and The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u16	One more time, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u17	My second interruption was actually more clarifying, Mr President. In my view, the Secretary of State is drawing the comparison that we said in an interrupting debate with Mr Bruijn that you should not do so. After all, Vvto is completely different from immersion education. Of course, vvto is no reason for students to say: I can't do that, I don't do that. Immersion education, in which you really get lessons in another language, could be. My question to the Secretary of State is how he's going to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u18	I don't see that one-two-three happening either. Let me give you an example. The Visserschool is Amsterdam-West is one of the schools that participates in the pilot we started with 30% to 50% teaching in a foreign language. That goes beyond what we are all dealing with today. It's one of the pilots running parallel to this. That's just a school in a black neighborhood in Amsterdam. It is important for him to do this, especially to prepare those children for a good future. I think it's too easy to say that this is just some kind of elitist thing for schools in the good neighborhoods. A number of members asked what is the required or desired language level, or that is the level of English you get on the pabo. Let me be clear about that: that is not the case. This is also evident when you look at the standards and requirements that are included in the national standard for vvto. They're based on B2 levels. That's significantly above that. On the pabo it is mainly about giving the course English. That is really something else in this sense. Bilingual education, for example, requires certain didactic skills in addition to the proper mastery of the foreign language. This therefore always requires continuing training of teachers. This continuing training offer is well available. In addition to a number of private providers, there are a number of pabo's that offer some extras and that have united in the Knowledge Centre vvto. For example, they offer minors for vvto, where in addition to traditional vvto, more and more attention has been paid to what has become called immersion education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u19	But what would be wrong if we wanted to prepare the pupils for bilingual education as early as possible, to do so immediately in the curricula for the teachers and not to wait for further training? Because those teachers who spend only three ECTSs on English are the majority of them, as the Secretary of State himself says, didactics are considered to give regular English in groups 7 and 8. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u20	There's no immediate objection to that. At the same time, we must be careful not to completely overload the curriculum of the pabo. There are a lot of questions coming up on the pabo's. It's gonna be a different story when you say: for the whole primary education, we're gonna raise the question and standard of English. Then that requires something from every pabo student and every novice teacher, but that's not what we're gonna do with this bill. This is something extra, something optional. Then I don't think it's weird that you say: that would require something extra on top of what you got in your pabo education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u21	I see Mrs Van Bijsterveld wants to interrupt. Will the members give the Secretary of State the opportunity, after her question, to continue his story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u22	I would like to come back to my question on supervision and ask it in a different way. What would be needed, on top of the current system, to give the inspection the opportunity to exercise supervision and then not by way of a detour, but directly, on the fact that English is taught as a second language at an adequate level? Obviously that is not possible now, but what would be needed in the system to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u23	That is not what we have explicitly opted for in this legislative proposal. This would require a further legislative amendment, i.e. a tightening up of the rules of jurisdiction, on top of the powers already provided by law. That therefore calls for a further intervention in the law. At a time like this, the inspection would have a hook to look at. Once again, we have not chosen to do so, also because we see that it works very well in vo: that is where it goes well through labelling and self-regulation. Sometimes legislation and regulation are very good tools for doing something. But if it can also be done in a different, lesser way, it is sometimes preferable. If I look at the good experience gained in this field, I see no reason to deviate from that for primary education. Mr Bruijn asked a number of questions about the amount of teachers to be retrained. That is difficult to say, because it depends very much on the enthusiasm of the schools to participate. I can, however, give an idea of the number of schools that applied for further training last year through grants. These are 82 schools with over 600 teachers. Half of the grant must be devoted to the continuing training of these teachers. There are also Eramus+ grants, of which some 307 teachers have used. This is separate from the professionalisation budgets that schools themselves receive. Mr Bruijn asked about the performance contracts and the Agenda 2005 when it comes to implementing the Modern Foreign Languages Activity Programme. Teacher training has now completed and completed these agreements. A new English Knowledge Base has been developed and implemented. But much more important, as has been said, is the fact that a number of pabo's have united in a network of centres of knowledge for foreign language teaching, which cooperates on improving the quality of continuing training, with a number of institutions offering a minor vvto. Although the knowledge base applies to everyone and is anchored in the pabos as a kind of minimum requirement, we are not yet at a level where it is possible to shape foreign language teaching properly. That's what the Keurmark vvto oversees. Can the teacher register still play a role in this? I think so. From a formal point of view, of course, it is the profession that is going to be involved, but I can imagine very well what teachers who teach in this form of education need to do to keep up with their skills. Mrs Nooren asked a question on the opinion on pilot bilingual primary education. This would show that the level is so important. There, too, a comparison is made with the Vo. Yes, the level is very important for the success of this. We see that with the help of EP-Nuffic, it has been working to the full satisfaction for 25 years through the development of standards, labels and a good vvto label. Yeah, so that level is important. But the question is whether you should necessarily lay down this in legislation and regulations. I move on to the following theme: foreign-speaking students and students with learning disadvantages. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether bilingual education is also suitable for disadvantaged and non-lingual pupils. Are you better off with one or the other? In addition, he indicated that the answer to that may be very difficult to give, because it depends very much on how you give it. At the same time, we know something about the development of programmes. We've finished the pilots that have been investigated. Despite the fact that the study of this group of students was not very extensive, the students who have been studied do not show any worse developments than students with the same characteristics in the regular programmes. This is one of the reasons why the researchers themselves state that they see no reason to exclude these students from bilingual programmes. The fact remains that this is a vulnerable target group. This is initially a very important responsibility for the schools that choose to do so: if you do it, you will take that into account. If you do it, you do it well prepared, with the right expertise. It is also important that we continue to follow that. I have written a few things about monitoring in reply to the written questions, but I think it is good to look at the current pilot for schools that are going to experiment with 30% to 50%, but also at this target group that is going to use the extra space provided by the law, how it will work out, differentiated to different target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u24	Thank you for your answer. What factors influence the learning effects? Can the question of monitoring be taken into account, so that we can look more closely and accurately in the course of time where we should or should not adjust?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u25	I think it's really good to take that with me. Mr Bruijn asked whether it was possible to conclude from the fact that pupils with a language disadvantage are developing in no other way than pupils without a lag that the programme had had a positive effect. That's just a step too far. For me, the conclusion is that it has not had a negative effect. Ms Gerkens referred to the research of Leiden University. I know that investigation. The researchers conclude that early start-ups do not always have an advantage over late start-ups. That doesn't scare me so much. Other studies, e.g. the studies carried out in the Pilot Pilot Bilingual Primary Education study, show that there are advantages to be gained. Leiden research also mentions that early immersion programmes can be effective if sufficient time is spent on them. The present proposal concerns 15%. You'll be talking in about four hours a week. You might be able to live up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u26	That is a nice interpretation of the Secretary of State, but the study states that, if you have enough time, you will achieve the same result in premature immersion as in sufficient time at a later immersion. In short, you actually have to spend twice as much time on early immersion to get the same result as later immersion. That's actually what that investigation says. So that's different from what the Secretary of State says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u27	We must be careful to shop selectively in these investigations. The study shows that there are other results than those in the field of language management alone. Those other results are also positive. I would like to mention, for example, the attitude of students towards foreign languages. Young learners generally have a positive attitude towards older learners in learning a foreign language. They feel more comfortable speaking that language, even when they're older. So starting early does have positive effects. In the monitoring, attention is paid both to the control of Dutch as well as to the control of English. I believe that Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked a question about this. So that's what's being done. We are looking at various factors, including the effects on English and Dutch, the different target groups and the different explanations for the point to which Mr Ganzevoort has just referred. Mr Bruijn asked whether children with a language disadvantage could already be supported in pre-school education. It's already happening. Under the law that has been in place since 2010, children have to work on catching up from a very young age. The municipalities are obliged to do so. As a result, this language disadvantage is preferably almost eliminated when children start elementary school. This leads to fewer differences than if pre-school education had not been there. A number of questions have been asked about possible exclusion or a possible division. I just said during the interruption that the 1,100 schools that vvto offer are really spread all over the Netherlands. You'll find that in all places. Of course, it is a choice of the parent to bring his or her child there. If you consciously opt for non-vto education, your child will not get it. However, this choice is not limited, because there would be a very limited number of schools in a very limited number of places. Mrs Nooren specifically asked what exactly we are going to investigate. She asked: could you, on top of the question of what it means for vulnerable pupils and languages, look at the accessible ones, for example, by looking at how the parental contribution is going to work and what about different pupils with different socio-economic backgrounds? I'd like to include that in the research setup as well. That investigation shall be carried out biennially. That means that I can inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of 2018, if it runs for two years. The Chamber has the Rog motion (34031, no. 14) adopted. It calls on the government to do so. This is not just about this pilot. The request is also aimed at continuing to follow this target group. I think it would be a good idea for a good scientific club or a good agency to look at all these aspects. I think it is important to emphasise here once again that the own contribution is always a voluntary contribution. It can play a role in whether or not you participate in additional activities, but this is about regular education. This means that the school should simply continue to provide for this education, even if parents cannot or do not want to pay it. I come to the scope of the law. How far does this law go? What's the idea behind the 15%? Should that not be a minimum percentage, as Mr Bruijn has pointed out? This legislative proposal is very much about a maximum percentage. If you make a minimum percentage of that, you're going exactly the other way. I can very well imagine that this would only increase the number of concerns. So we've narrowed it down. We've been running that test. We have seen that this can be done. So on that basis, you could also give the rest of the education the room to do so. Is it a target rate? Well, not formally when you look at this law. However, I think that a lot of schools will work towards this in practice if they choose to do so. If you put so much effort and time in there, you don't do it for one hour a week. 15% is about four hours a week. I think a lot of schools will eventually come to that. How do we deal with schools that offer more than 15%? One example was mentioned, coincidentally, of a school which not only looks up the edges and even goes over them, but which is sometimes adventurous in other areas. Let me put it diplomatically. The law is the law here. So we also indicated at this school that he should, in principle, adhere to it. Why did we choose not to lay down that 15% in the law, but in an AMvB? Mr Kops of the PVV asked this question. We did that to make it future-proof. We can now, for example, wait and see how the second pilot is going and then see if there are any other percentages that might be required. Otherwise, any change to that would require a huge legislative process. As you know, that takes a lot of time. At the same time, Mr Kops and Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked: when that pilot is finished, do we read in the Official Journal that it has been increased? I would like to say to the Chamber that we will always come up with the results of the evaluation, so that there is also room for discussion in the Lower House and the Upper House before we take such a step. When will the percentage become so high that English actually becomes a dominant language? I believe that Mr Ten Hoeve also asked that question. I do not share that fear immediately, because you could formally say that 50% is also a maximum. Because then you're running into a legal limit. The law states that Dutch is the dominant language of teaching. If it's more than 50% in another language, you can't keep it up with dry eyes. More than 50% in another language would require a legislative change. The margin is therefore between 15%, which we are talking about today, and 50%, with which pilots are now being run. However, these pilots will not be completed until 2019. I have already indicated to the Chamber that, if we want to amend it, we will first discuss it in detail with the Chamber if there is a need for it. Mr Bruijn referred to the IGBO, the internationally oriented primary education system. There is more English in it. He asked whether we could not experiment with this in mainstream primary education. I'm very reluctant about that. This also has to do with the fact that the IGBO is there for a very specific target group, namely children of parents returning from abroad or parents working in business or the diplomatic service of whom they are expected to move abroad soon. This makes it much more intensive and therefore much more expensive education. If it is then asked to do it in mainstream primary education, then there is also simply a question of funding. This is without prejudice to the fact that, within the scope of the law, schools can make use of elements from, for example, the ib-curriculum if that fits within the Dutch framework. The question was asked, in my opinion, by Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Nooren, why it only concerns education in English, German and French. The written reply already mentioned geographical, economic and cultural reasons. On top of that, two or three things are important. At the moment there are three legal target languages in the Primary Education Act. So you can give three courses: besides English, which is taught everywhere and is compulsory, also German and French. It would be a bit weird in that respect if you say: you can't teach Chinese, but you can teach Chinese. That doesn't match. That is one of the reasons why we chose those three languages. There is also a practical reason behind it. If you look at the availability of expertise and of teaching materials and if you look at what EP-Nuffic is good in terms of support, namely support for bilingual education in secondary education and vvto in primary education, then you will find these languages again. I would very much prefer to take a first step with those three languages. I come to a conclusion, actually more a glimpse of the future: what is to come? Mr Pijlman asked: there is now a first opportunity to give more space, but is that enough, should you not take another step further? I think this is very clearly on the agenda of the Platform on Education2032, which has been asked what is needed for the future for the curriculum. Mr Pijman's groupmate is pulling that cart. I read in last Saturday's newspaper that English is an important part of this. If we think about changes in our curriculum for the longer term, it is my preference that we also look at it in that context. Then when you make a separate view of English, you're back on your feet. So if I could take it into a broader view of the curriculum, that would be very much my preference. So what do we do with the different calibration levels? With this bill, and also with the vvto, which is already there, you can see that the different levels of English will change a bit at the end of primary school. The question of Platform Education2032, which is now very clearly on the table, is: should you not go to reference levels for English too, as we now know for the Dutch language and for arithmetic? The consequences are much different from those we are talking about today. However, the question is more than justified and lies there on the table. At the same time, when we talk about education, we must also accept that there are sometimes differences and that they may only increase in the future. I am referring, for example, to differences in the level of English and differences in what students receive. In the past, all pupils were given the same substance at one and the same time and thus arrived at the finish line with about the same luggage. With the current developments in ICT, with much more flexibility, with differences in speeds and levels, with much more thinking from talents and talent development than from the school system, we now face the challenge of learning much more about these differences with education. These were two reflections at the inserted point. Finally, Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether it would also have an impact on the review. She gave the example of a Cito test in different languages. That is not at all the case for the moment. In secondary education, the final exam is also made in the Dutch language. This will continue to be the case in the primary education review. Again, I don't know what the future looks like. If you go to reference levels for English, I can also imagine that sooner or later the need arises to determine whether those reference levels have been achieved. However, that is still future music. This extends far beyond the scope of the legislative proposal before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u28	Was that the end of your first-term response?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u30	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Oh, no, you're gonna ask another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u31	May I ask to suspend the meeting for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u32	Is five minutes enough? I see that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I would like to go further on a number of points. I'll start with quality management. The Secretary of State says that the government wants to be on top of guaranteeing the quality of bilingual education, but this is happening on a very indirect path. In fact, it only happens afterwards if it turns out that schools have done badly. It is then noted by the inspection and the various causes that may be identified. Is it conceivable that the inspection will have a handle in another way to check directly the quality of bilingual education? I come to my second point. The Secretary of State says we have to have faith in the schools. I am certainly willing to give a lot of confidence to civil society organisations, including schools, but we have a legal system in which we do have competence requirements for both primary and secondary education, as well as for special types of education such as physical education in primary education. So what makes this so specific that the Secretary of State does not want to regulate it through a separate law? Third. There is a law on the professions in education, which aims to promote and guarantee the skills of teachers through implementing schemes. I have understood that law in such a way that it is a general law with formal legal standards, the practical implementation of which is carried out by the education itself. That interpretation is set up by the field itself and then laid down in a regulation, which is based again on that law. Would this Law BIO, and the system attached to it, not be an excellent opportunity to incorporate quality requirements in terms of bilingual education? Finally, this is also about the ability of teachers to give the course. So I would like to hear from the Secretary of State exactly what role this Law BIO could play here and what hook that law or the implementing regulation could form for some sort of inspection oversight. My next point is the possible increase in the 15% standard to a maximum of 50%. The Secretary of State has indeed promised to submit a proposal to both Chambers, including this Chamber. I would like to hear more specifically from the Secretary of State or indeed from the research that is being carried out there, including the results of the pilot of the mastery of English by the students, but also those of Dutch and that of the course to be taught in the foreign language. I have another question about the 15% standard. Are schools free to choose one or more courses which they then take care of entirely in English? Or can they also choose to take care of various subjects in English, but in part? Is that a freedom that schools have or is it specifically about giving certain subjects in English? Finally, I come to the Cito test that schools perform at the end of the course. In my first term, it was not so much a question of whether the Cito test itself was in English, but of whether students in all these different subjects were sufficiently offered the Dutch terms, so that they could also take the Dutch test of subjects taught in English.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u34	Mr. Chairman. On the VVD side, first of all, congratulations to Mrs Nooren for her maiden speech. My group fully supported this maiden speech, except for one point. One of Mrs Nooren's very first announcements was that if you were born for a dime, you could never become a quarter. My group does not agree with that. We believe, on the contrary, that we must ensure that, even if you were born for a dime, you can certainly become a quarter if we help together to get the maximum out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u35	Mr Bruijn, that was at the heart of my speech. In the past you couldn't become a dime, but we now have education, among other things, which makes that development. A part of our people is an example of that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u36	Thank you. Then I am glad that your entire party now shares that view. I didn't have that impression yet, but by now we find each other completely and we fall sobbing in the arms of each other, as always in this coalition. I will continue with the point we are discussing today, namely 15% early foreign language education. My group thanks the Secretary of State for the clear answer. My group's concerns have been removed to a large extent, but there is one remaining point. In this respect, I agree with the CDA's questions on this issue. That's the point of the teacher's quality. I would like to put one other possible option to the Secretary of State in order to ensure better quality. It has to do with guidelines for inspection supervision. Is it possible to actively aim for schools to apply for the VVTO label, and that this is based on the national standard vvto? In any case, we know that the minimum level of teachers that we have created for this purpose, namely EP-Nuffic and the Education Council, is being reached as quickly as reasonably possible and the necessary level of education of teachers is being ensured. As a next step, I ask the Secretary of State if it is possible for teachers to use the foreign language mastery level advised by EP-Nuffic in the national standard as a guideline for inspection supervision. My group believes that this does not require any legislative amendment or any further amendment of this legal text, but that it goes beyond just trust in the school. Then there is the question of whether the government could have an investigation conducted into the language control level of the teacher being used. So that goes beyond just at the end with for example the Cito test the level of the students. So you will investigate how it works in practice, in order to determine whether the level of requirements set by EP-Nuffic is being met. Is that feasible? Or are additional measures needed at that time? And could such research, if it were possible, be completed at the same time as the multi-annual Pilot Bilingual Primary Education? After all, that pilot will be the basis for the continuation of the further policy, i.e. the AMvB et cetera. So if we had the result of such an investigation at the same time, we could have an integral picture of the possibilities that exist to place it in the inspection directive and to look at the teacher's de facto level of language control. Finally, I would ask the Secretary of State if he could inform our Chamber of the results. We have also tabled a motion on this subject. The President shall: Mr Bruijn, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Nooren, Mr Gerkens and Mr Pijlman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present legislative proposal does not provide for statutory quality criteria for teachers teaching in a foreign language;]] [[Whereas it is very important that the introduction of foreign languages into primary education is careful;]] [[Whereas the quality of education must be guaranteed and the level of language control of the teacher is an important factor;]] [[requests the Government,]] [[aim to ensure that schools apply for the quality mark, based on the national standard vvto, which ensures the required level of education of teachers;]] [[use the foreign language mastery level advised by EP-Nuffic in the National Standard vvto as a guideline for inspection supervision by teachers;]] [[to conduct research on the level of language control of teachers teaching foreign language teaching at an early stage in order to determine whether the level set by EP-Nuffic is being met or whether additional measures are needed;]] [[finalise this research at the same time as the multi-annual pilot bilingual primary education;]] [[inform the Chamber of the results;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u37	The last time I stood here and filed a motion with this Secretary of State, his reaction was that he would embrace the motion, if not at that time his arms were both in plaster. He doesn't have that excuse today, so I'm counting on an embrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u38	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their congratulations. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers. We have made it clear to the Secretary of State that we think the quality of teachers is important, but that we consider it even more important that children achieve something in their lives with the bilingual education they enjoy. There are two remaining points on which we have questions. The first concerns the quality of teachers who provide education. In his reply, the Secretary of State refers to the inspection to check. However, this happens afterwards. I assume that schools that offer bilingual education are good schools and have a basic arrangement. It takes four years for people to see if they're okay. I believe, however, that we need to make sure in advance that teachers who teach in another language are qualified in advance. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to consider whether the guidelines which are included in the ex ante inspection can consider whether this can be taken into account. The second point concerns monitoring the impact of the introduction of bilingual education. The Secretary of State has extensively argued that he wants to monitor the impact of bilingual education by looking at school performance and who get it and who doesn't. It is also interesting, of course, whether the introduction of bilingual education does not have an exclusive effect on children. That is what my question was about. As a result, we might find that 1,100 schools are now divided across the country, but that there may be situations in which one eventually finds that there is a difference and that children may not be able to take part in it, or that children are excluded within a class or school. We therefore attach importance to monitoring the impact of bilingual education. To that end, we shall table a motion for a resolution. In that motion we also explicitly call for attention to be paid to the effect of the voluntary own contribution. The Secretary of State states in his reply that it is a voluntary parental contribution. That is true, but a voluntary parental contribution can have a deterrent effect. For people with a small scholarship it is very difficult to go to the head teacher and explain that they are unable to pay that contribution. Very often parents consider in advance what the voluntary parental contribution is and what that means for the choice of school. Our call is to see whether there is a link between the socio-economic status of children at a school and the level of voluntary parental contribution. Those two things we'd like monitored during the pilot and after. The President shall: Mr Nooren, Mr Pijlman, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Bruijn and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of multilingual primary education can provide children with additional opportunities and challenges and can have positive significance for the Netherlands as a country with a strong international orientation;]] [[Considers that multilingual education can also put children at a disadvantage if they are unable (yet) to participate in education in a language other than Dutch;]] [[also noted that multilingual education may have undesirable negative effects on the accessibility of primary education, if the provision of bilingual education is accompanied by a higher parental contribution and that higher parental contribution is perceived as a threshold or is not available to them;]] [[believes that this type of effect is undesirable because (hidden) selection at the gate of primary education hinders equal opportunities for all children in the Netherlands on good education;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor, in particular, the impact of the introduction of multilingual education on the occurrence of negative effects on the accessibility of primary education in general for vulnerable children, and in particular for children with language disadvantage and/or learning difficulties, in the schools providing bilingual education, and to communicate it to the Chamber by 1 January 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u39	We look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Spokenness is a pleasure for everyone. It's a pleasure to listen to it. Sometimes it's a pleasure to do it. I think of my mother, who always praised me for asking her for explanations at every word I didn't understand when I was reading or when I heard anything. I have to say that's what I'm doing with my son now. I'm glad he keeps asking me that. In addition, I have the students of 3 atheneum in mind, who didn't even know what a word like "atube" means by their test. The Netherlands remains hopeless at the language level of, today, the largest newspaper in the Netherlands, namely 17,000 words. English enters our language, not only on the streets, but also in our education. Mr Bruijn even thinks 15% is a bit thin. I would like to refer again to the column by Ger Groot in Trouw today, which I have just mentioned. The English student even entered the faculty council, which then had to meet in English. You can't be better served on your beck and call. This means that bilingualism in education actually becomes monolingualism. As I said in my first term, language is the essence of our culture, not just of ours, but of all cultures. Spokenness is something we know less and less and less and less. That's why I'm getting a little gloomy about this bill. The strengthening of a foreign language seems very nice, but besides the fact that there is no substantial advantage in premature immersion, I would love to embrace such an effort and effort on the Dutch language. Now we spend all this time and attention on a foreign language. If the reports do not clearly show that this really matters, I wonder if we should do it. Here and there you can find pluses and mints, according to the Secretary of State. I thought that Mr Ganzevoort was the best explanation by saying that there is actually no clear conclusion. In this case, I think the balance is going to the wrong side. So my group cannot agree to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u41	Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd explained it best tonight, too. I appreciate that Mrs Gerkens has noticed that. It is only a question of whether you then come to the balance that it should not be done or whether you come to the conclusion that you should not stop that space. I'm going the other way. Throughout the debate, in addition to all the questions about quality and accessibility, I believe that the two key issues that are very important are also the basic question about your attitude to language and culture. Is it primarily inward-looking or is it also very quickly international or cosmopolitan? I can taste this cultural difference throughout the debate. My group always has an open eye and a heart for the breadth of the world and for the international relations that emerge in it. In this sense, my group is not afraid of meeting and using other languages. On the two key points, quality and accessibility, I would like to emphasise what has already been mentioned in the two motions and what has been widely discussed in the debate. I also have questions for the Secretary of State on these two points. How do we guarantee that the quality remains in order? Can he take a step in that direction towards the Chamber? In this Chamber, not only a small part of the Members feel that quality should be better protected than self-regulation alone. That's a broad feeling in the Chamber. Furthermore, can the Minister promise that the monitoring of accessibility in particular is so robust that we really get a good idea of the points we need to make? With these commitments, there would be full scope for our group to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. In his reply he shows that he has a lot of confidence in schools and also in the self-regulatory capacity of schools. In general, that appeals to me very much. The Secretary of State or his successor will not escape this subject and a bit wider in the advance of English in education, both in primary, secondary and higher education, in order to make demands on the teachers who have to give that education. He says: look at what is happening in the vvto and also look at the fact that a number of educational academies are already organizing and offering a minor. That is all very well, but do we also attach quality requirements to the minor? That is what this debate is all about. What Mr Bruijn said about this has been taken from my heart. The best way to ensure the quality of education is not through the inspection, but through the teacher. We believe that this should be the starting point. I also asked the Secretary of State to monitor what this bill means for trilingual schools. I'd like to get a response to that question. Finally, I looked at the bigger picture. We can assume that this is not the last time that we are talking about the advance of English in Dutch education. In response to a comment by Mr Ten Hoeve, the Secretary of State said that Dutch will always remain the dominant language. I would point out that the dominant language in parts of higher education is no longer Dutch, but English. This has gone silently and has no impact on the quality of training. It is also left to the institutions. I therefore think it would be a good idea to have a more fundamental debate on this. I'm not saying I'm against that advance. I think that is a fact that we should not or do not want to avoid, but I believe that this has greater implications for education and training than we have seen so far. At the same time, I believe that our own language also has the right to protection. That is why this more fundamental debate should also be held. I'll make a motion on that. The Secretary of State told me to wait for School 2030. I think that is more limited than what is requested in the next motion. I am tabling the motion on behalf of Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u43	Mr Pijlman, I think it would be a good idea for you to stand while I read the motion. Maybe someone wants to ask you about it. You know what I mean? You couldn't have known that. Besides, you left your pen. It's always useful to stand, because once again, someone might want to ask you something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u44	Good. The President shall: Mr Pijlman, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Backer, Mr Gerkens, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Prast and others proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that English occupies an increasingly important place in Dutch education and that the English language increasingly displaces Dutch in higher education;]] [[Whereas the bilingual (NL/ENG) school is on the rise in primary and secondary education, leaving the quality of teacher training to prepare teachers for multilingualism;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an integrated view on the use of English in education, involving the quality of teacher training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u45	Mr. Chairman. As long as it's all clear. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. There has been a great deal of discussion. Quality was a very important part. Some of my fellow Members have now made this point again in the second term. They have mentioned opportunities to achieve better quality assurance. That's very important to all of us. We are usually talking about 15% English in primary education, but we expressly mention the possibility of raising that percentage. So does the Secretary of State himself. He has already done so in the explanatory statement, because it is very explicit. He once again speaks very explicitly about it and even makes his own conclusion: well, it will not be more than 50%, because then it is no longer Dutch education. In itself, it seems to me that that statement by the Secretary of State offers no guarantee whatsoever in this respect. It's a private opinion, if I may interpret it that way, because I can't really find it anymore. I also think that this remark is ahead of schedule in the Pijlman c.s motion. is asked to do so. Find out what we want with English! What do we want to achieve fundamentally with English? That goes beyond just talking about the curriculum. It is essentially about the meaning of English in our entire society. What do we want with this and what consequences should we draw from it? That is very important. In the meantime, we are talking very explicitly about up to 50% English in primary education. The Secretary of State expressly states in this regard that, of course, we are also asked by everyone that there should be research on the basis of this. This research looks at all kinds of things, such as how good it is for the second language and for Dutch. I would also like to point out that the investigation is being conducted into the pilot that is running. In that situation, Dutch is still the fully accepted and widely used language in this country. A student who receives 50% of his primary education in English under these conditions learns to use Dutch as a language of use. The question is whether he really learns Dutch terminology from all subjects. That depends on which subjects he received in English. He naturally learns Dutch as a language of communication. But once we have put 50% in the AMvB, this continues, more and more schools are doing it and it is popular because that's what it is, Secretary of State, what's the effect? Then there is a society in which many people, almost everyone, understand English very well and it is more obvious to speak English than Dutch. There is only one Englishman to attend or everyone immediately switches to English because everyone can do so without any problems. Then we are at the stage where slowly but surely, and perhaps not at all so slowly, Dutch is getting worse and English is completely replacing it. The risk that we run by determining in an AMvB the percentage that education can offer is that it brings us on this path. I continue to object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u46	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I can make it quick. I can't make it any better: the PVV is going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u47	Short but powerful. Thank you very much, Mr Kops. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. He'll be able to answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u48	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it would be a good idea if I brought along a number of questions that were not included in the motions or related to them. Then we can discuss the two issues of quality and accessibility a little longer. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asks for the reasons that, unlike, for example, gymnastics, formal competence is not regulated by law. Of course we can; it is a choice we have made. The difference with gym is two-fold. Gym is a mandatory part of all schools. This is optional for schools that want it. If a school wants it and consciously chooses it, it can be expected that it is willing to do something extra for it. At least this is what the experience of secondary education teaches. In addition, a reason to regulate it legally is that we saw, for example, for gymnastics that the level remained long below the level, despite the fact that it was mandatory. That, too, could be a reason to intervene. I don't think it's necessary at all, but let's say in two years' time that this didn't work out as we all expected. Then that always gives a reason to start it. Again, I do not think it is necessary for all the reasons I mentioned in the first term, but that is the difference with a profession like physical education and movement. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether the monitoring of the increase in the percentages included not only the results of Dutch, but also those of the foreign language. I can be brief: that is the case. She also asked for an explanation about English. When exactly can that be given? Does a school have to do that in a specific profession, or is it allowed to divide it in? Schools are free to make choices. I would point out that the system of primary education courses is somewhat less obvious in any case than in secondary education. It will thus be more integrated into different components of primary education. I still have to sort my leaves out a little bit because we're gonna go through with it in one go. In any event, Mr Pijlman asked whether the monitoring could include trilingual education. I am not against that in principle. It depends very much on how many schools in Friesland are actually going to participate in this. If that is enough to say useful things about it later, I have no objection to taking it with me. Before I move on to the motions, I would like to say, in response to Mr Ten Hoeve's speech, that this 50% is not my private opinion. The law states that education must be given in Dutch, with underneath that is what we do with this bill, an exception. As soon as the exception becomes larger than the main rule, you become legally trapped. So it is not my personal opinion, but it is a legal construct and it is also consistent. Moreover, I think that the doom scenario outlined by Mr Ten Hoeve is very unlikely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u49	I had asked two questions to the Secretary of State who have not yet been answered. I do not know if the Secretary of State will come back to it; otherwise I would like to repeat them. My first question concerns the commitment to make the results of research available for the introduction of the 50% standard. The question was whether the results of the subjects to be taught could also be made available, i.e. not only the languages used as feed, but also the subjects of substance. My second question concerns the role that the BIO Act can play as an example of meeting top-down regulation and bottom-up regulation in setting quality standards. Because both the government and the field play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u50	I can be brief about the latter: that is complicated, because the Law BIO regulates the skills requirements of all teachers in education. Therefore, you cannot exclude a specific target group, apart from the fact that language management is not one of the competences provided for in the BIO Act. So it would really ask for a different legal guarantee, if you'd like to. Once again, the proposal is not to guarantee that with heavy regulation in powers but in a different way, with self-organisation and self-regulation, which in my view has also worked well in the vo together with supervision. In response to the motion, I shall say a few words about it later. Then I ended up on the motions. Perhaps it would be good to start with the motion under letter H........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This motion deals with quality and calls for schools to participate in the label, develop the national standard well, then also to carry out research into the language control level of the teachers doing this research and to include it as a directive for inspection. I think I can leave the verdict on this motion to your Chamber. In all those things that are needed to secure that standard, I do not think that is so much the point of contention. I have already mentioned a number of things about this in the first period that we are going to do. What may require further clarification is how the inspection which can be used as a directive will be carried out in the near future. We have had many discussions in this Chamber about the supervisory frameworks of the inspection. Then it is very often pointed out, not wrongly, that a supervisory framework should not be taken out of the sky, but should always be traceable to something that is contained in legislation and regulations. That is the formal supervisory framework. On top of that, of course, the inspection also looks at more than just the adequacy requirements. Because quality is so much more than just ticking off some of those formal things. On that part, I think that the inspection can also very well take that mark as a directive. This will mostly be the case in schools that have applied for that label and which comply with the standards. You only get that quality mark if you meet a certain language level. If the inspection finds that there is a label, she will say that it is well done there. If that is not there, she will point out and she will say: if you want to organize this properly, you have to bring it to that level. Then we will also look at what that means for the quality of education at such a school as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u51	Perhaps it is good for the Acts to document that the motion is also intended as the Secretary of State who is now interpreting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u52	Then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber with peace of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u53	Let me get this straight. In the first term, the Secretary of State indicated that there should be a legal basis for a formal role of the inspection. There isn't, so there can't be that kind of surveillance. The monitoring he is now referring to is just monitoring to remind the school itself that it does not have a quality mark and to possibly highlight the possibility of a quality mark. Or does it still go further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u54	I would say that it goes even further. The inspection will, of course, check whether quality care at school is good, whether the support structure for pupils in need of extra care or those who are lagging behind is well organised, whether the learning outcomes are developing properly. These are all indicators or parameters that say something about the quality of education and not just about those three or four hours in another language, but what that means for the functioning of a school and for the quality as a whole. If that does not go well or if it goes backwards, there is certainly a reason for the inspection to intervene on the basis of formal requirements. Now I can imagine that a good school has done such a good job in practice. Again, I am always leaning on the experience in secondary education, where it turns out that all schools that give that bilingual education all have such a quality mark and therefore all their teachers at the B2 level have brought that is a good language level to organize it properly. In my view, this is an exception. Now, if they're gonna do this in primary school, let's say there's a single school that doesn't apply to that. Then the inspection can do a number of things. Then she will point out: if you want to do this right, do it according to the royal route with such a quality mark and otherwise it will also be a reason for the inspection to see if the other things at such a school are properly arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u55	If I listen to it correctly, it does not in fact mean a change in the system that has been in place so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u56	It will certainly be a change in the system, in the sense that the law will not be amended. But if we are to be able to take the first small step in primary education with this bilingual education, new schools will be created using it. Thus, the inspection of the way in which it supervises these schools will also have to develop a new working method similar to that in secondary education. By checking whether the label is in order and whether the conditions are in order. This label is tested by the EP-Nuffic. You don't get a label with enough stamps at Albert Heijn, you must have done something for that. So it's also being tested if those teachers are on level. The inspection now says: if there is a label, we can trust that it has been properly sealed. Seems to be working pretty well, too. It's about the case that it isn't. Then the inspection will certainly do something different than what it is doing at the moment. The second motion is from Mrs Nooren. I do not know if it has been signed by more Members, but the motion is about accessibility. I can be brief about that. I wouldn't mind if we took it with us in the investigation. It will not be a collection tray, but over the next two years we will follow closely what this means for the quality in language and other subjects. That all weighs in two years' time, if we can keep everything under review for the first time. Then we can say something meaningful about it. Then it is good to take these points actively. Finally, I come to the motion by Mr Pijlman and others. Maybe I can take it with me as follows. I tried to link it to the Platform Education2032 in the first term. The reason is that I see in education, including in the curriculum of the pabos, that there are partial aspects of the curriculum that are being cycled in or that need to be changed every once in a while. The common complaint in education is that it is said that one aspect is being lifted, but that the playing field is not being considered as a whole. That is also a bit of the risk when you say: we are going to create a separate vision for English in education, apart from all the other things that go to primary schools and pabos. Tomorrow it will be so to speak bullying and social security. A week later, it's movement education. The pabos can improve on that too. I'm taking the motion as part of what we're working on from December. I suspect that the Platform Education2032 is going to say something about the position of English in education, primary education and secondary education. Then we take the whole line, not only what this means for the content of education and the key objectives in primary and secondary education, but also what this would require for the training of teachers. In my view, then, we are doing justice to what is being asked in the motion, without isolating it. That would be very much my preference. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u57	That was the second-term reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-11.u58	I'm here to deal with the bill. Anybody want a vote on the bill? I note that this is the case. Then I suggest that next Tuesday we vote on this bill and the motions.
