ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-10.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister of Finance. We have three participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. A brief reopening of the debate we are using to table a motion. The VVD has already tabled an amendment to exclude the telecoms sector from the rules of the Financial Supervision Act. The CDA has filed a motion to grant an exemption on the basis of a covenant. It has been held by the CDA, but we want the sector to be clear and also to have the opportunity to conclude a code of conduct, so that we do not have to deal with the administrative burden arising from the Wft and not with consumers either. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that by a ruling of the Supreme Court on 12 June 2014, the telecommunications sector for a pay-off device falls under the rules of the Financial Supervision Act (Wft);]] [[noting that the Directive 2008/48/EC (Consumer Credit Directive) allows exemption from, for example, the provision of a telephone subscription;]] [[Whereas the Wft rules in this case create additional administrative burdens and regulatory burdens for businesses and consumers;]] [[Whereas the telecommunications sector is already being discussed about the prevention of problematic debt and prevention measures;]] [[calls on the government to invite the telecoms sector to come up with a code of conduct as a sector to deal with the prevention and handling of "mobile debt";]] [[In addition, if a code of conduct is adopted before 1 January 2016 which it considers sufficiently in line with the above-mentioned objective, the Government requests that an exemption regime be established for the telecommunications sector in relation to the Wft,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34198-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-10.u3	Does it say "1 January 2016" or "1 January 2017"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-10.u4	2016. If you have heard "2017," I have spoken unclearly. I have one final comment to make. We prefer the amendment that we have tabled. As far as we are concerned, this is a second best option. Like the Minister in the more detailed report, we assume that if there are other sectors with similar problems, such as publishing companies, they will also be able to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you. Mr Nijboer cut off his speaking time. I call Mr Omtzigt, also the last speaker from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. The debate was actually about two jumping points. The first point has just been raised by Mrs De Vries. Thank you for the comprehensive answer to the second point on the telecoms sector and the Wft. As Mrs De Vries said, we are hesitant. The Minister states that neither the covenant nor a code of conduct can be enforced in any way. The Minister has given a rather extensive discourse on this subject. As we see some more problematic debts in the telecommunications sector than we expected, we do not yet know whether that is sufficient, especially if Mrs De Vries says that consumers should not be burdened by being covered by the Wft. It affects you because we want to avoid practices that sometimes take place, not always and not by everyone, and which cause a number of young people to get into debt. I would like to come back to the main point: the rotation of the accountants. Thank you to the government for settling this properly through a note of amendment. Also thank you for bringing it into law in the short term. This way, it just says it nicely. I note, however, that all this time seems to have gone unnoticed in the Chamber, in the Council of State and in the Government, that there was a possible conflict. The government indicates that there was indeed one further opinion on another law. She's very honest about that. However, I would like to make one more point. There are companies that changed accountants on a set basis because they thought that the Van Vliet amendment would enter into force on 1 January 2016. That amendment will therefore not enter into force now. As a result, the Regulation will have direct effect and the legal period of 10 years will, in most cases, start from 2014. By 2024 companies will therefore change audit firms. Are we now in any danger of claims? Does the Minister share the view that this rapid exchange may have made a number of companies less well controlled, because everyone has changed accountants very quickly and so there has been no peaceful transition process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the point raised by Mr Omtzigt and then by Mrs De Vries' motion. The Dutch legislature, which are the Chamber and the Cabinet......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As of 1 January 2013, national legislation has already been put in place, incorporating amendments from, if I recall correctly, Mr Plasterk and Mr Van Vliet. Those amendments see things as office rotation and separation of advice and accountancy. That is the point Mr Omtzigt is asking about how much time companies will have to switch. That national legislation provided for a transitional period of three years. In itself, nothing inaudible has happened. The Dutch legislator is, of course, free to put that into national law as long as there are no European regulations with direct effect. In 2014, therefore, after that law had already been in force, a European regulation has been introduced which provides for a much longer transitional period. This has not been noted by us, nor by the sector. It hasn't actually been noticed in any place. If companies had noticed that and had therefore postponed their rotation, it would have been neatly in accordance with European law and in this case it would have exceeded the Dutch provisions. Mr Omtzig asked if there would be any claims. Of course, I don't know. I do know that the Dutch legislator has taken steps that are perfectly justifiable, because at that time there was no European legislation. Mr Omtzig also asked: did these companies change very quickly, did this not affect the quality of the audit report? I don't think so. That discussion has been going on for a while. A transitional period of three years was also provided for in Dutch legislation. So it wasn't that impossible. The European transitional regime is much and much longer. You can take a critical look at that, but it's the way it is. I come to Mrs De Vries' motion. That's the motion in part No. 16. Mr Omtzigt has indeed tabled a motion in which he actually suggests that we should talk to the sector about a covenant or a code of conduct, so as to prevent the AFM from maintaining the Wft in this sector. This is mainly about telephone subscriptions in which the purchase price for a telephone is encrypted. That motion is now under arrest. The motion tabled by Mrs De Vries is something else. It invites the government to come up with a code of conduct with the telecommunications sector. I have to say it more precisely, because the motion is also more precise: the telecoms sector must come up with a code of conduct. We can, of course, encourage this sector to do so. If that code of conduct is implemented before 1 January, the government is asked to allow an exemption from the Wft obligations. As I said in response to the Omtzigt motion, I am prepared to take that route, but I should like to make some comments. These are actually the same comments that Mr Omtzigt made in his term. As far as I am concerned, it remains essential that the interests secured in the Wft return to the code of conduct in a sufficiently strong and sufficiently qualitative way. Of course, the code of conduct offers the possibility of tailor-made work for the sector, and that is also fine. The underlying objectives: transparency and the prevention of overcrediting and so on, must be really well secured in the code. My touchstone will be that the code of conduct has sufficient concrete targets for enforcement. Then you can still see by who and how it is maintained. I'm just gonna ask you to park it. The code of conduct must be enforceable, otherwise we will make promises, but then we will have no idea whether they will be adhered to and what its meaning is. Furthermore, the exemption will be shaped within the scope of the Wft and the Consumer Credit Directive. That is, of course, a fact. For me, January 1st is a hard deadline. If the sector fails to draw up and commit to an adequate code of conduct before 1 January, with the above-mentioned safeguards, broad connection and enforcement, the AFM will fully enforce the Wft provisions for the sector. With these strict comments, I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. On Tuesday we shall vote on the legislative proposal, the amendment and the motion. When the Secretary of State appears, we immediately proceed with the remainder of the General Financial Reviews. I'll suspend until then.
