ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in this debate, in particular the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice. Thirteen Members have been present for this debate. A speaking time of five minutes per Member shall apply. I call Mr Wilders of the PVV first. Mr Kuzu, however, has a point of order first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	That's right, a point of order. The attacks in Paris have, of course, been terrible and this debate has all the ingredients to become violent and emotional. I therefore ask you and my colleagues to be particularly attentive not to allow statements that undermine our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you for this call. I call Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Madam President. 129 innocent people, all murdered. Hundreds wounded, including three compatriots. Friends, who enjoyed a drink together on the terrace of Le Carillon café and Le Petit Cambodia in the 10th arrondissement of Paris. Girls, who enjoyed the Friday night and the beginning of the weekend just a little bit further at pizzeria La Casa Nostra. They were the victims of the bullets from the kalashnikovs of the Muslim terrorists. Couple of guys meeting on the terrace of restaurant La Belle Equipe, brutally and ruthlessly murdered. All those people, young people, who went to the concert in the music hall Bataclan, a little further, in the eleventh arrondissement; innocent people, in blind panic, like rats in the trap. The last thing they heard was the triumphal cry of evil, the proud cry of the enemy, Allahu akbar. Butchered in a bloodbath that doesn't match. Indescribable suffering, indescribable! I don't have any words for it. All that pain, all that grief, all those innocent people who left their partner, their father, their mother, their children, their brother, their sister, their friends and acquaintances involuntarily in inhuman and almost unbearable grief. I share that grief, but I'm also angry, very angry. In Paris, so many people were brutally robbed of their lives by Muslim terrorists, including returned Syrians. According to media reports, one of the terrorists came into Europe with the flow of refugees. How many times have we warned you about that? What happened this weekend in France can also happen tomorrow in the Netherlands. That is the terrible reality. The cabinet, this cabinet, our cabinet, is shamefully failing to do its duty. The asylum procedure in the Netherlands is one big hole cheese. Even crooks with false papers can simply enter the asylum procedure, with all the risks of that. Almost 12,000 people have entered the asylum procedure without papers this year alone. Unbelievable! We don't even know who we're letting in! This is how we make it very easy for the evildoers and the terrorists. Not only Dutch Syrians who return, but also terrorists or Syrians from France or Belgium can just drive into our country at Hazeldonk, with a trunk full of kalashnikovs and bomb belts. The borders are still wide open. Molenbeek, the Gaza Strip of the Benelux, is only an hour's drive from the Netherlands. As I said in the debate we had in January of this year, after these cowardly attacks in Paris, with Charlie Hebdo: how many more attacks are there to take place? How many innocent people have to die before the quarter finally falls to you, Prime Minister? Of course it's war. It has been for 1,400 years and that war is called jihad. The jihad is the core of Islam. That is not an opinion; that is a fact, a fact. The only question we all have to answer here is: do we finally fight back or do we sign the capitulation? I say through you, Madam President, to the Prime Minister that tough statements about war will not help us if there are no appropriate measures. What exactly have you done since the Charlie Hebdo debate in January? 60,000 additional asylum seekers have entered our country. You facilitated an Islamic invasion: 12,000 people last month alone. According to the European Union, there are even 3 million people coming to Europe next year, thanks to your open borders, Mr Rutte. The Prime Minister is there and he looks at it, but I am here for the safety of the Dutch. That's all that matters now. I say to the Prime Minister with the greatest possible urgency: close those borders for returning Syrians and for asylum seekers. That has to happen now. I think at the beginning of this year 40 Syrians had returned to the Netherlands. You sent it back. Fasten that one today. We have seen in Paris where it can lead, if we do not. Surely it will not be the case that if we do not lock up that enemy, we will have the same scenes here in The Hague or Amsterdam as last weekend in Paris? Enter administrative detention so that we can secure possible terrorists preventively. If it's war, Mr. Rutte, then they're the enemy, and then we have to lock them up. There's no alternative. If you don't, you're not the leader of the Netherlands. You're from the Daddy and Wet Department. Are you from the soft healers department making stinky wounds? Are you from the department? Let's look the other way. Are you from the department bowing to Brussels and kneeling to Merkel. If you don't lock those people up, I'll give you confidence. My last sentence is that Islam does not belong in the Netherlands. As long as we don't do anything about it, attacks will continue. I know you don't want to hear it all. But it's the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	We are facing a great evil, the evil of jihadism. The big question is who our supporters are. Mr Wilders now says that we have been at war with Islam for 1,400 years, with Islam supporters, while they are Muslims in the first front line against the evils of jihadism, while they are Kurdish Muslims who are fighting against this evil with danger for their own lives. I have a simple question for Mr Wilders. He sketches it as the fight against Islam, in other words against all Muslims. Does he need more or less opponents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have been fighting for this for more than ten years, but Mr Segers has really not been paying attention. I never said we were fighting against all Muslims. That's bullshit. I've always made that distinction. We are fighting Islam here. Yes, Islam is an evil ideology. And yes, Muhammad's life is the example of a warlord that we should not give people. And yes, the Qur'an is a fascist, violent book. Sure! That does not mean that Muslims are not the victims of this. That does not mean that we are fighting against all Muslims. But I can assure you that all these great attacks here in Europe over the past ten years, from Madrid to Paris, to the Jewish Museum in Brussels, to London, to our own Theo van Gogh in Amsterdam, have in common that they are inspired by that violent Islam. I say to you, Mr Segers: as long as we do not recognise this, as long as we preach politically correct bullshit stories, I am not saying that you do. Nothing will change in the Netherlands and the attacks will continue to occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	Nine out of ten victims of jihadism are Muslims. The first fighters against jihadism are Muslims, there in the region. I have lived in that region for seven years, I know the evils of jihadism, I know that the world of Islam has dark sides. But I also know that we have allies, and I also know that we have potential supporters. Are they also Mr Wilders's supporters? I am referring to Muslims who, while maintaining their own beliefs, are fighting against this evil. Are those Mr Wilders' allies, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	The more Muslims fight against it, the better. But where are they? Where are they? I'm not talking about the couple hundred in Rotterdam this week. I expected hundreds of thousands of Muslims to go out in the Netherlands and Europe to protest what happened in Paris. I haven't seen them. I didn't see them then and I don't see them now. So those allies of yours are very scarce.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	They were there. They were there at the mosque in Rotterdam...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	Hardly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	...they've demonstrated, it's thousands of Kurds fighting against ISIS. My appeal to Mr Wilders is: do not push potential allies away from you, but stand shoulder to shoulder against the evil of jihadism. Then it comes to language, in a different language than Mr Wilders has just used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	Unfortunately, we have hardly seen any protests. If only they were there. I say to Mr Segers: we must de-islamize the Netherlands. We need to get rid of Islam. That's the only solution. Don't keep daddy-and-wet off Islam. If we do not, then we will continue the misery and attacks we have seen over the past decades. We have brought the Trojan Horse to Europe, we have not asked them to assimilate, but they have been pampered from all sides, we have not acted against the aggressive among them and we will finally have to do so. What we need to start with is closing the borders for people from Islamic countries, stopping the asylum influx, because we don't even know who we're bringing in: 12,000 people, almost all Muslims, without papers that we just allow. That's asking for trouble. I don't understand why you're interrupting about our friends. They are not all our enemies, but ideology is dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	I would like to draw your attention to the element that very few Muslims have spoken of in recent days. Mr. Wilders hasn't seen them. We had a very worthy meeting in Rotterdam. In several municipalities in the country we held a minute's silence in a very dignified way. In Amsterdam, Muslims and Jews protested hand in hand against these dirty attacks in Paris. How can it be that Mr Wilders is putting Islam away, and the Muslims are adding Muslims believe in Islam, without indicating that they are contributing to the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	Both are not true, because once again, I am talking about this evil, violent ideology and not about the people. So, yes, for you to put that together, says more about you than about me, because I didn't. Secondly, there were almost none. Maybe someplace in Rotterdam. I think there were more people from the NOS-Journaal, who liked to broadcast that live, well filmed, so that everyone in the Netherlands thinks there were 3 million people. It wasn't, it wasn't. The reality is that I have not seen mass demonstrations throughout the Netherlands, in Paris or elsewhere where Muslims stand up in large numbers and say: this is not my Islam. I haven't seen them. As long as I don't see them, it's the minority that can do whatever it wants, because the majority tolerates it. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Wilders closes his eyes to reality. 'Cause they were there. If you don't want to see it, you don't see it. My appeal here is: let us join together, Muslims and non-Muslims, all the beliefs together that are going to make a fist against terrorism. That's the battle we're going to have to fight with each other. But what I see here is that Mr Wilders lives in a false reality, doesn't want to see what's happening in society, with which he sows discord. Why does he do that all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	The reality is that in Europe we have seen for decades, at least for a long time, attacks from "Allahoe akbar" calling people, Muslims, from Madrid to Amsterdam, from the Jewish Museum in Brussels to the metro in London. This has happened since we allowed mass immigration from Islamic countries. We did not do that; other political forces have done so. At the same time, we see, every time, that there is no massive protest against this. I do not want to cause discord, I want to make the Netherlands a safe country. We've had all this misery since we imported Islam here. I say that we must de-islamize in order to make the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	It's the only way you're gonna make it. If we are to fight terrorism together, we must ensure that we do so together. This means that we should not distinguish between Muslims and non-Muslims, or between Muslims and non-Muslims. That's what we have to do with each other. We must remember the safety of our country. That's what we have to be shoulder-to-shoulder for. What Mr Wilders has been calling for for 11 years is already happening in society. I see it's happening more and more often. All anti-terrorist experts also say that we must fight the breeding ground together. The NCTV indicates in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands last June that Mr Wilders' statements also have a magnetic form in bringing terror into the Netherlands. How does Mr Wilders see his own role in this? Mr. Wilders, you're a terror magnet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	One time Mr Kuzu calls me "a growth," the other time he calls me "Hitler." He can do all that, whatever we think of it, but I am standing here for one thing, namely the safety of the Netherlands. I stand for fighting the root of evil. The root of evil is called Islam. I-s-l-a-m. Islam. We will not rest until we have de-Islamicized the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	I want to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	You can make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	We did not compare Mr Wilders with Hitler. We said he's on his way to be that. I'm still very supportive of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	It's listed in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	Madam President. The barbaric attacks in Paris touch us all deeply. The CDA sympathizes with the next of kin, the wounded and all the French. These attacks once again put our noses on the facts. Our open society is vulnerable. Terror threat comes from IS in Syria and Iraq, but also from Muslim terrorists among us. We have the expensive task of defending an ancient community of values against them. A community of values in which respect for the other and each other's beliefs must speak for themselves. Only those who are willing to accept our Jewish-Christian values as a basis for our society will have room for us. Even before Paris, we should not be naive about this. The solution to this problem is long-term and not self-evident. It takes uncomfortable choices. For example, in order to discover terrorists, we must be prepared to give our security services more space by giving them access to the cable and by allowing them to store passenger data at international level, so that they can also find the terrorists among passengers. I call on colleagues to finally support this. Returners are still treated like ordinary criminals, but by now we know that they are our enemy. Is the cabinet prepared to put them first when the returners of ISIS are here and not release them until it is clear that they are not a danger? Fighting terror also means: enough money for the security chain. How is it possible that this cabinet is making such a big deal about it? It was the Chamber that had to reverse the totally irresponsible cuts on the intelligence services after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo. Once again, it seems to be the Chamber of Appeal that has to enforce a more solid budget for the justice chain. Is the cabinet prepared to allocate at least EUR 200 million extra to justice? Combating terrorism also means making our democracy resilient, banning anti-democratic parties and criminalising the glorification of violence. I have here the Integral Approach Jihadism Action Plan, from the summer of 2014, which was presented by the cabinet with a lot of tamtam. No law of the laws announced therein has yet passed the Official Journal. The Anti-Terrorism Act has never been heard from again. This cannot be done if the fight against terrorism is a serious matter, I say to this Prime Minister. I'm asking the Cabinet to make more haste. Protecting us from terror also means guarding borders. Europe is good at opening borders, but it is bad at guarding them. Is the Prime Minister prepared to return to his somewhat premature statement that he also does not want to transfer sovereignty for border control and to do so if Europe can do better than the Greeks and the Italians? If these external borders are not properly guarded, the internal borders will need to be better protected. Interestingly, a number of countries are now taking the initiative brought out by the Ministry. I do not want such important initiatives to come to us through sources around the cabinet. I would ask the Prime Minister to clarify what initiatives there are for a smaller Schengen system, because if external borders are not guarded, it is in itself reasonable to improve internal borders. Last Saturday, our Prime Minister said: "IS is our enemy; with that we are at war." That's a major change from the period before Paris, because even after Charlie Hebdo, the Prime Minister always explicitly avoided that word. After Saturday, the Deputy Prime Minister again said: "I expressly do not take that word; those are not my words." In the letter to the Chamber, the whole phrase "We are at war" is no longer used. A cabinet that cannot agree on whether there is a war against IS is creating confusion in times when clarity is needed. That's not moral leadership. No, for moral leadership we do not have to go to our Prime Minister in The Hague these days; for that we have to go to Rotterdam, to Mayor Ahmed Aboutaleb. He chooses the right words, he stands firm against radicalism and he unites Muslim and Christian without being soft. To him, the Prime Minister should take an example. Now that the Netherlands is apparently at war, we must realise that a war cannot end with a 1-1 tie. The enemy must be defeated. At the moment, our defence apparatus is mainly a sales organisation for surplus equipment. It is no longer possible for a Prime Minister to say that the Netherlands is at war; I understand that he has repeated this just before this debate. The CDA is therefore asking for more money for the Defense Department. There is an amendment tabled by the CDA, I say the equally technically soundly covered amendment for at least EUR 200 million extra for the Defence budget. Then there are only the worst needs, but then we know that there is no further equipment to be sold, that we can use the military force to guard the borders and that we can at last actually intervene in other countries, especially Syria. The CDA expects from the cabinet and from this Prime Minister that the word "war" means more money for Defence than the lousy tip that has been added to it this year. I'm rounding up. The cabinet has been deliberating for months about bombing IS in Syria. We are at war with IS in Syria and the Netherlands only stands, across the border, to wave a flag and hopes that the other countries will let their bombs hit. It can't be. You can't take that seriously. The last thing I want to do is get to the refugee stream. It turns out we don't know enough about who's coming into the Netherlands. That needs to be done better; we need to know who we are protecting in the Netherlands. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. "Friday evening you have stolen the life of an extraordinary person, the love of my life, my son's mother, but you will not have my hatred. I saw her this morning. Finally, after nights and days of waiting. She was as beautiful as when she left Friday night, just as beautiful as when I fell in love with her 12 years ago. Of course I am torn by grief, I admit that little victory, but it will be of short duration. There are two of us, my son and I, but we are stronger than all the armies in the world. He's been 17 months. For the rest of his life, this little boy will harass you by being happy and free. Indeed, you will not have his hatred." These are fragments from the impressive letter Antoine Leiris wrote after the murder of his wife by jihadists in Paris. It is a superior reaction, which places freedom against freedom and life against a cult of death. It shows that this is a battle of ideas. It is a battle in which on Friday 129 people were killed and countless wounded. It is a battle whose front lies not only in Syria and Iraq, but also in Paris, Molenbeek, Hanover, in our own neighbourhoods, villages and cities. This makes it clear that on all these fronts we must stand up against jihadism. What we need is not something that sounds tough, but something that really works; not symbolism policy with barriers, but security policy that is effective. It is good that the services have been put in a position of readiness and that border controls are being stepped up. However, I would like to know whether targeted mobile border controls can be increased enough, within the existing borders of Schengen. Is it true that the Netherlands, together with a number of neighbouring countries, will monitor the external borders? Has the mind of the attacks, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, been able to travel freely in Europe? If so, how the hell is that possible? Effective security policy also begins where radicalisation begins: in the banlieues of Paris and Brussels. There are thousands of young people wandering around that are susceptible to this dark form of Islam. There is hardly any grip or vision on them. Fortunately, in the Netherlands the situation is better due to the good cooperation between district agents, community work, parole and intelligence services. Is the Cabinet prepared to offer the experience of this to the other European countries? Is the cabinet prepared to do even more work on this local approach in the Netherlands? After all, policemen in risky neighbourhoods can actually spend one day a week on intelligence work. Deposit from the National Police the fight against terrorism by getting the work done no longer by temporary teams, but by permanent specialists! Finally, make serious work of the deficits in the budget of Security and Justice! Can the Prime Minister promise that the cabinet will actually deliver on this issue? Then I come to the international fight against ISIS. French President Hollande is working hard on an international coalition to intensify the fight against ISIS. However, this will only happen if the countries in the region themselves intensify their fight against IS. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? The fight against IS will only be successful if a diplomatic solution to the conflict in Syria is also worked out. Is there a visual on that? Will the Netherlands continue to be involved in providing air support? Sending Dutch and other Western ground troops would be unwise, but arming at least the Kurds is all the more important. They have boots on the ground. How can the Netherlands help them? The violence of IS also causes daily casualties in the Middle East. Every day, people come into our country who have fled from the violence there. It is right that the Netherlands temporarily offers victims of this violence a safe place. It would be extremely bad if the attack in Paris were also an attack on our mercy. At the same time, there is the fear that jihadists also travel along. We have to do what we can to minimise that risk. Then why are the reception and screening of refugees along Europe's external borders still not regulated? I'm closing up. A lot of people are worried about this attack. That's perfectly understandable. They're worried about the threat to us here in the Netherlands. But against the terror and the freedom of IS are our freedom and our rule of law, which makes no distinction on the basis of race and faith, and also the deep conviction of people like Antoine Leiris, who shows that we are not created for hatred and terror but for love and freedom. It is our responsibility to protect what is vulnerable, but in the healthy faith that our ideas are so much stronger than those of jihadists. We can win this battle, with the commitment of our security people and our allies, with the commitment in neighborhoods, with the support of all people of good will and with the prayer of many.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. How recently has it been that we have spoken shockedly about the attacks on Charlie Hebdo and the Jewish supermarket in Paris! They were terrorist attacks on our values, in our way of life, on the freedom to organise our lives ourselves, to get the best out of yourself, to be happy, whether you're gay or straight, whether you're religious or non-believers, and without the fear that someone will take that freedom away from you, that you'll be attacked or even deprived of your life. Unfortunately, today I am standing here again to express my horror about an attack in that same Paris, a city where many of us have spent a weekend, where we enjoyed a wine or a delicious dinner on such a typical French terrace or in such a typical French bistro and where we may have visited a theatre. That's exactly what the 129 victims did last Friday. They just wanted to enjoy their Friday night after a week of hard work by simply doing what people who live in freedom like to do: going out to dinner, visiting a soccer game or going to a concert. They had to pay for it with death. We've all seen the footage, I think. I looked at it shockedly. Was this really Paris? Did this really happen in our free Western society, a few hundred kilometres away? I realized that this raises fears: fear among people who are watching this, fear that a terrorist action like this can take place here, fear of visiting another crowded place, fear that in the large flow of refugees reaching our country there may also be terrorists or, worse still, that these terrorists are simply born here and have a western passport. Everyone feels that fear. Me too. And that's when I know we're not sitting still. The threat analyses of our services have already led to many measures. Even after the previous attack, on Charlie Hebdo and the supermarket, the cabinet did not sit still. 128 million has been added for our security services. We can't rule out an attack, but we're doing everything we can to reduce the odds of it. Security has been scaled up in important areas. We see that every day when we come in here. The capacity of the IND and the security services has been increased and the services work better together internationally. Radicalising young people are better represented and monitored. It also focuses on preventing radicalisation and intervenes as hate images contribute to the creation of potential new jihad fighters. However, lessons can also be learned from this horrible attack. The VVD welcomes the fact that even faster and even better checks are being carried out on who enters our country, through increased border controls. As far as we are concerned, the armed forces are also making an important contribution to the surveillance of our borders. We are also in favour of rapid, comprehensive screening, right at the start of a residence procedure. It is a good thing that the cabinet is accelerating this. That's what I'm supposed to do. The VVD believes that it is wise to have that screening carried out from so-called freedom-limiting locations, so that we only allow someone in our society when it is clear that he or she is not a security risk. The VVD has previously indicated that someone who travels before the jihad to Syria will not return to Syria as far as she is concerned. Their nationality must be taken away. For these terrorists, there's no place in our country. When is the bill that regulates this coming back from the Council of State so that we can deal with it? The bill to regulate the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship after a conviction for terrorism is in the Upper House. Can we make haste with the treatment of this? And what about preventing people from travelling out? The VVD does not want people to travel to participate in the struggle in Syria, in order to put our society at risk with the knowledge gained there. Is the grip on this group increasing? That's what I like to hear. I told you, the security forces were strengthened in capacity after Charlie Hebdo. Both the Prime Minister and the services themselves indicate that the resources are adequate at the moment. Nevertheless, I would remind the Prime Minister of his statement that when more budget is needed, this will also be available. Unfortunately, from the Islamic community, I have also seen and heard shameful and shameful reactions to the attacks in Paris. On Facebook, the children of one of my colleagues are confronted with classmates who say they are happy that the jihad has finally begun in Europe. There are school classes that in Arabic "Allah is great" are chanting and yelling when a minute's silence is requested for the victims. That's insufferable. It shows that the integration of the second and third generation is a bad thing. What does the government do about it? How are we going to do this better with all those migrants from Islamic countries coming in now? For example, is the government prepared to ban Salafist groups from azc's? Luckily, there's another side too. I call the upset parents of terrorists, who say they do not understand the terrible acts of their own child. Or Zouheir, the Muslim-upposite who exposed the man with the bomb belt when he tried to enter the stadium. And before, there was Ahmed Merabet, the Muslim agent who did heroics in the attack on Charlie Hebdo and had to pay for it with his life. Closer to home is the Facebook community Non-Mineism, on which Muslims and non-Muslims talk about the fear of terror, which has been visited more than a million times. These are examples of Muslims who do not see themselves and their faith represented in the acts of terrorists, whether in our Western Paris or in Beirut, which was once called "the Paris of the Middle East." They are firmly aloof from that. That's a good thing. I expect Muslims to speak out against Islamic terror in the strongest terms, not because I ask them to, but because they want to, because they want to express that this is not happening on their behalf. Because if you want to enjoy democracy, you have to help her defend it. This is true of all of us, because if we become increasingly opposed to each other, extremism will reign high and democracy will be the great loser. We're not gonna let that happen. We are going to prove that our democracy is not only resilient, but also much stronger than barbaric Muslim extremistism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	I have a question for the colleague of the VVD Group on returned Syrians. He knows that dozens of people have left for Syria who have sent the cabinet back to the Netherlands, to my great dismay. We have seen in Paris what, apart from homegrown terrorists, these kinds of people are capable of. Does Mr Zijlstra agree with me and does he share my appeal to the cabinet that we should put those dozens of people who are now free in the Netherlands, because they are not all trapped, immediately in order to protect Dutch society from these kinds of figures, who are able to do what happened in Paris this weekend?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	I think we should do everything we can to protect the rule of law without putting it aside. The VVD tabled a motion, together with the CDA, one and a half years ago to create a title for that purpose, so that people who are voluntarily in terrorist territory, for example in the IS area, commit a criminal offence. Then you can lock them up. Right now, we can't do that under our laws. If we don't have rules for that, we shouldn't put other rules aside. As far as the VVD is concerned, they are created so that this can be done. But I'm not going on the route of putting aside the rule of law, which we create ourselves, because we have a problem with it. Then we would do exactly what terrorists want us to do, namely to violate our own values, our own freedoms and our own rules. I'm not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	I'm not talking about everyone. I'm talking about the returned Syrians. They have shown in Paris what they are capable of: killing 129 innocent people. You're talking about setting aside the rule of law. They're talking about setting aside innocent lives with a kalashnikov and a bomb belt. Those kind of people, dozens of them, are now out there in the streets of the Netherlands. It can't be that we're gonna let that happen, can it? Surely it can't be that the VVD says: it can't be any different, so let them walk around? We're gonna take them out of the country or we're gonna lock them down, right? There are currently dozens of people who have the same conscience when they came back from Syria as the people who subsequently committed those murders in Paris. How can you say we shouldn't do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	That's not what I'm saying. Mr Wilders must listen carefully. We indicated a year and a half ago that something must be done about it. For that, you have to change the law. In a democracy, you need a majority for that. There wasn't one. It's as simple as that. In addition, we have proposed other measures, which the cabinet is currently working on. I made the call again. Hurry up with that. Syrians who fought there have been, as far as I am concerned, in the service of a foreign force. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is only one consequence: losing your passport; immediately. Then you don't belong in this country anymore. If you're still here, you're going to leave the country. It doesn't matter to the VVD if it makes you stateless. That's what I've said before. That is an individual problem. If you're such a moron to do that, and it makes you stateless, then that's your own problem. We should not make that problem the problem of our own rule of law, because it is the problem of that individual. Those are the measures we need to take. That is what the cabinet, and we ourselves as a parliament, must get on with. However, I also note that at the moment there is not enough legal basis to secure everyone for a short while. Before that, there was a motion from the VVD, but it didn't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	Conclusion: there are currently dozens of returned Syrians in the Netherlands, in Amsterdam, Eindhoven, The Hague and everywhere in the country. Those are people who are able to do the same thing in Amsterdam this weekend as their colleagues did in Paris last weekend. And the VVD says, forget it, maybe we'll do something about it in the future, but just walk around tomorrow. I say to the VVD Group that they need to be arrested today. Today, the Netherlands must become safer. We can't wait. They waited in Paris, and look what happened there. You have to perform now, not in three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	The VVD performed a year and a half ago, but we have a democracy in which you need majorities to take action. Those are the attempts we made and continue to make. The cabinet must implement the measures already agreed on as soon as possible. I don't think that's doing nothing, but taking care of very fundamental things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	I would like to comment on the danger of salafism. The CDA has been having a discussion with the Minister of Defence about salafists in the Dutch army for a long time. The Secretary of Defense says this can be done and that this is an individual choice. It's only when someone turns out to be violent that they can't. The CDA thinks Salafism is a totalitarian ideology that is dangerous and does not belong in the army. If the VVD joins, it will be possible to force the Minister to stop these Salafists. That has been happening in Germany for a long time. Is the VVD prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	Let it be clear: if groups are to be antidemocratic and have the aim of overthrowing democracy in order to create another form of living together, which is not ours, I believe that such groups should be dealt with in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	I'm gonna see if we mean the same thing. Anyone who is a Salafist should therefore be refused from the Dutch army?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	Step one is that you find that the group does. I think that is a rather essential step. If you find that out, you shouldn't bring people like that into the army.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	I am going to try again, because Mr Zijlstra is actually turning a bit into his answer to a very simple question. In Germany, a very simple answer is given to that question. That's where they say salafists don't come in. The CDA says salafists can't get in. If the VVD also says so, we will have a solution to this problem tomorrow. If the VVD says that we need to know whether Salafists want to overthrow democracy, the Minister can say: leave the door open. If the VVD joins, the door closes. If the VVD doesn't do this, the armed forces' door will remain open to Salafists. That's just dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	I don't think there's much Spanish here. We believe that this kind of people should be prevented, but there is that one essential step. You have different kinds of salafism, as Mr Buma undoubtedly knows. When it comes to political salafism and jihadsalafism, it is very clear. As far as I'm concerned, those guys aren't getting in by definition. In the religious Salafist movement that even has pacifist traits, you have to ask whether someone has the intention of overthrowing society or not. In a rule of law, you always have to ask that question, at least that's what I think. I'm willing to answer that question. When you look at the salafistic current in the broad sense, you see that it has many characteristics of an anti-democratic group. I think it is unwise, therefore, to go a long way with Mr Buma to include people with such a background in the armed forces. I believe that the cabinet should take a serious look at this and that we should be stricter than we are today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr Zijlstra said in his speech that Muslims should distance themselves more strongly from terror than non-Muslims. I wonder if it would not be better if the largest party in the Netherlands indicated at the moment that we should do this with each other. We must, unitedly, all of us, Muslims or non-Muslims, firmly distance ourselves from terror. Wouldn't that be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'd say read the Acts. I didn't say this. I have said that I expect a strong response from Muslims. I did not say that I expect them to react more strongly than others, because I think that is almost impossible. Everyone takes a very powerful distance from this. I think it's pretty hard to outdo that. I therefore expect Muslims to do so in a broad sense. And not because I want to, because then it has no value. That's like saying "sorry" to your kid and then saying sorry. I'd rather the kid apologize on his own. The same applies to the broad Muslim community. Eventually, it's about the soil and looking away. Do you, as a large group, actively want to defend the democracy that benefits you yourself? That is what this is about, and that is why it is so important for the Muslim community to say in a broad sense that this is not what it stands for. This will ensure that we really avoid the contradiction that I mentioned in my contribution and which I want to avoid. I do not want them to speak out against it more strongly, not at all, but in a broad sense very strongly, just like the rest. They must give the rest of society the feeling: this is not what we are, we absolutely do not want this kind of thing in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	I am glad that at least this misunderstanding is now being removed. Anyone who is against terror must strongly distance himself from it. But Mr Zijlstra makes the distinction in his contribution. He now indicates that he does not want to increase the opposition, but he does have the need to name it and I will go into that. Why is that necessary? These are people who have been living peacefully in this country for decades for the most part of the time. Why is this distinction necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	I gave the examples. It is truly shameful when large groups of young people are asked for a minute's silence for the 129 victims, go yelling and provoking and chanting: Allah is great. It is shameful that large groups of young people say to their classmates who are afraid, "The jihad has begun, you will be next." This is shameful and must be removed, especially by the Islamic community. When these things are brushed away, the feeling of opposites on the other hand is only fed. I expect Mr Kuzu, in view of his interruption, not to brush this away. This is shameful and we must dare to do so. We must not cover this with the cloak of love, for that is the worst thing we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	Count on it. I have done so often enough in the past, and I will repeat this today. Not because Mr Zijlstra is asking for it, but because I am convinced of it. I find it strange that Mr Zijlstra speaks of mistrust and that he is still trying to make that distinction, even though I do not see that comparison at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	A democracy works if we exchange our opinions freely and we do not talk. In the cramp that this society has been in for a long time, we should not run away and not say: I do not want to hurt the other too much, so I am not saying it. This kind of discussion helps. If Mr Kuzu indicates what he stands for, it has great value. I'll tell you what I stand for, too. We sometimes agree and sometimes disagree, but democracy and democracy need discussions of this kind. Then you should not run away from the shameful things that happen, because that they are shameful, hopefully there is no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr Zijlstra pointed out that there was no majority in parliament for criminalising the voluntary departure to ISIS area. However, there was a majority in the Chamber for a motion asking the government to consider whether it is possible to obtain a separate title for this. The SGP Group also supported this motion. That investigation has now been carried out. Is the VVD going through with this? Is she holding this point? Can we expect further proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	We were and are in favour of that point, because you need to create a title in a rule of law to hold on to that kind of people, even if there does not seem to be an immediate threat. You're right. You don't know what it means. These people have fought in Syria; that they are a potential danger, I don't think you need to explain. We will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	That is why I think it is an important point that you do not let people who have gained experience in the ISIS area wander around here as much and as long as possible. Look for a title to criminalize them and secure them. The investigation shows that this is difficult and difficult. Is Mr Zijlstra now asking the cabinet to come forward with a proposal, or can we expect proposals from the VVD Group to take this issue forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	I would like to see the cabinet come up with proposals of this kind, and I would like to take this opportunity if only because it is extremely difficult to provide this with a legally good title. We also want to ensure that people who are deradicalized at the end of the journey and have learned there that this is not the route they have to go, are reintegrated into society at some point. They must be given the second chance that comes with democracy. But when they come back, you have to have a title to deal with them. Surely you must be reasonable enough to go there and fight against all those democratic values that have given you the life we know here. In my opinion, there is no Islamic country that knows democracy and freedoms and where Sunnis can live among Shiites or Shiites under Sunnis. This only happens in Western democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	I appreciate that Mr Zijlstra does not say that he has an answer, but that he is looking for an answer and that he expresses his fears. I'm also afraid of the people who come back from Syria. I also wonder how we can deal with these people. I want to find a solution with you. On a good day, if things go really well, they'll end up in the criminal justice chain. If things go bad, we'll follow them. There's really nothing in between. We hope they get into deradicalization programs. How does Mr Zijlstra view the proposal to ask the cabinet to oblige people who return to participate? So we can see if they want to come back to us or if they have finally said goodbye and choose IS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	We have to do this too, but you also need a title for that. If we still get the motion approved with the support of GroenLinks, then I think that is a good thing. Because you're gonna need a title to decriminalize them or force them into a deradicalisation process. One side of the matter is that we want to establish that these people are not dangerous. Where they are often a danger, we want to deradicalize them or simply secure them, because society must be protected from these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	In my view, this is the conversation we should be having instead of talking about the motions that we are going to support or not. The core is: how do we deal with the people who come back? Can we give them a chance and choose a route in which they are either taken out of society because they are a danger or they come back and we help them? I'd like to take Mr Zijlstra on that quest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	I'm liberal. That means I'm always willing to give people a second chance. They must seize that opportunity and there must be opportunities to help them. If we can find each other on that, that's good. The other side of liberalism is that it sees security as a central task of the government. We must protect society from those who are not prepared to take a second chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. There have been countless words in the last few days. Words of compassion. Encouraging words. Searching words. That's good. It's necessary, but it's not enough. Don't be afraid, the people at the Place de la République said to each other after the attacks. Then a lamp snapped somewhere and the crowd broke up in blind panic. Terrified. I told an angry man at the Binnenhof we shouldn't let him break up. Well, apparently we can just let him shoot us, he bit me. These are confrontational images and painful accusations. Our answer must consist of more than words. Our response must also be to increase security and surveillance of sensitive objects and events, to strengthen European cooperation between intelligence services, to increase mobile border controls, to speed up the current anti-terrorist and investigative legislation, to screen the refugees who are coming here, to provide assistance to the French. My group therefore supports the measures announced by the cabinet this week. These measures may sound less tough but are more effective than bombs and fences. Those who want to eliminate the terrorists who are in our society need detailed knowledge and precise instruments, not walls or carpet bombings. You can also remove a splinter from your finger with a sharp eye and a tweezers, not with a blindfold and a sledgehammer. But the real answer means more than removing the splinters. The real answer is to plan the wood. Over the past few days, we have all seen what happens when you neglect quarters, when you simply allow hopelessness, decay and abstinence to persist, when authorities withdraw and binding forces disappear. In Molenbeek and the Paris Banlieues, radicalisation takes root and extremism grows unseen into violent terrorism. Without an ounce of complacency it can be said that this is different in the Netherlands. Here, it is populist about tea-drinking neighborhood workers fortunately resist. Here, however, we have invested in the social fabric of our neighborhoods. Here we have neighborhood agents, street coaches, teachers and neighborhood fathers' eyes and hands that can intervene in time. The Dutch approach to tough prevention. Not sexy, but effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u54	It is also right to pay a great deal of attention to what is happening in those neighbourhoods. Mr. Samsom calls the neighborhood agent. Here's what I'm gonna notice. With the PvdA and the SP, we have tabled an amendment to the Police Act 2012 which in fact said: let's really try to take a step by ensuring that there is a district agent on every 5,000 inhabitants. How come I hear from a mayor again this week: I don't even get to a district cop on 10,000? And this three years after that. It's even hard in the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u55	Yeah, well, that still has to happen. It is not for nothing that we tabled this amendment at that time and not for nothing that we are striving for. I would not even say that it would be the ideal situation, but it would be a much better situation than it is today. Fortunately, it is achieved in many neighbourhoods, but not everywhere, and that still needs work. These district agents are, as far as we are concerned, along with many others in that district, the remedy against extreme extremism and ultimately terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u56	So also from the PvdA group is the appeal towards the cabinet: make sure that it really is for each other as soon as possible and that that law is simply implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u57	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u58	That neighborhood cop is one, but of course he also has many allies in the neighborhood that have also been cut. There has been a period of cuts in the budgets available for this purpose. Is this also the time to look at that again, so to reinvest alongside the district agent, also in those people and in that tissue of the neighborhoods, as Mr Samsom called it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u59	My group has always advocated investment in these neighbourhoods, even when the social climate was reversed, when the words became louder and the language tougher. Especially in the period 2010-2012 all kinds of budgets were cut away. With the Jihadism Action Plan, they have been stepped up in recent years. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to do so within the possibilities we have. We believe in that approach. We believe in this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u60	Where cooperation between the security services, i.e. the repressive hard side, and the people in the neighbourhood who know young people, is under pressure because there is insufficient budget, my question is as follows. Is this the time, where it is obvious that more money is needed, to get over the bridge and put the money where it belongs, namely in the neighborhoods and the neighbourhoods where Mr Samsom rightly speaks positively about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yeah, I'll have that question with the cabinet later. So in that respect, we hang out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr Samsom has a good ideological argument, if I may put it this way, which ultimately amounts to: and that is why social democracy is right, it is the areas that are lagging behind. But I do not know whether the Netherlands will really be pleased with an ideological debate on which ideological solution is the best. This is sometimes related to neighbourhoods, but there are also a lot of well-educated, even Dutch young people coming from broken families. There was just another example on TV from England: rich and educated, father walks away, child confused, goes to Syria and cuts off heads there. Of course, we can all name causes, but isn't it true that now that terror is among us and also comes from the neighborhoods, we need to fight that terror much more decisively, here but also there? How can the PvdA just say: leave them in Syria and let the French bomb them away? How is it that the PvdA doesn't want to give more money to the Defense Department and not give more money to the Justice Department, which the CDA does want with other parties? Will Mr Samsom give an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u63	This debate does not benefit from ideological conflicts, nor from caricatures of what we have said. I have not indicated at all that the approach in the neighbourhood is the only one. It is an element, but it is an important element that has been under pressure in recent years and I am glad that we can now see that it is indeed useful. But that also applies to all the other elements, for example the element you mention. More money to DOD? Oh, yeah. See the 2016 budget. More money to the Justice Department? Oh, yeah. Therefore, see also what the coalition parties said about it in the General Political Reviews. I am still eagerly waiting for the government's response to that point, but it takes little imagination to predict that something will happen in the coming period. I agree with you, there too an extra effort and sometimes an extra investment will be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'd like to see that. So far it's always been cutting and sticking agents that made previous cuts a little bit reduced. Remember that with the money now, the tip for Defense, the sale of our defense will continue. It's less fast, but it's still shrinking. I assume that the coalition will be more attentive to the opposition's wishes in this area. However, one question does not answer Mr Samsom. That is the question of how we approach the core of IS. In the end, ISIS is in Syria and ISIS cannot stay. I have the impression that we are constantly hearing this from the mouth of VVD spokesmen and that it is the PvdA that made it impossible and made it impossible for the cabinet to intervene in Syria a long time ago. Is the Labour Party ultimately prepared to replace any new counter-indication with the realization that it should: intervene in Syria if we want to get IS out of there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u65	First of all, according to Article 100 of state law, the cabinet has every right and reason to decide independently as regards the use of military resources elsewhere. It is not a political group that comes into play in advance, but only when it is. The Labour Party does have an opinion on it. Using military resources can never be the only way to combat ISIS in this case. This includes a political solution. That political solution, however shaky, is visible in the part in Iraq. By the way, the core of ISIS may be in Iraq by now. Anyway, that only shows how mobile it is. Syria's different. If we decide today that tomorrow there will be no more stone on the other state in Raqqa, we can carry it out in Syria tomorrow or tonight. And then what? For the solution to be found, we really need a political agreement made by the former enemies. They must become allies in the fight against ISIS. Fortunately, this is happening now, with extra urgency, in Vienna. Should that process lead to anything, even shaky but something, then you could indeed talk to each other about extending the military strategy. At the moment, that military strategy is already quite extensive. There are many reasons why terrorism has not yet been defeated. But lack of bombs is none of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u66	This is very strange and difficult to describe. On the one hand, you say that bombs are thrown, and you may agree with that, but you say one thing: we want to remain clean. I keep saying this can't be done. The Netherlands cannot, as I said just now in my speech, wave a flag on the Turkish border in the hope that the French will let their bombs hit their targets. A political solution with IS? IS not a political solution. ISIS has sent the attacks in Paris from there. The next attack will also be sent from Syria. If it is serious to us that we want to crush IS, the Netherlands must also draw the consequences. It's no different. Mr Samsom is now saying that it is not up to the PvdA that we do not bomb there. I wish it were true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u67	I am the last to have talked about a political solution with ISIS. What kind of bullshit is that? It is a political solution between all the other warring parties in Syria. That's complicated enough as it is. That's what Vienna is about. It's about an alliance against ISIS. In order to do so, former enemies or people who are drawn to each other's lives, sometimes even by force, must find each other in Vienna. Otherwise, the fight against ISIS will be doomed to failure. No matter how many bombs you throw on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u68	I share that it is an enormous complex whole. Let me come back to the comments about understaffing the police. I am glad that Mr Samsom is raising this issue, but, as he said, words alone are not enough, knowing that in the coming period there will be 2,000 more agents going off. What can we expect from the Labour Party, for example, next week in dealing with the justice budget, so that we can work together to get the police force in order and ensure that real investment is made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u69	First of all, let us see what the cabinet comes up with in response to the questions raised by the Chamber on the 2016 budget. The treatment of this is very soon. I hope there will be more opportunities in that. Otherwise, you can expect us to keep our priorities consistent as they were. That neighborhood agent, one district agent out of 5,000 inhabitants, is one of the most important benchmarks for us. If extra money is needed for this or if there is another way to move priorities, then that is our commitment. Not only with extra resources, but also with political choices. This is our choice. We see what is happening in those neighbourhoods and what is needed there. The district agent is not the only element in this, but it is a crucial element. So we are sticking to that commitment, to that demand, and we hope that it can be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u70	I understand that Mr Samsom wants to get away with this, but it has been a fact for a long time that there has been severe cuts and that the police themselves state that they are no longer capable of doing the job. That mayors say they don't make it to 5,000; that in training people can no longer be given what they need to deal with the problems of today. From the General Reviews it has already been widely supported by the entire opposition: this cannot be done. I hope that next week the Labour Party will come up with more than just a reference to letters from the cabinet and that it will not leave it with fine words but will also make them come true. What has become clear so far is that it is not going to come from the cabinet for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u71	That's just the question. The question is whether we come up with more than what the cabinet comes up with. Depends on what the cabinet comes up with. I expect that, as announced, for the consideration of the V and J budget. What that was promised, not only to the opposition but to the entire Chamber. I know this cabinet as the one who listens to it and wants to answer it. Let's see where the cabinet will be coming in the next few days, because I have to speak in days before the V and J budget comes in and let's discuss whether that sets the right priorities, for example in this fight that has to be fought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u72	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u73	That does not mean that we have yet to adopt our approach in the neighbourhood, because there are weaknesses in this approach as well. That's what the practice shows. Moreover, the development of extremism is taking on new forms. The fourth generation of extravagant travellers are now radicalised from zero to 100 in a few months. She is religiously almost illiterate, she is not inspired by ideas but by what ISIS symbolizes and by the free pass for violence that goes with it. That requires even more knowledge of what's going on in the heads of those boys and girls. From what takes place in the living rooms, which takes place on the street corners. It requires even earlier and more intrusive intervention if things are to go wrong. Even more investing in the community as a buffer against the loner. Is this possible with the resources earmarked for this purpose from the action plan? That's what I'm asking the cabinet. It also requires a different use of our legal capabilities. Young people who constantly talk about the need to use lethal force on the Internet fora and elsewhere simply encourage the use of violence. And that's a criminal offence. Many of these guys, and sometimes girls, are in the picture with the authorities. And yet, we're just going through a little bit. I'm asking the Minister of Justice if he'd like to discuss this with the state's attorney's office. Early prevention of terrorism requires the use of all means within the rule of law, including criminal law. The same applies to returners. Are we gonna do enough about that? That is my question to the cabinet. We continue to look for ways to keep these potentially very dangerous people off the streets, or to heal, within the limits of the rule of law, if possible. So we can do more to combat terrorism and prevent attacks. And we'll do more, wherever we need to. But the uncomfortable truth is also that 100% security does not exist. Our free, tolerant and pluralistic society is vulnerable. Despite all the efforts, a few lunatics may have escaped our attention. The men who drove from Molenbeek to Paris could also have driven north. Those are terrifying thoughts. You cannot deny that fear, but you can counter it: our self-confidence, the realization that our soft values of democracy, equality and freedom in all their vulnerability are also very strong, stronger than the hatred of extremists, stronger than the bullets of terrorists. That makes us determined, determined not to let us play apart, to live our lives as we wish, to be proud of who we are and not to turn an inch for terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u74	Madam President. Impressive was the compassion and the remorse in the past few days. You yourself mentioned how the commemoration at the French Embassy and in many other places in France itself the Marseillaise was sent in recent days, the French national anthem. Parliamentarians sang it spontaneously after the earlier attack on Charlie Hebdo. If you let the lyrics of that national anthem work on you, you can see that it is in fact very close to what is happening in Paris about atrocities: "They are approaching into your arms to cut down your sons and husbands." Horrible. It's exactly what ISIS is doing right now: hate instead of love, bloodlust instead of peace, tyranny instead of freedom. We are in the minds and prayers of the tried and tested people of France, and we sympathize with the families of the victims and those who are injured. This merciless terror against innocent citizens makes one thing clear: today Paris, tomorrow Berlin, the day after tomorrow, our country can also be targeted. In the Netherlands too, therefore, we must be extremely alert. The threat level is substantial for a reason. No, that is not a reason for panic measures, but an incentive to push ahead with all the measures announced. We are still waiting for the law on intelligence and security services to be amended, legislation on the taking of Dutch citizenship, the temporary law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. How's that going? Why is this slow? The SGP really wants to speed up. Our legislation needs to be up-to-date. This calls for constant review of the adequacy of the possibilities and powers. In the United Kingdom, I saw that legislation has been brought forward that requires communications apps to allow secret services to have access if it is necessary for security. That seems to us to be a wise idea. What is the Dutch Government going to do against encryption that secret services cannot access? Many countries outside Europe have already gained a great deal of experience in recent years in terms of security against imminent attacks. There are also countries that want to be a free country and not a police state. Think of a country like Israel, but also countries like Colombia. Do we benefit from the expertise from these countries and learn from their good experiences, risk analyses and security measures? At the same time, let us not forget that more safety begins close to home. In the interrupting debate with Mr Samsom, I already talked about the district agents, the eyes and ears in the capillaries of our society. I'm very impatient about this. If something has been in the law for so long, it is not a motion, it is not a wish, it is an amendment: it is just hard in the legal text: 1 out of 5 000 people I really wonder why that has not yet been achieved. When is this finally going to be in order? In addition, better border surveillance is necessary, at the external borders of the European Union but also at national borders. We support and support more intensive border surveillance and accurate control. Every effort must also be made to prevent the return of Syrians from endangering our security. All this also requires sufficient financial resources; sufficient money, for the police, security services, the Public Prosecutor's Office and Defence. We have already made several proposals to ensure the security of our country, including in the NATO context. Our appeal is therefore: stop political fickleness and invest firmly in our security. It is an intensive and, it seems, long struggle. Radical Islam is on the rise worldwide and also threatens our freedom. Resilience against radical Islam is needed. Young people in particular must be mentally armed against the extremist ideology of death, destruction and hatred. It is a spiritual struggle for the hearts and spirits, a fight against ruthless hatred, a fight against terror and tyranny. The Marseillaise says: to us is the bloody banner of tyranny lifted. Our own national anthem also speaks of "a fight against tyranny." That's in the sixth verse of the Wilhelmus. That begins with the confession: "My shield and the trusting are Thou, O God my Lord." In that power we can fight the battle. Therefore, heartfelt wisdom, action and God's blessings were prayed for in the fight against this modern tyranny that injures the hearts of the victims and their relatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. Friday night, like many people, I was watching TV until deep into the night. After that, I couldn't sleep. I couldn't lose the footage. I couldn't get away from the anger and the grief. How could you do something like that? The hell of the Bataclan Theatre. "Don't move, don't speak, just whisper. There's something happening, but don't be scared." Rules from just a song by The Eagles of Death Metal, the band in the theatre. It's words that a boy could have said gently to his girlfriend. They must have been so scared. I can't imagine. Still, we all do. We all imagine it: what if I had been in that theater, what if I had been on the terrace, what if I had been in the football station as a supporter? What if it was Amsterdam? Fearing is a natural reaction. However, we must resist this emotion. It's exactly what the terrorists are after. They're trying to scare us. They want to divide us. They want us to lose faith in each other. I sincerely thank the Prime Minister for his beautiful statement last Saturday. We are not going to let ourselves be separated, not in the Netherlands, not in Europe. Nice words. Let's split up? Who's with us and who's not? Who are we and who are they? That is what we are talking about today, as far as I am concerned. Sometimes answers to these questions can be simplistic. To the easy language of war there is the danger of becoming an echo of George W. Bush: those who are not for us are against us. And what did that bring us? In this case, it's simple. "We," that's all of us, and "she," that's only IS, a small group of twisted and sick minds. The question is how we stick together, here in NL and there in Syria. Let's start here. Terrorists grew up here in Paris, live in Brussels and could live in the Netherlands. It is young people who are radicalized, who want to belong to them and not to us. That's their choice, but it's also our problem. The delusions of IS do not apply to border controls. Closing boundaries, building walls; that is closing eyes to reality. Then what to do? We must ensure that we know them and prevent these young people from radicalising. If we do everything we can, I ask the Prime Minister. Do we have enough district agents and street coaches to act effectively when young people are threatening to slip? Yet, despite all efforts, young people will continue to leave for Syria. They will also come back, sometimes with dangerous ideas, sometimes traumatized. What do we do with them? If it is clear that they have done horrible things, then we will arrest them and they will be punished severely. But what if that's not the case? Then at best they are followed and watched, but is that enough? In Denmark, young people are included in deradicalisation programmes. Could we require this for anyone who returns from Syria or Iraq and cannot be dealt with in criminal law? Could that be a solution? What do the intelligence agencies know and what do they share? Is there enough European cooperation between national services to intervene on time if attacks are planned? And then there it is. That's a lot more complicated than that. "There" is Syria. Who's with who? The coalition that wants to defeat IS is large and diverse: from the United States to Saudi Arabia, from France to Jordan, from Canada to the United Arab Emirates. This is not a struggle of the West against the East, of our values against that of Islam. Whoever would define the fight against ISIS in this way makes us smaller and bigger. War language suggests that there are only military solutions. What does it mean that the Prime Minister says we're at war? Or is it words without meaning that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister do not take in their mouths? We all share the view that IS should be reported, but that cannot be without a political solution in Syria. That's what we need everyone in the region for. A glimmer of hope came from Vienna. There is talk of a political solution in Syria. Crucial is, what do we do about Assad? The enemy of our enemy is not our friend. Can the Prime Minister imagine that there will be a political solution for Syria in which Assad plays a role? "Who'll love the Devil? Who'll kiss his tongue?" Singing The Eagles of Death Metal. When it comes to Assad, nobody, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u76	I think that everyone in this house will dislike everything that Mr Assad has done; no one will justify it. But if a political solution requires peace in Syria, the cessation of all violence there, even of the pernicious Assad, shouldn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u77	A process towards free elections has been agreed in Vienna. If that is intended for Assad to leave Syria peacefully, with which we can gain stability and succeed in stopping IS, then I am in favour of it. Then I'm fine with Assad getting a little more time. When Mr Zijlstra talks about a structural solution in which Assad stays in place, let us not forget that this man still has 200,000 deaths on his conscience. At least he hasn't been in a deradicalisation program yet, which means he won't do it next time. So I do not see a structural solution in which Assad has a role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u78	We all agree that this man needs to leave. But we must also be realistic in our foreign policy, something that I have often argued for in the past. If the solution means that he is still there for some time, "some time" may also be "longer time" in politics, then we should not exclude that road in the opinion of the VVD. What we want to cause is the end of the war there, which makes Syria go back to something you might call a normal country, although that is always relative with a dictatorship. That should be the aim, including of GroenLinks. We share the values, but the solution should be paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u79	Maybe I can fly this from a different angle. I can't imagine bombing Assad. Then there is only one thing left: a political solution. We already see here, when it comes to smaller matters, how long political solutions will take, so I also see that this has not happened from today to tomorrow. That doesn't mean you have to put everything on hold in that whole process. At least I understand that we do not see a future for Syria with Assad in it. If we now go into a process in which he stays temporarily I cannot indicate the period; if I could but speak to us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u80	I shall now give the floor to Mr Kuzu, who has two and a half minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. Friday night we had our first DENK night. That was a meeting in a full Old Hall where the energy sprang from. There were people of different tastes, all together. Afterwards, we and our team were euphoric together. Then the news came out about the attacks in Paris. The euphoria collapsed like a plum pudding; it made way for horror and disgust. We are in mind with the victims, with everyone who has lost someone, in every place where the violence has struck: in Paris, in Beirut, in Sinai, in Ankara, in Baghdad. Because it doesn't matter on which continent an innocent human life is taken by an abomination by the bloodthirsty extremists of Daesh. Every human life is worth the same thing. The events represent a huge ordeal for our society. Do we choose polarization, fear and hatred as a society, or do we choose unity, courage, peace and freedom? I choose the latter. We choose an alliance for peace. We choose an alliance against terror, because this affects all of us. We're all going to concerts, we're all going to football games, and we're all going to restaurants. Fortunately, society also shows its strength. In many places in society, a minute's silence was held in a dignified manner. Month evening Muslims and non-Muslims were together for the Essalam Mosque in Rotterdam. They stood there to express their anger and sorrow, united and shoulder to shoulder. In Amsterdam, Muslims and Jews protested hand in hand against these atrocities and commemorated the victims. As our society shows its unity, I regret to say again today that there is division in this house. Mr Wilders is trying to set up groups against each other over the back of an attack. Mr Wilders himself is making our country unsafe. Mr Wilders is partly responsible for the problem. I'm not just saying that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr Kuzu, at the beginning of this debate you yourself called on your colleagues to refrain from certain qualifications. I would ask you not to address your colleagues directly in this way. We are not talking about your colleagues in this debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u83	I have made an appeal to discuss statements that undermine parliamentary democracy. This does not undermine parliamentary democracy. After all, I am not the only one saying this. The Mayor of The Hague also says this, as well as the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands last June. The actions of Mr Wilders abroad have put us at the forefront of terrorism. Unfortunately, this makes Mr Wilders a terrorist magnet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr Kuzu, I would ask you to try again to refrain from qualifications about your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u85	I'm rounding up. When I think of the people at the Essalam Mosque, the story becomes weaker and weaker. Society doesn't fall for that anymore. That's why I'm saying stop it. Enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. Friday night, the beginning of the weekend. A football stadium, a concert hall, five restaurants and cafes. The drama scene in Paris. Earlier this year an editor of a magazine and a supermarket. Paris, the city of love and freedom, once again hit in the heart. The heart of freedom. The liberté. People celebrating life, their daily lives on a typical Friday night. And Paris isn't on its own. We had Baghdad and Beirut, in the same 24 hours, and rather a Russian plane, a Tunisian beach and the Thalys from Amsterdam to Paris. It is a clear pattern: terrorism, not directed against a specific enemy, but merely intended to sow fear and hatred among ordinary people in a free world. It's been going on for a while. And it won't stop tomorrow. That is the reality. The Netherlands mourns shoulder to shoulder with the French. I agree with anyone who has strongly condemned this cowardly act of terror on many innocent people in recent days. This signal of unity and solidarity cannot sound strong enough. However, I am also uncomfortable in starting the debate here today. For what purpose are we standing here? Of course I have a lot of questions like everyone else. How did this happen? What did the security forces know? Would it have been better if we'd done more? It's the natural reflex, of me, of you, chairman, of everyone. Ask questions and look for answers. Grip trying to get on something that can't be understood. There are also big words in this debate. New measures are being requested. We're looking for the differences. Open borders or close borders? Are we at war or not? Is the cabinet doing too much or too little? I'm not comfortable with that. I told you, I feel discomfort. Discomfort towards next of kin. If we now announce new measures, we will also say: 'We have done too little so far, we have not been well prepared. This could perhaps have been avoided." This also causes inconvenience to the people at home: what expectations do we create with such a debate? That politics has the answer? That we could prevent individual lunatics, hiding behind faith or ideology, from committing attacks? I feel uncomfortable in the last few days when I turn on the television or open the newspapers: for hours the same images, page after page panic. Do we not talk to each other in that way, fear more than is necessary? What do I want to say here today? Let us remember, let us grieve, be one with the French in grief, but let us also remain calm and sober and preach realism. Don't let the terrorists control our lives... their purpose, their fear. I understand the powerlessness of people. I can feel it myself, but live your powerlessness. Keep living and keep working, not just, not like nothing happened, but keep living. I have often been asked over the past week: do you think it is a problem that the Prime Minister is in South Africa? No, I say here. I didn't find and I don't think that's a problem. On the contrary, it is exactly the right answer: to continue living, to continue with what you were planning. Of course, I am counting on the cabinet to do everything in its power, to have good contact with European partners and international allies, and to have police and security services vigilant, but do not expect me today to ask the cabinet or firm demands, wrapped in muscular words. I only wish the cabinet wisdom and strength, and I appeal to ourselves, to the media, to people at home and to society: let us defend our culture of freedom at all times against those who want to impose a culture of oppression. Let's defend by living.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, Europe was struck in the heart. The executioners of ISIS touched the Parisians in the most sensitive place, in everyday life, life in freedom, in the world in which we feel safe. This attack hit Paris, but it hits the whole world. The day before the attacks in Paris, the IS bombs exploded in Beirut, Lebanon. 43 people were killed. At the end of October, 224 people died in the Sinai, after a bomb crashed their plane. Paris mourns, Beirut mourns, and we mourn. Our thoughts go out to all the victims of terror and their next of kin. These attacks frighten people, because terror is getting closer and closer. And people expect a reaction from politics: that we do everything we can to ensure our security. We can and therefore need to do more to improve our security and resilience. We need to introduce stricter border controls if the threat makes this necessary and we need to invest in police and security services if our professionals indicate that this is necessary. Attacks are often known to the services. However, cooperation between services in Europe is still inadequate. Is the Prime Minister prepared to step up the political pressure to make services in Europe work better together? We know what we can do to tackle radicalisation, but resources are often inadequate. Our police officers are the eyes and ears of society, but understaffing is not seen radicalisation in many neighbourhoods and extremism is not heard. When does the cabinet come with clear and sufficient resources for the police and for the judiciary? People can radicalise for a lot of reasons. One of them is in the neighborhoods and neighborhoods that turn into parallel societies. There segregation rather than integration policy has become a policy, and unequal opportunities often result in poverty, discrimination and exclusion. Segregation is visible in the suburbs of Paris, but it is also visible in our country. Why is the cabinet still doing too little about that? Teachers, youth workers, police officers and neighbourhood coaches want to do more, but do not have enough guidance and time to recognise and tackle radicalisation. Is the Prime Minister prepared to acknowledge this and come forward with proposals quickly to improve this? In the debate after the horrible killings at Charlie Hebdo and in a Jewish supermarket, I told the story about Abdul, a 19-year-old boy from Maastricht. He was a simple boy who was captivated by the hate ideology of IS. He blew himself up in Baghdad and took more than twenty people with him in death. That's what radicalisation can do. It makes killing machines out of young people. I see it as our task to see how that can happen, how we can intervene in time and how we can prevent it. The SP has asked the cabinet many times to map the networks of jihadists and to indicate which Salafist organizations in our country may be involved in secret preaching about and organizing violence. I ask the Prime Minister again: is he prepared to draw up and publish a list of such organisations? You cannot separate the rise of IS from the circumstances under which these extremists have grasped their chance. You cannot separate yourself from how the illegal war in Iraq has promoted extremism and the emergence of IS, and how for many years minorities in Iraq are excluded and subordinated by the Iraqi Government. You can't separate it from the chaos created in Libya. Fifteen years of military intervention, without political solutions, has been counterproductive. IS needs to be addressed, but the SP does not believe that a bombing in an IS controlled area will reduce the risk of attacks in Europe. The logic makes you fear the opposite. A financial prohibition, on the other hand, will reduce the impact of IS. IS earns millions of euros in the sale of oil, which is smuggled through Turkey, among other things. Why isn't arms exports to this area getting harder? Now the US is selling 1.3 billion in arms to Saudi Arabia again. Rich Arabs from Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait can still transfer large sums of money to the extremists. It's the oxygen that keeps the terrorists going. As long as we don't cut it off, it never ends. How does the Prime Minister view that? I'm rounding up. Many people, of all kinds, have spoken out in the last few days. Between all the bad news, that's a hopeful message. We're not gonna let them break us up. Dutch, men, women, Muslims and non-Muslims show these days that our response to discord is "concord." I agree with the call to be alert to prevent the disruption of our society. The cowardice of terror will never defeat the resilience of free society!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u88	I call Mr Wassenberg, who has just been sworn in the day before yesterday. He's not making his maiden speech right now, because he gave it the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still feel dizzy that I may indeed stand here so soon after my swearing in. I hope it won't affect my story. The Party for Animals deeply sympathizes with the victims and survivors of the attacks in Paris. Ten months after the cowardly attack on Charlie Hebdo, Paris was once again struck by an attack. It's an attack that's devastating in its effect. Terrorism is terrifying, by definition, and has the sole purpose of inciting reasonless and desperate fear. Now reason must regain fear and anger. It is good to realize that much of what threatens us does not come from Syria, but from our own society and from the way in which we have organized society. A handful of radicalised young people appears to be able to shock the world with kalashnikovs and bomb vests. The main purpose of terrorists is to sow fear and confusion, thus disrupting society and then using this disruption to recruit new warriors. France's reaction, bombing places in banlieues directly to retribution in Syria where ISIS claims are suspected, is not the solution. The fact that perpetrators come from a particular region does not justify bombing that region in blind rage. In a society in which young people are derailed, radicalised and capable of anything, terrorism cannot be combated through ever-increasing repression. Taking away our freedoms is not going to give us more security. Look at America's response to the September 11 attacks: the Patriot Act. Experts say that the Patriot Act, which greatly curtailed the privacy of citizens, played terrorism before it fought. If the connective tissue of our society is affected, the cause will have to be removed. Symptom control is not the answer. We will have to find a solution to prevent ISIS, with an annual budget of EUR 3 billion, from getting a grip on young people without opportunities. We must prevent young people from radicalising. We will have to restore the connective tissue of our society and not replace it with a harness. Accessing more people and restricting more civil liberties threatens the security and freedom of all citizens. If we give up our privacy, we give up our freedom. And what does the exchange of millions of data yield? Lone wolves will find their way. Restricting civil rights creates, at most, false security and false security. We must remain true to the values we want to protect. The men who committed the attacks in Paris were known to the French intelligence services, who have more powers than the services in the Netherlands. The indignation about what has happened in France is entirely justified. The innocent deaths elsewhere in the world, such as in Beirut, are also deeply regrettable. ISIS must be combated. This is more effective by removing the financial base of this terrorist organisation than by bombs. I asked questions about this yesterday to the Foreign Minister. I would like to know from the Cabinet whether it is willing to actively build a society in which more than repression, solidarity and solidarity are the starting point, a society in which we learn to overcome our fears and cherish our freedom, a society in which young people do not derail but have perspective, and a society with respect for everyone's beliefs, on the basis that faith should always be allowed but never should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte finally said last week: we're at war. The jihadist attacks by ISIS in Paris are an attack on our way of life, an attack on our freedom. The world is shocked, but can't be surprised. The jihad strikes again and again in the West: in New York, in Madrid, in London and now again in Paris. To anyone who wonders whether such a jihadist attack can take place in the Netherlands, I say: it has already happened, more than ten years ago, when Theo van Gogh was slaughtered in Amsterdam by a jihadist. The link between all these horrible slaughters and the source from which they come cannot be denied: the jihad is part of Islam. However, our political elite looks away and dares not take the word 'Islamic' in its mouth. We have to protect ourselves from the jihad. I propose the following measures. One. Re-enter border controls. That is not just what we want; that is what 70% of the Dutch population want. Two. Close the borders for asylum seekers. There could be IS-jihadists in there. We only want shelter in our own region. Three. Invest heavily in our security, so in police, defense and intelligence. In the long run, we're gonna need at least 6 billion more. Four. We want the police, the military and also the military to be much more visible than they are today, including at stations, government buildings and Jewish institutions. They must also be armed much more heavily. Five. Enter administrative detention. Is the Cabinet prepared, like the US, the United Kingdom and Australia, to create the possibility of preemptive detention of jihadists? Six. Close all mosques calling for violence and take away organisations that invite preachers of violence, all tax advantages. In short, the cabinet must protect our country as much as possible, not hindered by any form of political correctness. We're at war. We must destroy ISIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u91	I give the floor to Mr Klein. He has one and a half minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. A debate like this can only be short and powerful. On behalf of my group, the independent and liberal group in this Chamber, I would like to begin by expressing my horror and condemnation of the terrorist attacks in Paris. Everyone in this Chamber has rightly supported similar words. But let's get on with it. What are we gonna do? I firmly believe that fear is the worst counselor. My group has confidence in the resilience of our society, with all the liberal and liberal values that go with it. We should not give up our freedoms by, for example, allowing more and more legal access to Internet thacking and eavesdropping and restricting the free movement of persons by closing the internal borders. My group is strongly opposed to this. We should never give in to it. Rambo-like war rhetoric also does not contribute to this peace. Fortunately, nothing of this is in the cabinet letter anymore. However, this letter gives good faith that this cabinet will take the right security measures with understanding and vigilance. These must be good preventive measures. Unfortunately, risks can never be ruled out. This does not include symbolism either, with the simple call to, for example, pump more money into the AIVD under the guise: with more money, it suddenly becomes safe. Finally, my group joins Arnon Grunberg in the Volkskrant this morning: terror is not a real threat to the West; it is hysterical politicians and citizens who are threatening the West and liberalism. And so it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u93	The cabinet needs about half an hour to prepare for the answer. I'd like to combine that with lunch. I propose that the rules of procedure should not be held until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with a number of questions raised, including those concerning security services, and with a number of international aspects. My suggestion would then be to give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice. He will address in detail all kinds of questions that have been asked, including on legislation, its progress and what is and is not possible under criminal law. He will also address the issues relating to our borders, the options that lie there and what we are already doing. My suggestion would then be to give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Deputy Prime Minister, who will address in particular all kinds of questions about integration and how our society handles it. He will also address the aspects of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. Tomorrow night's the weekend again. I think today's message and this week's message is that people should just keep making plans and that they should just keep doing their plans for the weekend. This week's central message is that fear cannot take us hostage. There's more of us. Over the last few days, and also in this debate, we have sought to express the feeling of bewilderment, the feeling of disgust at the terrible terrorist attack in Paris. Today we are talking mainly about measures. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of previous agreements? How can we ensure that we jointly protect our society from people who are trying to destroy our way of life in the most barbaric way possible? In every new attack on our society, of course, we always think about how we use our services, the police and the army. We are considering possibilities for detection and prosecution and international cooperation. Where necessary, we should always be prepared to update that approach, with all the opportunities offered by our rule of law. We took measures last weekend, last Saturday. We're gonna keep doing that. That is what we will always be looking for with the Chamber. Mr President, this is an introduction. I see that Mr Wilders wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u95	Let me start by saying that I agree with the Prime Minister that people should simply be able to live their lives and do the things they want to do on weekends. I do not have a millimeter difference of opinion with the Prime Minister. He knows that, too. But they must be able to do it safely. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about this, because I also addressed him in my speech. I can also go to the Minister of Justice, and I have a great deal of respect for him, but I would like an answer from the Prime Minister. People can only do their things safely on weekends if at least those dozens of returned Syrians, who have done the most barbaric act we can remember for a long time in Paris, I am sure that the Prime Minister will also be off the streets and arrested tomorrow. I just saw the message that the Belgian Prime Minister said in the Belgian Parliament: I am taking them in, because all those returned Syrians belong only in prison. He got applause for that. Can you say the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u96	We have a rule of law. This means that if there are any indications that people are a danger to our society, they will be arrested and locked up. If there is any doubt as to whether something might happen, they will be dealt with and locked up. Our legislation is very specific and very forceful in this respect. But there has to be those clues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u97	Nothing's gonna happen. How noncommittal can it be? How can the Prime Minister of all the Dutch, if it's okay, say: go do your things this weekend, go to that theater, go to that concert, go to that terrace? At the same time, he does nothing about the fact that dozens of returned Syrians can just walk on the streets, when after last week we all know what they can do. That's impossible, isn't it? May I point out to the Prime Minister an article from our Code of Criminal Law? Article 107a of the Code of Criminal Law states that Articles 101-107 of the Code of Criminal Law may apply in the event of an armed conflict which cannot be regarded as war, however, the Prime Minister spoke of war and in which the Netherlands is involved; that can also be through self-defense. Article 102 of the Code of Criminal Law, which can also be used outside a war, states that a person who provides aid to the enemy can be given life. They have helped the enemy, because they have been to Syria and the Prime Minister says that we are at war with it, so that is the enemy. So they can be arrested. Why isn't the Prime Minister using this article?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mr Wilders is trying to create a contradiction between him and me that is not there. I believe that we are saying the same thing, namely that it is of the utmost importance that we protect the Netherlands from elements which are opposed to our rule of law and which are a threat to our security. I hear Mr Wilders say that. We must take every opportunity to do so. But Mr Wilders will also confirm that we live in a rule of law. That means that cases must be demonstrable and provable. If there are any suspicions or if there is some ground that shows that people who have been active in Syria were therefore traveler and have returned are a danger to our society, then action is taking place. Mr Wilders is conducting the debate in the way he wants to. He's free to do that. But here he creates a contradiction that I don't see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u99	I'm just giving you a piece of law that applies here. The Prime Minister spoke of war. Prime Minister, do you remember? Last Saturday, you spoke of war. You said we're at war with ISIS. Well, there is an article in the Code of Criminal Law that some professors believe can even be used without a declaration of war and which can also be used according to the law, if someone in a case of conflict helps the enemy. That article just says that that person can be apprehended. Why don't you? Answer my question. It can't be true that it's quite non-binding that the Prime Minister calls on the Dutch to do everything this weekend, while he lets dozens of jihadists who have already been to Syria, just walk freely in the Netherlands. I'd tell people to think very carefully about what you're doing. Because this Prime Minister just lets people walk free, the terrorists who can do what they did in Paris in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr President, you know that Mr Wilders always manages to find superb stairs in debate and he succeeds again. I didn't think this was gonna work out. He's gonna succeed again, and that's his right. That is the way he conducts the debate. Again, I see no contradiction between Geert Wilders and the cabinet on this point. We use all the legal means at our disposal to ensure that we can put people at risk to our society. We agree on that. So let us not try to suggest a contradiction here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u101	The word "war" must be handled very carefully, because its use implies a completely different situation and suggests the situation without the word "war." Now the Prime Minister has used the word "war" on Saturday. He repeated that from South Africa: we are at war with IS, IS is our enemy. He just repeated it for the cameras, too. Mr Wilders spoke about it, but the Prime Minister did not repeat the floor. In fact, the Deputy Prime Minister said it wasn't his word. He doesn't use that word. Is the Prime Minister prepared to repeat here, if he thinks so, yes, we are at war with IS, IS is our enemy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u102	Yeah, I think so. I think that's because we're bombing there. We are fighting IS. We are not in the process of fighting against a state actor. We are in the process of combating an organization which is a major threat to our society. It was suggested that I didn't say that before. That was because I then responded to what Mr Wilders said: we are at war with Islam. We're not. That's what I said last Saturday. What we are doing there is neither against Islam nor against a country. We are fighting a barbaric organization there. We're gonna throw bombs over there. How much sharper do you want to see each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u103	The question is mine, but the Prime Minister's comment was. He's now saying, "I think so," but the question isn't whether the Prime Minister finds something like some sort of commentator. The question is whether the commander-in-chief, according to the Constitution, is not the prime minister, but the government, says, "we are at war." If Prime Minister Rutte says, "I, Mark Rutte, think so," that's okay, but he's got to do it somewhere else. But if so, I will ask the Deputy Prime Minister: are we at war, then I also want the answer: 'Yes, I said yesterday that it was not my word, but today it is my word'. In short, is this the word of the cabinet: "we are at war with IS, IS is our enemy"? Or is it Mr Rutte's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u104	It is the government's view, but that does not mean that we are at war with a country or with a state actor or that Article 96 of the Constitution applies here. I made a factual observation. In my opinion, everyone can see that this is the actual situation if, like the Netherlands, you are active in the coalition in Iraq and are fighting against ISIS. That is not a legal statement in accordance with the Constitution, because then you should be in conflict with a country and we are not there. We're in violation of an organization. It's not a new idea either. I've responded to that term before, because it was linked to Islam. I said at the time that we are not at war with that. We are opposed to a depraved barbaric organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u105	The Prime Minister must pay attention to that word. I get it, because we've been fighting Al-Qaeda and his predecessors for years. With retroactive effect, the Prime Minister now says that we have been at war with Serbia, which the Netherlands deliberately did not say at the time. We have bombed Kosovo. The then government, the legal predecessor of this government, constantly said: 'we are not at war with Serbia'. This Prime Minister says with retroactive effect that we have been at war. If we are at war with ISIS, and I am not talking about Article 96, one thing must be clear: a war does not end with a tie, it must be won. I've said that before. That means I expect the Prime Minister not to continue the sale of Defense, our mine hunters and howitzers, but to make sure that we can buy. That he is now saying, like the French, that we are going to spend more money for that. That is not what the coalition has come up with, because it does not even make up for the cuts. 1. More money for the DOD. 2. If the Prime Minister is serious and we are at war with ISIS, the ISIS cabinet should also fight in Syria, where the core is. Then the Prime Minister cannot stand aside and wave a flag in the hope that others will throw the bombs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u106	Unlike the former CDA Secretary of Defense who cut a billion dollars in Defence, the current VVD Minister is now making a substantial contribution to this. The cabinet has also said that if this proves to be necessary again in the future, we can look at the need for more when it comes to prioritising additional expenditure. We spend a lot of extra money on that. Once again, the current VVD Minister does so in contrast to the previous CDA Minister. Now to Mr Buma's other point: Syria. He believes that there is a difference of opinion in the cabinet. I understand his trauma of Balkenende IV and the conflicts over Uruzgan back then. That doesn't play here. I have held a number of detailed discussions in the cabinet with the ministers concerned, but also with the entire cabinet. There is no difference of opinion on the fact that there is no international technical objection to broadening the fight to Syria. It could be. We have noted, however, that a special situation has now arisen in Syria. I refer, for example, to Russia's presence in the conflict and the fact that none of the five NATO countries from Europe bombing Iraq are bombing in Syria in a coalition context. In addition, there is a need to know exactly what will happen in Syria if you do and what steps will be taken afterwards. I call for the Dutch contribution in Iraq not to be translated one-on-one into Syria. The circumstances there are very different. The cabinet said it doesn't rule out that we will. The letter to the Chamber mentions a number of criteria, including the question of Russia, but also the question of what happens to the places you bomb and how to prevent them from being taken over by other terrorist organisations. We have mentioned these aspects, but we have added that this does not mean that we are going to bomb if all these points are met or that we will not do so if all these points are not met. It's important things you have to consider. There is, of course, one very serious objection: Russia itself. Russia is now active there and was initially also strongly active on the western side of Syria against the opposition. It is now more active on the ISIS side of the conflict. That calls for complex deconfliction. I would point out once again that none of the European countries are now working in a coalition context. The French are doing a few things, but not in a coalition context. The impression was created that the coalition is very divided about it. That's really not true. The Netherlands would also be lagging behind. No, we're leading the way. Few countries are so active on the Iraqi side of the conflict. There are 26 European NATO members, 5 of whom are active on the Iraqi side of the conflict against ISIS. The Netherlands is one of the most active. So we really make a very fundamental contribution above our weight class, which is also highly appreciated, because our F16s can carry out the bombings with very high precision and a minimum of innocent civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u107	Then it remains that there is bombardment in Iraq and not where ISIS is the strongest. The Prime Minister has said to the Netherlands: 'That is why I think it is so essential that we are at war with IS. There are consequences. I understand that it is not legal, but it cannot mean that you say: it is so complicated in Syria; the French can do it and we can't. And about the defence budget: we can hardly afford to pay for the bombs in Iraq. Finally, I would like to say one thing. I believe that the Prime Minister is acting under his dignity when he says that a billion euros has been cut by a CDA minister and is now getting money from a VVD minister. That CDA minister operated in a cabinet led by Mark Rutte, the Prime Minister. If Prime Minister Rutte had said with his Prime Minister's capacities 'we are not doing this, I support the Minister of Defence', after all, the Minister of Defence would not have wanted to cut that billion at all...................................................................................................................................................................................................... This was a Prime Minister's you-bowl and he's just getting it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u108	That was a bit of a weak answer, but I suggest we leave that alone; that is better for everyone. Then there is the question of Syria. I really have to say that I do not fully agree with Mr Buma. The fact that we in the Netherlands believe that we must defeat ISIS and indeed ISIS is our enemy does not mean that you are a headless chicken... Mr Buma now shakes no. Then we agree, but he has been arguing for a long time to spread the conflict to Syria, despite all the arguments I mention to be cautious in it and to build such a decision step by step. We agree that there is no international objection. We also agree that the ISIS supply lines in Iraq run through Syria. So there's an argument to bomb. At the same time, I have mentioned a number of considerations. What happens after the conflict? There is no functioning state, such as Iraq, that can ask us to contribute to the Syrian side. We have great concerns about what post the conflict happens when we bomb there. Then what wrong elements are going to take over the case? That doesn't mean you're never gonna do it. That just means that you have to weigh that carefully. That is why there is no conflict in the coalition. We all say: it is conceivable, but let us take a step-by-step look at how the process is going in Vienna, whether there is a ground for it. The fact that we want to defeat ISIS doesn't mean that, regardless of any comments that may be made, we should automatically broaden this battle to Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr Buma would like to point out his nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u110	I still want to go into why it's not right. The minister says, like a headless chicken. Do the French do that like a headless chicken? Do the Americans do that like a headless chicken? Do the Arab countries do that like a headless chicken? No! They take responsibility under difficult circumstances. This cabinet takes step one and says: we are at war with ISIS and ISIS must be destroyed. But in step two, we would also take responsibility and show that we are willing to participate. We can talk about it long or short, but it stays talking and it needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u111	Once again, take Russia's presence in the conflict alone. It is just conceivable that, over the Syrian part of the conflict, because of a problem in communication, because the Russians have not so far been able to share all the information they are doing on the Syrian side, you can have a conflict between NATO aircraft and Russian aircraft. Those are big risks. I think it is perfectly logical, just to deal with that aspect, that you weigh it down and make sure that you are sure that there is a deconflict on it. I don't understand why it would be crazy to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u112	I found it an interesting interjection between Mr Buma and the Prime Minister on defence expenditure and on whether it was the fault of the VVD or the fault of the CDA that so much was cut in the defense. As an independent arbitrator, I can say that they both did it, that in opposition times they were always very opposed to cuts in Defence and that this was given up in coalition times. As a SGP member, I am pleased that there has never been an SGP Minister in history who has cut back on this important area. I do have the next serious question that relates to this. We see a huge wave movement in the Defense Department: first huge cuts and then there has to be money again and for Security and Justice is actually exactly the same story, with a lot of capital destruction and loss of expertise. How is it now ensured that the urgency that is now felt by everyone is also maintained in the coming time and we are not going to make the same mistakes again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u113	That is a justified appeal from Mr Van der Staaij. He is also right in his analysis of the political decision-making and the clean hands his party has in there. So it's a fair call. I think we have to check with each other, including the events that are taking place now, how important it is that we have a strong military force and justice. We are also working on this with each other with broad support in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u114	As far as the programme of measures against terrorism is concerned, it seems to me that I am referring to the Prime Minister in his responsibility for the fact that, although a lot of measures are being taken, it is still a little slow or long and therefore does not get along. Take the point of the returned Syrians. There has been an investigation into it and we are now receiving another letter from the cabinet: no, it is too difficult and too complicated to get criminalized and wait for the Administrative Measures Act. That law has also been announced for a long time. How is this urgency really felt and how is that ambition kept in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr Van der Steur will discuss this with you later and will show that we are on schedule for all these legislative proposals. I would also like to speed them up, but it is not the case that we are losing time in relation to the debate we had with each other in January/February. Then we said that a number of things had to happen. That was also the subject of communication with the Chamber. All these legislative proposals are now exactly where they should be. Again, we could say that it must be faster, but there has been no delay since January/February. Mr Van der Steur will prove that in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u116	Now that everyone is reviewing their own defence policy, it should be noted that the Christian Union has indeed delivered a Minister of Defence...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u117	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u118	... and that there was no cuts at the time, but quite aside. If the Prime Minister says that we are at war, that we are fighting against ISIS, if necessary by military means, which we must win, then it is true that there must be boots on the ground. And in this case the Kurds are among others. There is a broad alliance of not only Kurds but also other fighting groups that also fight against ISIS in Syria. Why are this cabinet and allies so reluctant to support and facilitate the struggle of those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u119	I would also like to address the question raised by Mr Segers in his first term of office about regional involvement. I would also like to say here, as we are so opposed to each other for the first time, that I am looking forward to the debates with Mr Segers in his new position, with which I also warmly congratulate him. Regional involvement has been a spearhead from the beginning of the conflict. This is also emphasised in all coalition meetings and bilateral contacts. The Netherlands is, of course, also active in the anti-ISIS coalition. In doing so, we support the Iraqi and Kurdish armed forces with air support for training. A progress report has also been sent to the Chamber on the fight against ISIS, in which we announced that we would make additional training equipment available in both Erbil and Baghdad. We also call for coordination of international support for Iraq and Syria. In addition, we always look at the needs on the ground. We do so in a coalition context, but also on the basis of the experiences of our military. After all, we are training and training, so we know a few things about it. In the political process, to which Mr Segers also referred in his speech, we have unfortunately seen little progress in Syria in five years. The Vienna process seems to be moving for the first time, also because at last all the countries involved in the conflict are at the table together. That does not mean that there is a complete political strategy, but there is now reason to be a little more optimistic, with all the realism that goes with it. There will be a great deal to be done, and I can see that Mr Klaver is coming forward. In his direction, I would say that his summary of Assad's position might also help Mr Segers, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, was exactly the right one. In a transition phase, we must assume that Syria's state institutions will be maintained, but after a transition phase, exactly how long it lasts, we cannot draw together here exactly. In the view of the Dutch government, there would be no place for Assad. During the transition phase, however, it is quite conceivable, as Mr Klaver also said, that the Dutch cabinet position has room for the current dictator to play another role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u120	With a broad arm gesture, we're going through the whole region, but we're not talking about the region I was talking about. In the North of Syria there is a multitude of soldiers, to people who are willing to fight against ISIS and to make progress towards Raqqa, but they do not have the means to do so. I am not talking about Erbil and not about northern Iraq, but about Syria. I'm not talking about training, because with training, you're not gonna win that war. You really need guns. Why are we so reluctant to support people who are at risk for their own lives fighting for their villages and their cities? Why are we so reluctant to support that coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u121	I don't think we are. I would just like to point out that the Dutch cabinet has to look at this issue in a coalition context. It is precisely in the coalition that we are calling for this international support to be coordinated. That is across the board, both on the Syrian side and on the Iraqi side, with which, of course, Mr Segers has a point to make of all the positive forces that want to contribute to it. So if he's with me for restraint, that's certainly not my intention. I do not see this as a bilateral role for the Netherlands. I see it mainly as our role to draw attention to this in a coalition context, as we are already actively doing a great deal in the battle, both by bombing over the Iraqi part of ISIS and by training soldiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u122	I would point out the difference between what we are doing in northern Iraq, which is indeed more, and what we are doing in Syria, namely nothing at all. Where there are so many people who want to fight against ISIS, my compelling appeal would be to look at it again, of course in a coalition context. I am not talking about a bilateral appeal, but I really mean looking at what we can do in a coalition to support the people there, who are indeed so bravely fighting against this danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u123	I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u124	The Prime Minister mentioned that we are at war. What is the political and legal significance of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u125	It's a factual observation. If you bomb, as we do, and train people, that's a factual finding. That's not a legal verdict. I outlined this just now in the debate with Mr Buma. This is not about Article 96 of the Constitution. Nor are we at odds with a state actor. I believe that every human being will recognize that there is a war situation here, as I have outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u126	So what are the political consequences? It has a legal meaning? What is the political significance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u127	That we continue this fight and look very seriously at what could possibly be a contribution to the Syrian side. I have just explained in detail to Mr Buma what reasons we have for not deciding at the moment to become active on the Syrian side, that we have a number of serious concerns about the effects that this would have. This means that we will also continue to train military personnel. This isn't new either, it's been as long as we've been at it. Since the cabinet decided at the end of September last year to contribute to the fight against ISIS also through F-16s over the Iraqi part. I think the confusion arose because I once got the question at Buitenhof about Geert Wilders' statement about the war against Islam. Then I said that we are not at war with Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u128	I come to this because the Deputy Prime Minister did not repeat the words "we are at war." I think that's right. I think you should be careful with that, because words have meaning, as we have said so many times in this debate. When you speak in war language and say "we are at war," it seems as if there are only military means left to get out of trouble. Is this not the right time, in this difficult time, for the cabinet to speak with one voice? Either we're at war or we're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u129	The Cabinet agrees. And it was a factual observation. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr. Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u131	We will also ask the Deputy Prime Minister if he also says that we are at war.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u132	Like every time I'm here, I always appreciate that, there are a lot of questions that I would have liked to answer, which have been asked again and answered in the event of interruption. There's a few left. Firstly, the question of the international cooperation of our intelligence services. It is, of course, taking place at European level. There is more and faster exchange of data than ever. The intelligence and security services are also all very willing to exchange data, especially on the terrorist case. There have also been actions by the intelligence community due to the seriousness of the threat in recent times. Of course, I cannot say everything about this in public. The AIVD is a member of the Counter Terrorist Group (CTG), to which all EU Member States are affiliated. In the first half of next year, the AIVD will chair that CTG and will also use that role to do everything in its power to maintain this high level and, where possible, strengthen it even further. This includes the harmonisation of criteria on the basis of which people are listed. That is an important point in this cooperation. Finally, I can inform you that next week the Minister will, on my behalf, give further written information to the Chamber on cooperation within the European Union and between the Member States in the field of counter-terrorism. Then the question was what do we do in the Netherlands when registering people who enter. May I refer briefly to the letter sent to the Chamber the day before yesterday? We have outlined all the measures taken by the Cabinet to ensure that the control of refugees entering the Netherlands and the elimination of backlogs in this area is put in place. Further requests were made for reinforcement of the safety chain. We took decisions on this earlier this year. These include additional police observation teams, expertise on radicalisation at the AIVD, observation capacity, incident follow-up and additional counter-terrorism teams, including technical resources. STUDY involves additional staff for the acquisition, processing and analysis of information and necessary specialist support. The KMAR and the Special Intervention Service are concerned with increased capacity for monitoring and securing objects and increasing the rapidly available intervention capacity. In this light, Mr Van der Staaij also asked about the draft law on intelligence and security services. That's about, among other things, cable-bound interception. I assume that is what Mr Van der Staaij was referring to. He nods yes. That draft legislative proposal was put into internet consulation in July and August. There has been a very wide-ranging response to this. At present, all these reactions are incorporated in the legislative proposal, especially in the explanatory memorandum. We do that carefully. After that, we are planning to table this bill as soon as possible. Then we have been asked about the reports on Schengen. I can say that our first priority on the refugee issue is now to ensure that agreements are reached with Turkey. A summit is planned at the end of November between the Turks and Europe, probably on, as it now looks, Sunday 29 November. There, the Turkish leadership and the members of the European Council will discuss the strengthening of cooperation and also the best use of the 3 billion that Europe makes available over the period 2016-2017. That's 3 billion for those two years together, not a year. We have talked about this before. In the case of the Netherlands, we immediately said yes to this, because we believe that the reception of people in the region and the strengthening and improvement of that reception are the only way to arrive at a structural solution to the problem of aliens for the shorter term, but certainly for the longer term. In addition, of course, what is happening in Greece is important: building a hotspot and sufficient reception capacity. These are two important elements that should ultimately reduce the flow of people across the Western Balkans. Besides, you always think. If that does not happen, if it does not succeed enough, what are the alternatives? I'm not going to go into that in detail right now. Every government, of course, always thinks about what the best follow-up steps are, including with allies. That's not something you need to do in public, it's what's best for confidentiality. They are also what-ifs, because, of course, we would prefer to see the flow of asylum within the existing system now operating. That is why in the next two weeks everything will be focused on agreements with Turkey and the creation of a proper lockdown of Europe vis-à-vis the outside world in Greece, including the development of that hotspot and its reception capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thank you for this explanation. External border control still raises the question of whether Europe should do so or whether the countries can do so. I've talked to the Prime Minister about it before. Can it be European? Is it bad if we have to transfer sovereignty for that? What's the status of that? What is the state of play in the debate on European border control?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u134	There is broad support for this to be regulated intergovernmentally or, if necessary, at Community level. I told Mr Buma earlier that it was completely out of the discussion. Does it have to do with the s-word? Does it have anything to do with the transfer of sovereignty? Here: what works? It is crucial that these external borders are properly protected, that they work properly. I refer to the debate we have had on this subject. I think we agree: we are looking for pragmatic solutions rather than complicated ideological debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u135	I have a question for you and the Prime Minister. We are having a debate in response to the attacks in Paris, and now I have the feeling that we are having a debate on the flow of refugees. I will not deny that, of course, someone can always sit in the middle, but I believe that the vast majority of refugees are on the run from attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u136	That is true, but there is, of course, concern about people or potential terrorists among the refugees. I referred to the letter we sent on that last Tuesday. We are taking additional measures to be able to screen, test, or be as sure as possible, where the numbers are currently large. In order not to prolong the debate by reading parts of a letter sent the day before yesterday, I referred to it. In that context, it came up here. That also seems relevant to me. In addition, a few questions have been asked about the external borders, but I am now through them. I think I have dealt with all the questions on refugee policy and come back to two specific questions concerning the situation in Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u137	It might live with people, and that's why it's wise to separate it properly. Of course, there could be someone in between, but that can also be done on any plane from any country in the Middle East. It's always possible. In fact, it could just come from our suburbs. If we are to have a debate on the drama in Paris, I think it is important that we do not confuse it with another very topical issue, namely the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u138	I agree with that, but at the same time I think it is justified to go into this, heard the rumors that one of the Paris attackers might have traveled with refugees. None of this has yet been confirmed; we all have to wait and see. If there is any concern, I should like to comment on that. That doesn't mean we have to separate a few things properly. There is the flow of refugees, and that is, in principle, completely separate from this. Nevertheless, of course, we are looking very closely at it. We must separate that from Islam and from the idea that terrorism is Islam. I have said it before: the jihadists abuse Islam for their purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u139	For the SGP, this flow of migrants is, quite frankly, an important part of this debate and of the measures taken by the Cabinet. There is no or insufficient control and registration on this flow of migrants. That's just a big security risk. That is why I think it is very important for the cabinet to say that it is going to work on better identification and registration, but is there any indication that this will be possible in the short term? Previously, the capacity problem was complicated and difficult. Can you do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u140	Yes, we stepped up on that. All the measures are in the letter. I can mention them again, but for the sake of short, I refer to them. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u141	I've seen these measures. There was a plan of action to improve this. More is now being done, such as baggage checks and all these points. There was a delay. It didn't happen enough. My question is: is there sufficient capacity, given the large numbers, to have that in order in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u142	Yeah, the police are gonna speed up the identification in the asylum procedure. The measures shall be introduced immediately and shall include the inclusion of clothing and luggage examination in the ID investigation. If there's a reason, the police will hear the stranger immediately. The police also have the possibility to read data carriers, such as telephones, if deemed necessary. In addition, the existing instruments have been strengthened: for example, the Marechaussee document investigation. They are also linked to the person employed. That's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u143	I read that. It's a good thing that happens. I support that, but my question is: is that going to lead to no major security risks in the short term? Are these measures going to have a rapid effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u144	That is the intention, but as with everything we do to combat extremism and terrorism, there is never an absolute guarantee that anyone could ever slip through it. There is, however, an absolute guarantee that we will do everything we can to prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u145	We see that the cabinet is going to act on this. That is very good, because at the moment there are 14,000 people walking through the Netherlands who we do not know about. That must be resolved immediately. I also asked the cabinet a question about this: how do we deal with these people? If we do a safety check at the beginning of the procedure, someone can, of course, slip through there; we all understand that, then people will have the freedom to walk through the country. But what do we do with the people who didn't do that check? Does the government share the VVD's view that you should not let these people walk through the Netherlands in complete freedom, because it has not yet been established that there is a security risk? Only when this has been established as part of the intake procedure will the freedom of movement in the Netherlands be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u146	That is a complicated question, but I can give you a clear answer. If people have not yet entered through Schiphol and identification and screening, then it is possible and even common to apply border detention. That is not possible if an asylum seeker has already been given access to the Schengen area and, for example, applies for asylum in Ter Apel. That person would have moved freely in the Schengen area even before he had registered in Ter Apel. For that reason, you cannot legally impose a restriction on freedom. But we are now strengthening control over who enters the Netherlands to make sure that there are no potential terrorists among these people. If there are individual indications of public-order risks, it is possible to immediately restrict the freedom of asylum seekers. Then foreign detention is also possible. This means that in doubt people are not overtaken; then people are imprisoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u147	I very much agree with that, but we note that this is in the case of individual testing. That's good. That is the way it should be, but there are people with whom this review has not taken place. The Schengen Convention is obviously the basis for our failure to do so. Schengen is not working at the moment. Countries around us let them walk through and then they're at our border. Then we say: because of that treaty we let these people walk free. No, you'll have to separate those people too. Then you must also impose protective measures on them, because we must first determine individually whether there is a security risk. It is only when Schengen functions that you can return to the order of the day. For let us be honest: Schengen is not working! They're just gonna keep moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u148	People are entering the Schengen area at Schiphol. My point is not that Schengen would be a legal obstacle here either. I fully agree with Mr Zijlstra that the Schengen rules are not being complied with in perfection at the moment either, on the contrary, but they are people who volunteer. They're reporting to Ter Apel. The cabinet is now speeding up the process of establishing whether there are any wrong elements among them. That is exactly what I said to Mr Van der Staaij. If so, there is no doubt that there will be no catching up; in that case the people will be imprisoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u149	That is what we agree on. Perhaps we can also take the final step, so that it can no longer happen that this check is not done because of crowds and people can still move around the country in complete freedom. First that check and then move completely free. If that is the new policy, we are very much in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u150	I will have my answer aligned just a little more precisely in time for the second term. My information is that as soon as people sign up, they will be immediately checked whether they may pose a risk to national security and whether their identity is correct. If there is doubt, there will be no catch-up and the people will be imprisoned. I would just like to ask whether there is the risk of a time rag at this point. I understand that Mr Zijlstra is looking for that. We'll check it out. I have one more question to answer. As far as Salafism is concerned, we are doing the same thing as the German armed forces, which are testing individuals. One of the reasons for this is that salafism has many currents. We have read reports on this, including the joint publication of AIVD and NCTV "Salafism in the Netherlands; diversity and dynamism." Very annoying is that the people do have the party card of CDA or PvdA, but not that of the association of Salafists. It is therefore not easy to determine. We are therefore looking at behavior. If people show certain behaviors, stir up intolerance or actively oppose integration, they will not be allowed into the Defense Department. That is exactly the line that Germany also follows. For my part, I think I have answered all the questions, but it is always Mr Roemer who has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u151	Then I guess the Prime Minister always skips my question. Otherwise, I won't walk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u152	I have looked at you so many times, Mr Roemer, and tried to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u153	In my question, I deliberately asked whether the Prime Minister could respond to it; he could not have escaped that. I asked about the financial flows and the draining of the ISIS area. I can't believe there's 3 billion in that area every year. My question to the Prime Minister is how he sees it and what his role is, especially as President. How can we at last prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u154	I will come back to that in the second term. I have that answer for 50% to 60% in my head, but I want it to be absolutely correct, so I should like to have a little more official advice so that I can be very precise in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u155	Then you start with this answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u156	Deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u157	I have a question I may have to ask the Minister of Security and Justice, but I'm still trying. This question concerns the discussions on a possible smaller Schengen area. So this matter is not on the table with the Heads of Government, but with the Ministers of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u158	I just answered that question in detail. In the next few weeks, we will first devote all our energy to reaching agreements with the Turks and the Greeks on stopping the flow of refugees to Europe and a much better border control in Greece. The Netherlands is very much involved in this and is also willing to invest heavily in it, including financially. We are prepared to help the Greeks, including financial and logistics, in developing hotspots and reception capacity. In addition, what ifs is always looked at. However, I am not going to comment on what is now being published in the media. Of course, there is always the risk of "what if" discussions leaking out. If I am going to say that it is true, that it is not true or that it is only on parts, I am not helping the European debate that is taking place behind the scenes about what ifs. I just answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u159	That is indeed very much behind the scenes. I fully understand that this kind of thing is happening behind the scenes, but it is a direction that offers a serious opportunity and should therefore be investigated. The CDA believes that we should talk about how we can or should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u160	I would not be in favour of that, because I think we should first ensure that the main route succeeds. We want to work very hard on this in the coming weeks. The Valletta Summit and the subsequent informal European Council are aimed at this, particularly the supplementary European Council on the agreements with the Turks and the Greeks. We are now devoting all our energy to this. Of course, we always think about alternatives when it turns out that it doesn't work and the influx continues at this level. That is constantly being looked at, but we do not want to respond to it in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u161	Thank you for your answers. I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mr. Chairman. First of all, in a general sense, I would like to say something about the legislative programme resulting from the action programme to combat jihadism. Then I will give a brief look at the current figures. Then I will deal with the theme of the returners in a general sense. I shall then turn to the questions. With regard to the legislative proposals arising from the action programme, the good news is that they are exactly on the schedule agreed with the Chamber, as the Prime Minister said following an interruption. That does not mean that I do not share the Prime Minister's remark that I too could and should have done so more quickly. We will do everything in our power to do so, bearing in mind Mr Buma's appeal, who said: if they are then submitted to the House of Representatives, can they be dealt with as a matter of urgency? For our part, we can do that; I therefore hope that the Lower House and the Upper House will experience the same need for urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u163	That's a fair point. I took a look at it. The legislative proposals are procedural with the Chambers, but at that stage the Chamber produced its report. The Chamber awaits the answer of the department. So we're gonna have to do it faster. Nothing has yet happened with the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism, which has not yet gone to the Chamber. The Computer Crime Act III has been suspended in the consultation round for two years. It is right that the Minister should say that the Chamber should do its job, but the reason why I brought it up is that further consultation by us shows that the laws are indeed with the Department, at least not on this side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u164	I didn't say that. I will complete the list for Mr Buma. On 28 October the Council of State delivered an opinion on the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. That law provides for the so-called exit ban, the area ban and the reporting obligation for jihadists. I expect to be able to submit that bill to the Chamber in December. The Council of State delivered its opinion on the Passport Act on 13 November. This law is linked to the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism, which makes it possible to withdraw the identity card. The passport measure is pending, but the identity card measure is not yet in place; it is linked to that law and I expect to be able to submit it to the Chamber in December. On 17 November, the Council of State issued its opinion on the amendment of the Dutch National Security Act. That bill sees the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship by the Minister of Security and Justice as important for the safety of the Netherlands. I expect to be able to submit this law to the Chamber in December. The proposal for the Computer Crime Act III, to which Mr Buma referred, is a complicated bill, which regulates many topics, including the notice and take down of websites with a jihadist basis. This bill will also be submitted to the Chamber in the autumn, i.e. before the end of this year. I note that there is also the proposal for the Act on explosives precursors, which deals with the prohibition or regulation of explosives raw materials. That bill is in the Lower House. In the very short term, the Court can expect the Government's answers to the questions of the Chamber. The Chamber also knows that my colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst very recently submitted the so-called Rotterdam Act to the House of Representatives. It also contains a number of provisions to combat jihadism. Finally, I can inform the Chamber that the Football Act, which also applies to possible extremists in our country, has now arrived through the First Chamber. I come to the measures that have been taken over the past period. I'll start with passport measures. At my request, which was my request to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, 170 passports have been issued for revocation since December 2013. Of 27 persons, financial assets have been frozen under the Terrorist Sanction Scheme 2007-II. Of all the well-known jihadgoers who received social benefits, that benefit has now been discontinued. The study funding of all known jihad fighters has been or will be discontinued through the Inspectie SZW. In the period from 2013 to 24 June 2015, 58 unique jihadist-related child affairs were investigated at the Children's Protection Board. These included 37 family children and 21 individual, minor potential travellers. More than 80 criminal investigations into violent, jihad-related cases are currently ongoing in the Netherlands. In total, these are 110 people. No one in the Chamber will have noticed that there is currently a major criminal case, the so-called Context case. Eight people have been detained in the terrorism department. At least 220 people from the Netherlands have travelled to Syria. Of them about 140 remain in Syria; about 40 have returned. I will come back to that in a moment, but it is important to realise that this has only been five in the past year. The number of returners has fallen dramatically in the past year. There are all kinds of reasons for this that we do not know. We do know that 42 people have been killed by now. It is assumed that between 3,000 and 5,000 warriors have travelled from Europe to Syria or Iraq. Many questions have been asked by the members of your Chamber about what happens when someone leaves and then returns. Let me start with the first element. At the time a known traveller is identified, a file is opened immediately and file building is done. This consists of intelligence investigations and police investigations, but the informal network is also being looked at. This investigation is carried out by the services and, of course, by the police, but also in close cooperation with the relevant municipalities. Where necessary, a passport measure shall be taken. The person concerned is placed on the national survey, the list of persons of the National Police. If necessary, there shall be an international alert in the so-called SIS2 system by the National Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Services. There will be a criminal investigation if necessary. If necessary, a conviction may also be made in absentia. The task for this is with the Public Prosecutor's Office. Financial measures are being taken: the so-called freezing measure and the cessation of payments that I have just mentioned. The data subject is also written out of the Basic Registration Persons. The responsibility for this lies with the municipalities. Then the question was asked what we do to prevent someone from returning. If applicable, such a person shall be declared an undesirable stranger or, once the law has been passed, the Netherlands shall be withdrawn in order to protect national security. It's based on the law I just mentioned. Let me now turn to the question of what happens if we get the suspicion that someone wants to return. Of course, an investigation is again being carried out; information is being exchanged. Within the postal network, the information available on the person concerned shall be examined. An international alert will be issued. The entry ban will apply, if possible on the basis of foreign law. And of course the municipalities look again at the informal network around the person concerned. When the person concerned arrives in the Netherlands, there will be an immediate stand for questioning by the National Police. If necessary, and if there is any indication, there will be a criminal investigation. As the Prime Minister has just said, the person concerned will be taken into remand if there are reasons to believe that he has committed crimes. Of course, therefore, a risk assessment and a threat assessment are made. So the whole approach of a potential returner is personal. Criminal prosecution is possible, detention will take place in the terrorism department, after conviction there will be probation surveillance, child protection measures can be taken if necessary and a forensic ggz pathway may be launched. One of the points of the action programme that has recently entered into force is the so-called exit route, where the person concerned is actively accompanied by de-radicalisation. Mr Klaver asked a question about this. Furthermore, there are facilities aimed at supporting the family. All this, this whole list, takes place because we realize, as Mr Wilders stressed in his first term, that a returner from a country such as Syria or Iraq, who has been active in one of the fighting groups there, can be a potential risk to our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u165	That is precisely why I asked the same question on behalf of the Labour Party. It is clear that the last generation of extravagant travellers and thus also the returners, although there are far fewer people with a more dangerous profile. We are told by those concerned that they find it frustrating that detention and pre-trial detention are taking place, but that after that there are no means of imposing a measure that effectively guarantees the security of the rest of the country. Does the Minister have that impression? If so, should we not look together for ways of making such a measure possible? Then perhaps someone will not be deprived of freedom by going to prison, but may end up in clinics or elsewhere, so that they do not walk freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u166	With the ggz trajectory I just mentioned, that's possible. By the way, there are also a number of legislative proposals in both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber to facilitate compulsory inclusion. This could also apply in this case. If there are measures that we do not yet apply, then the government is always prepared to consider their application. That goes without saying. That's what we do after an attack like this. Every time we test what we've put on our feet. Are the possibilities we have sufficient to give the right answer? I shall say to Mr Samsom: 'I repeat his words on this matter,' and say that we will always be looking within the limits of the rule of law. On the basis of the ECHR and on the basis of the Constitution, we have the system that people should not be deprived of their freedom without the use of a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u167	I fully agree with you. However, I would like to avoid the impression that the rule of law would be weak. This impression is sometimes unintentional in this kind of debate. The rule of law is very strong, provided that we want and dare to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the rule of law. In such cases, you should also dare to look for those possibilities. I'm glad we can do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u168	I would like to accept that invitation from Mr Samsom. The government is always willing to seek opportunities within the limits of the rule of law. I agree with Mr Samsom that the rule of law is sometimes put forward very quickly as an argument: 'Oh, that is contrary to the rule of law!' However, very often, if you look carefully at where the boundaries lie, you can use more possibilities than you initially thought possible. Especially in these specific circumstances, you can always balance the threats to the rule of law by terrorists and jihadists on the one hand and the protection of the rule of law on the other. As a government, we will gladly do so with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u169	The Minister also mentioned the deradicalisation plan and the possibilities already available in the current programmes. In my contribution I specifically mentioned that sometimes you might want to use a little more compulsion to get these people into such a program. What possibilities does the Minister see for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u170	That is a good point from Mr Klaver. I also referred to him because he had explicitly raised that point. We have the system in the Netherlands that we cannot force anyone to participate in anything unless there is a legal basis. There is no such legal basis for a deradicalisation programme. I can say something about the practice. I talk about it regularly with colleagues, but also with experts. Moreover, Mr Asscher does the same, because it is perhaps also a question that he should answer. Anyway, I started with the answer. I hope he doesn't blame me for giving him an answer. Experience has shown that forced deradicalisation has little effect if one does not want to. That is why we have agreed with each other that we are offering deradicalisation programmes and that we are making them a success based on the information and the knowledge and skills we have acquired with each other. However, we do not have the option of making this compulsory. There is, however, that possibility after a criminal conviction. Then you can impose such a measure as a condition for, for example, conditional release.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u171	It's a bit of an interruption of mine, because I'm really worried about the 'intermediate world' that's emerging, about the people who are sitting between people who come back and want to be part of such a program, and about people who end up in the criminal justice chain, that is, about everyone who falls apart. My question is: how can you catch those returners by the collar?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u172	We also need to be realistic. Mr Samsom already referred to it: if people return now, after years of activity in these areas, there is a very low chance that there will be no criminal indication. I assume that for the Syrians who are still returning, there is generally sufficient indication to go on the criminal journey. Then we will also have enough room to impose a deradicalisation programme as a measure after a criminal conviction. However, I am happy to continue to look at other ways of increasing our effectiveness in the debates we regularly have with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr Roemer on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u174	Yesterday in the Home Affairs budget, my colleague also raised this point. He asked for an examination of the extent to which this would be preventative by means of an ex post judicial review. We know that in other cases, too. If a person is a danger to himself or the environment, preventive action can be taken. Can the Minister investigate the possibilities by this means, including, of course, a judicial test after it? Such a test is very important; I share that with the Minister. Is this a viable way? Would he like to let the Chamber know that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u175	Of course. As I have just said, it is in our policy that every time we see opportunities for a new, possibly effective measure, we should examine that measure. I would be happy to examine this in the light of the comments that have been made. I will also take into account the question of whether there is any way in which we can prevent returners from being detained or put into administrative detention. I say this to Mr Wilders and Mr Buma. I think it's okay if I take that point with me in the same letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u176	After this kind of terrible attack, there is also a threat to vulnerable people and objects in our society. In recent days we also saw a number of incidents and incidents at mosques, synagogues and so on. Does the Minister see that, too? What additional measures are being taken to protect vulnerable objects such as synagogues and mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u177	As Mr Kuzu knows, the government never monitors and secures communications about the system. I can say that we are in constant consultation with the organisations, bodies and sometimes individuals. They could even be buildings. Measures are then taken in consultation with stakeholders, generally on the basis of customisation. I cannot, however, make any further comments on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u178	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u179	Mr Zijlstra asked: is it an idea to draw up a list of people involved in financing wrong organisations in the Netherlands? An international sanction regime is available in that respect. The United Nations and the European Union have sanction lists containing a large number of persons involved in this type of activity. The United Nations recently added 25 names to that list. At national level, the Netherlands implements the obligations of Resolution 1373. We have a national terrorist list that currently has 40 names, 37 of which are individuals and 3 organisations. In addition, the Dutch investigative services, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other relevant bodies will, of course, provide a closer picture of facilitators and their financial relations. We are therefore alert to third-party funding from, for example, radical groups in the Netherlands. We will also take all the measures necessary to thwart that funding if the law allows it. Both Mr Zijlstra and Mr Buma asked about the criminalisation of the stay in a jihadist war zone. I have very recently informed the Chamber in detail about this in connection with the motion by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Oskam. We've had a thorough investigation of that. The conclusion is that the separate criminalisation of voluntary residence in an area controlled by a terrorist organisation is not appropriate. We have indicated in the progress report that, for this reason, we do not see sufficient reason to implement it. However, we have also noted that the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism, which includes the exit ban, is effective in achieving the desired goal. We achieve the goal, but by other means. Mr Segers asked about border control. Is there sufficient targeted border control within the Schengen rules? The Schengen system currently offers sufficient opportunities to intensify border control if necessary. On 18 September, the Secretary of State for Security and Justice informed the Chamber of this. He has reported that surveillance in the internal border area has been strengthened. This was possible on the basis of the exception clause provided for in the Aliens' Decree. At that time, the objective of intensification was threefold: to combat illegal immigration in particular, to prevent degrading incidents such as killed refugees, as we have seen in Austria, but also to prevent substantial incidents of public order and national security in the Netherlands. Following the attacks in Paris, the focus has shifted to the southern border within the scope of the Schengen system. Particular attention is paid to traffic between France and the Netherlands. This is information-driven by so-called mobile supervisory groups. The same applies to trains and air traffic. Mobile surveillance is intensified. The registration number is on 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, and is therefore also actively looking for any registration numbers that may be included in the investigations of, for example, the French or the Belgians. If there is a need for further scaling-up of border control, that would always be an option. We will then have to discuss this with the other Member States. On the basis of the Schengen Borders Code, further scaling-up can take place for 10 days with a maximum period of two months. Moreover, I do not rule out the possibility that there will be a further exchange of views between the Member States on this issue in Brussels tomorrow. Mr Segers asked whether the Netherlands is also doing something to give out the local and integrated approach that we find successful in other countries. I have good news for him. I myself speak with colleagues on a regular basis abroad, and I always tell them about our approach, which we have the impression is successful. International cooperation is also important in this area. In the Netherlands, all parties are in permanent contact with neighborhoods and networks through the use of district agents. I will come back to Mr Van de Staaij's question about the number of social work, education, neighbourhood coaches, neighbourhood directors, youth workers and so on. In addition, there are multidisciplinary cases that allow for a very targeted risk assessment and identification of measures in case of real individual risk cases by all these organisations. These multidisciplinary cases are generally also supported by the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security. We work intensively together to realize that approach, but also to present that approach abroad. During the EU Presidency, the Netherlands will already organise an international expert meeting on this preventive approach in February. The Dutch and local approaches will be central to this. In addition, the Radicalisation Awareness Network has existed at European Union level for a number of years now in good Dutch...................................................................................................................................................................................... There is an EU initiative secretariat attached to a Dutch organisation. Finally, there are also mayoral conferences where the mayors do not fail to tell what their role is and what responsibilities they take up in order to deal effectively with this. So we're conveying our message. However, this does not mean that we do not learn from other countries as well. That is what I am effectively and always looking for as a minister. Mr Zijlstra asked whether we could hurry with the Bill repealing the Netherlands for terrorist offences. It's in the First Chamber. On 21 October, the First Chamber issued a further preliminary report. That was quite extensive and very critical in a number of areas too. In the direction of all the group chairmen who have spoken here, I would say that such a bill, which the government believes is urgently needed, can count on considerable criticism. I would appreciate it if we could have the plenary sitting in the First Chamber soon, if the government had responded to it this month. It would be a great pleasure for the government if the bill were to be passed as well. Mr Zijlstra also asked about the prevention of exit. I have just given a comprehensive answer to that. Mr Samsom asked for an interruption to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I answered that, too. Mr Van der Staaij is concerned about the district agents. We currently have 96% of all neighborhood agents who should be there in order. There are still some problems, as I said in the debate on the National Police. Not every district cop has just one neighborhood. There are currently district agents with multiple neighborhoods. That means that the last 4% of the neighborhood agents that are still needed to complete that whole picture can be added very soon. However, I note that I have already said in the past, and Mr Oskam has already asked many questions about this, that, as a result of the reorganisation of the National Police, we have agreed with the police unions that the people who will not be placed on a post at the beginning of January should also have the opportunity to apply in a place as a district agent. For this reason, not all vacancies are deliberately filled at this time. At the time when the staff organisation was completed in the spring, the door is open to all district agents in accordance with the agreements with the participation and the unions. By the way, the number of district agents and the way you give those orders are not a matter of the government or the National Police, but of local authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr van der Staaij, I think it is a good thing that you have this debate on the interruption, but we are discussing the Justice budget next week, so there is room to go into depth. I will, of course, give you the opportunity to respond to the Minister's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u181	Yes, precisely because this is an example of the fact that it has been in the law for years and that we do not meet that standard. That's impossible, isn't it? This has to do with the way we talk about measures. Surely we can assume that it will actually be realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u182	I agree entirely with Mr Van der Staaij, but I would like to express my support for the agreements reached with the co-determination and police unions for understandable reasons. If you are in the process of reorganising the workforce, which has taken much longer than expected, that is part of the explanation of the problem, you must give the people who in theory do not yet come to a new position in that reorganisation the opportunity to get to work in the spring. That's why it's not all filled out yet. The goal is that all these neighborhood agents should be there. I also note that after the attacks in Paris, extra efforts were made by the district agents in the neighbourhoods throughout the Netherlands to re-establish that connection with society. I am convinced that this is one of the factors of success that we have in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u183	Sure, but that's exactly why I'm bringing it up here. I got a text from a mayor who says he's barely getting the 1 in 10,000. This is because there is a need for much greater density in a large city nearby. Surely it cannot be the intention that the average is in order, but that the norm is not being met in areas where there seems to be less problems but where we need those eyes and ears in the neighbourhoods as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u184	I agree, that standard is there. It is legal and the starting point is that it is just being achieved. If Mr Van der Staaij would be so kind as to reveal to me the mayor per closed couvert, I will be happy to understand him, also because the mayor has a far-reaching responsibility to decide for himself how to deploy his own police officers in his own neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u185	It's a weird story after all. We have a legal standard. The Minister is taking our practice across the border to tell our Belgian neighbours how fantastic it is. We have a pious wish that it will be good one day and that we will meet the standard. It's painful to see that every time that neighborhood cop is the lockout. Every time there's another drug operation or when buildings need to be secured, he's the child of the account again. Every time that happens, it's at the expense of the neighborhood cop, whom we're now saying is crucial that he's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u186	I don't have the impression that buildings are being secured by district agents. That was the case for a while, but that was taken over by the Royal Marechaussee. I understand very well why the agreement with the unions in the context of the reorganisation of staff was made not to fill these district agents up to 100% now, thereby depriving people of the opportunity to work as a district agent. This agreement was made in good consultation with the participation and the trade unions. I'm gonna have to stick to that, but I understand the deal. I ask Mr Segers to show that understanding too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u187	I fully understand the reorganisation and the extremely difficult position of the National Police. That's a very complicated one. At the same time, it is now five to twelve or perhaps five to twelve. We've been through a massive attack. The difference with Molenbeek and Paris is that we have district agents, that we know what is happening in the neighbourhoods, that we have eyes on those young people and that this district agent plays a crucial role. Then those appointments will be in a new light, given what happened last week? Then we must say with extra priority that this district agent is our first man in the front against local jihadism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u188	It's not just the neighborhood cop, our approach is broader. I've said that before. Every neighborhood in the Netherlands has a district agent. There are vacancies and they will be filled as soon as possible in the context of the reorganisation of staff, precisely because we also want to give people the opportunity to become a district agent and to be able to practice that fine profession. I can't make it much more. Its importance and the agreements we have made are clear and are the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u189	This is underlined here by a legal standard. We have indeed made agreements, but there is now an extra urgency because sometimes we are dealing with ticking time bombs. It is of the utmost importance that there are people in the neighbourhoods who have eyes on these young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u190	I fully agree with Mr Segers' final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u191	I don't rule out the fact that a lot of neighborhood cops think this is a bit of a paper discussion. The Minister writes that 96% has been filled in. He points out that mayors also have a role to play in the way the police are deployed. When I visit asylum seekers' centres, I see that it is always the district agent who gets the tasks of the asylum seekers' centre. He spends a lot of his time on that. Should we not be honest and say that with the arrival of all these refugees, the police and, in particular, the district agent, there have been quite different tasks, and that there are major gaps in the regular function of the district agents at the moment? That must be a concern of the police and therefore of the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u192	Let me clarify who has what responsibility. The mayor in the local triangle decides which agent is to be deployed where. Neither the Minister of Justice nor the National Police Corps Department provides that an individual agent is not deployed in the neighbourhood but at an asylum-seekers' centre. That decision lies with the local triangles. If we believe that this is not done in the right way, it is up to the municipal councils to discuss this with the mayor who is their representative in the triangle. There's nothing I can do about that as a minister. We have chosen this explicitly, and we have reaffirmed it once again in the review of the National Police. It is precisely the discussion about what capacity is being used where that is being done that is being conducted by local authority in the local triangle. By the way, that's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u193	Here comes a big "hidden" problem in the reception of refugees, namely that the police get a lot of extra tasks on their plate. The minister says, probably within his budget, that sharing is your job. The mayor has no choice, because he cannot say that he ultimately chooses to leave the azc completely unprotected and leave the district agent's job for what he is. No, he has to. Here we come to the other point. I shall leave it at that, because the President has rightly referred to the budget next week. However, this is one of the reasons why the police are under such pressure and we do not escape doing more to the budget of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u194	I believe that this debate can take place next week. I thank Mr Buma for his comments. I will continue with Mr Van der Staaij's question as to whether we are making sufficient use of the international knowledge on security. The answer to that question is yes. We are in close contact with the surrounding countries and there is a continuous exchange of knowledge on security and security measures. A good example of this is the so-called Atlasverband in which the European special intervention units exchange knowledge, train together and also practice together. Those intervention units shall act in the event of a terrorist attack. Mr Klaver asked a question about deradicalisation and its obligation to do so. I made a commitment on that. Mr Bontes asked whether the tax advantage of organisations and mosques inviting hate preachers could be reduced. Mr Bontes and I have had this debate before. The withdrawal of an anbi status is currently possible. However, foundations that we find worrying do not have an anbi-status. I have already mentioned this to Mr Bontes, perhaps in response to written questions. The response to the Van Klaveren initiative paper, which follows as soon as possible. One thing is certain, if there is a criminal offence, there is simply action, detection and, where necessary, prosecution. Mr. Bontes further asked if the Royal Marechaussee could be more visible and more armed with objects, for example at stations and Jewish institutions. The events in Paris today are not a reason to change the current measures. However, these measures are always monitored, as I have just said. If the threat and the risk give rise to it, additional measures will be taken, the security will be adjusted and, if necessary, the armament will also be adjusted. This brings me to the end of the answers to the questions put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u195	I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister, also Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr. Chairman. The horrible attacks on innocent Parisians make us angry and sometimes scared, but they also lead to a counter-movement. That's important. As the Prime Minister said, there are more of us. I am convinced that many more people want to live in freedom and let humanity prevail than there are those who are blinded by hatred and fanaticism. Such an attack is an attack on the safety of the people who go to a concert or terrace, but it is also an attack on freedom. It's our job to defend both. That is what we do with our services, with the police, with Defense through the armed forces, in the Netherlands and beyond. But we all do it, by defending that freedom and security in word and justice. I have seen some people react badly and the minute silence is sometimes disturbed; Halbe Zijlstra spoke about this in his term. With him I find it horrible when that happens and someone cannot respect the grief that so many people have at the moment, because they have to bury people and their loved ones are lost. I also know this is happening. After the attacks in Paris in January, I attended school when children spread conspiracy theories and said that the Americans or Jews actually did it. Then you feel the same kind of anger in you and you think: didn't you understand at all? I then saw something clever happening there, which I hope happened at the primary schools that Zijlstra was talking about. The teacher who was there did not send those children out of the classroom but forced them to think more deeply about it. Where did you get this, anyway? Why are you chatting about that? What television channel gave you this wisdom? Eventually, we'll have to win it. We will have to win by being stronger in physical terms, with weapons, but we will also have to do it by not allowing children to grow up with this kind of delusion. We know it happens and it's a problem in many places. Many young people are raised with insufficient awareness of the freedom in which we live here, and with insufficient critical ability to ask if they get propaganda and poison through Facebook and all kinds of other means. We also know that there is something to be said about this. In this respect, teachers are also defenders of our freedom and security. They can ask and talk about it so that children will think about it better and they will not fall for it next time. For these recruiters, in my view, are also children's enticers of evil. They are consciously looking for people who are vulnerable and sensitive to the fallacy and convenience of someone who tells you: you are a good Muslim and not so. I am also glad that Zijlstra then pointed out that incredibly many Dutch, so also incredibly many Dutch Muslims, expressed their disgust. The organizations in the Muslim community were very quick and clear in their response. In the past, there was a tendency to say "yes, but" all the time. I couldn't see it now. There was a clear disgust over the attacks. That is important, because just by saying "yes, but," you leave a crack open, as if there were an excuse for murder, violence and terror somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u197	I think it's a fair point. When you do that and you see it and then you hear your hair stand up straight; it's terrible when you react like that at times when respect is in place. So I agree with the Minister's response. Just, doesn't the Minister wonder with me how it is possible that there is apparently an environment in which an atmosphere arises in which this happens? Doesn't that have everything to do with the environment that these kids apparently grow up in and, if so, what are we supposed to learn from? Doesn't that have something to do with neighborhoods where we live side by side? Doesn't that have something to do with salafism? Doesn't it have to do with...? Those questions come to mind with me. I assume that the Minister has also seen these questions bubbling up and hope that he may have an answer to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u198	That is a very fair question from Mr Roemer and it echoes in that regard in Samsom's plea to look at what is happening in our neighbourhoods. We know that we have no Molenbeek in the Netherlands and no situation like that in the banlieus in Paris, but that is no reason for complacency. We also know that Dutch young people have traveled to Syria who are also caught by this poison, this evil. As far as I'm concerned, we should be careful what happened between Samsom and Buma, and we're gonna say to each other, "You're just talking about the neighborhoods, and you're just talking about the guns." It's en-and. You will have to equip the services and the armed forces with powers and means to defend us against violence and you will have to continue to invest in neighbourhoods, district agents and teachers to reduce the vulnerability of Dutch people to this idea as much as possible. And that is what we are doing from the realization that there are also radicalising people who have not had a difficult childhood at all or who have had a job. So it's never black and white, but we have to realize that in that breeding ground, in that pool of young people who feel trapped and feel that they don't belong, that they sometimes experience things, that sometimes show criminality and are looking for an easy way out, the child lurers of evil find their potential victims. That's what they're aiming for with propaganda. Those kids are seduced, too. So an approach to radicalisation also involves making society as resilient as possible and investing in that resilience. That is why we are also investing in the professionals involved in this action plan. I am talking about the teachers, the agents, but also the youth care workers, that is, the people who are primarily in contact with young people who may be prone to radicalisation and who can also support them if that happens. And I'll add: also be able to offer support to the families. You can see that even families sometimes worry about their children because they are afraid that they are going out too. And even then, we must try to help here again: there are no 100% guarantees to prevent it from getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u199	I share the view that such measures can be of great importance; if the environment so requests, we must do so and continue to do so. I also share the Minister's remark that there can be many reasons for radicalisation. Even if we take a few of them out now, we are absolutely not suggesting that these can be the only causes. However, I would like to get a specific one back now. And that is that we also have neighbourhoods in the Netherlands where people in parallel groups live together and therefore do not live together. However, nothing has been done about this in recent years. In fact, the segregation is actually increasing. I had hoped that this Minister would acknowledge this and say that we in the Chamber and the cabinet will really have to do something about it. So more attention to spreading people in schools and spread neighbourhoods. The second question that the Minister has not addressed is that of the influence of Salafist organizations, which I believe we still have far too little view of. So two questions in one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u200	Then let me try to answer both parts a little more precisely. Of course, the Netherlands also has areas where there is a accumulation of problems and where unemployment is much higher, areas which are mono-ethnically composed, where the prospects for young people are much worse and where safety is sometimes less. Not at the level we see in Molenbeek, not at the level we see in the suburbs of Paris, but we certainly have those vulnerable neighbourhoods as well. Over the years, a great deal has been done about this by various Cabinets. The fact that a lot has been done about it means that here the police are just walking into that neighborhood, not in army gear. Here, with urban renewal, there has been huge investment in the improvement of these neighbourhoods. That is not perfect and not finished, and there are enough problems there to solve, but something is being done about it. That is a choice we must continue to make, also against simplifications on the other hand. It is also true that investing in these neighbourhoods does not guarantee that sometimes people radicalise and sometimes even want to commit terror. What has this government done about it, Mr Roemer asked. In that question there was a reproach that we would not do anything about it. It is true that we do not necessarily spread between schools, but then it is just about what is effective now. If you want mixed schools and mixed neighborhoods, a mandatory distribution in schools is not going to work. What does work is to improve the quality of those schools. We see in different places that parents are quite willing to take their children to a mixed school, but then the quality must be in order. That is what the government is committed to. As far as mixed housing is concerned, this government is focusing on a variety of affordable rentals, including for the middle class, including for buyers. In his strengthened legislation, Blok has tried to limit the SS Rotterdam experiments of corporations but to allow them to retain their social function, just for mixed living. I immediately acknowledge that Mr Roemer has other ideas on how to achieve this mix of neighbourhoods, but he cannot deny that this is a shared goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u201	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u202	I had asked a second question about salafism, which you would be addressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u203	Yes, Mr Roemer is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u204	If we want children to grow up together, we do not escape paying more attention to scattered living and also going to school spread out. I had hoped that this Minister would acknowledge this and say: we are going to work harder on it in the light of experience at home and abroad. Because we now have demonstrably neighbourhoods where we live side by side and not with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u205	If we manage to improve education support in those neighbourhoods, improve the quality of those schools in those neighbourhoods, ensure that the district agent knows those neighbourhoods and that they are attractive and safe, then we have achieved a lot. While I'm afraid that if you're going to be forced to spread people across neighborhoods and across schools, it's going to be counterproductive. Again, this shows that we do not agree on the instruments, but we do agree on the objective. Then salafism. Yes, you can see that fundamentalist interpretations of Islam are popular and are gaining strength in some places. Here too, we need to be precise. Those who tell children, under the guise of them, what it is to be a good Muslim, to steer the path of ISIS, terror and extremism must be fought hard. We must distinguish ourselves from people who want to exercise their faith in freedom as an individual choice, because that is part of the freedom we protect in the Netherlands. This means that you have to keep looking at the behaviour of organisations, what they do and what the messages they distribute are, and that you have to respond to them and protect young people from it. There comes a second tricky fact. However successful we are and become, there will always be access to extremist ideas, to fundamentalist ideas, to violent salafistic ideas. So at least as important as combating the spread of that idea is making young people resistant to it. That's why I started it. This is done by a good upbringing, but also at school. That is not an easy task. We must help teachers, because they have to have that difficult conversation, even if something bad happens, because that is a time for change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u206	I share the concerns of Mr Roemer, who also asked what this government is doing. The Minister referred to what previous Cabinets have done. I would like to know from this Minister what he has done over the past three years to work on the problems and the observations he has made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u207	I have just answered that question in the direction of Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u208	That's not true. The Minister talked about what Cabinets have done and what other ministers have done. Here is the minister responsible for integration. I also note in his tone that when we talk about these issues he constantly refers to groups in society that would not do well. How does he see his own role and what has he done for the past three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u209	Let me give you some examples. Over 3,500 professionals have been trained in the past year to increase their expertise in this field, to recognise signals and to engage in a good way. Recently, a state training institute against radicalisation has been set up that offers trainings to staff from the foreign chain and from the youth care, welfare and security sectors. Agreements have been made with various Islamic and migrant organisations to fight extremism together. There is a family support point radicalisation operational. The Justice Minister just mentioned the exit facility that started. Any school that has problems with radicalisation or jihadism can count on support from the Empire. Together with the colleague of OCW, we are developing programmes for schools in the eighteen municipalities where we see the most problems. In the coming year 2,500 teachers and school boards will be trained. Municipalities most affected by the problem have also received a contribution from the reinforcement funds for this purpose. In addition to these fortifications, more than 30 municipalities have exchanged intensive knowledge within learning circles during the past year, in which experience in this field is exchanged. Municipal professionals can also use the support of this year's Expertise Unit Social Stability. And so on, and so on. But, Madam President, I think that Mrs Ku, excuse me, Mr Kuzu, you are the lady, that is the Commissioner who did not want to know what we did, but wanted to make a political point. Then let him do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u210	This is, of course, a very weak answer. The minister says he's done a number of things. There are 18 municipalities trained of the 393 municipalities we currently know. He lists a list and talks about an expertise unit stability and radicalisation. Does he think that he can solve the problems and challenges we face with these solutions for three years? Does he think he can solve that with these kind of soft, one-sided measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u211	Sometimes a prophecy comes out very quickly. This was the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u212	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u213	Proceed, Minister, proceed. Minister, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u214	I turn to Mr Zijlstra's question about integration and lessons from the past. I think that is a very important notion, precisely because we know that a large number of refugees are likely to be given status and will be staying here in the near future. As long as this is necessary in terms of their security, we must also take part as a principle: anyone who stays here must participate. If you want to participate, you need to know and innerize the values of Dutch society and you need to be able to contribute. To make these values clear, we must learn the lessons of the past. We need to be more explicit about the core values of Dutch society. These are in the Constitution. Those are the freedoms. These are the values acquired over the centuries as equal treatment between men and women, straight and gay. These are the examples that Zijlstra gave. I believe that we should be clear about these values and enable them to make a quick contribution to Dutch society. It does indeed require active policies to ensure that we do better with this group than we have done in the past. A motion has been adopted by Mr Klaver, if I am not mistaken, to send a letter to the SZW budget on how we are going to implement that aspect of the refugee issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u215	This budget will be dealt with in the first week of December. Mr. Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u216	I very much agree with what the Minister says. Can we trust that this is not a non-binding exercise? If you point to values and standards and say "this is important to us," then there must also be a consequence if people reject them and say: I have signed a paper, but that was mainly a paper exercise. Does the Minister share that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u217	Very much so. It's got to be en-and. You have to convince people that it's preferable to live in a free country. You have to want to choose that. But there's another side to it, too. I do not intend to arrange this in two weeks' time, but I announce this to Mr O'Brien to create a hook in the integration law, the law that also lays down the obligations for people who are going to settle in here to include this element. It won't be non-committal. Then it applies to everyone and that's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u218	Very good. We look forward to that. As the Minister says now, I think we are going to be very much in agreement on this. I have another question about a lesson from the past. It's about the size of groups. To what extent is it possible to integrate into very large groups? The larger the group, the worse the integration often, because the people in the group then turn to each other instead of integrating into society. Integration is often a personal, individual process. I understand that the Minister cannot answer that right now, but will the lessons to be learned include these aspects? What is that supposed to mean for policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u219	I think this is a very important point. We must maintain a liberal value which is part of the Dutch core values. You must point to individual choices, individual freedom of choice and individual responsibility. It is precisely those freedoms that we defend here that believe or do not believe, that expressing your opinion in any way requires people to be treated as individuals. This also means that you have to protect them from group pressure and that you have to give them from the very beginning that integrating them into Dutch society means that you have that individual freedom. That never means that you should not be proud in your background or that you should not feel connected to Friesland or to the country where you come from, but it means that as a free individual you may make your choices in our society. Finally. On this point, I missed a number of Members on the interrupting microphone. The Prime Minister gave a very powerful statement on Saturday in response to the attacks in Paris. In a question&answer he described that the Netherlands actually contributes to the battle, the armed battle in war zone Iraq. The Prime Minister has spoken on behalf of the cabinet, has spoken on my behalf. His words have been expressed on my behalf. It is true that I am reluctant to keep the word "war" in my mouth permanently, but the Prime Minister has spoken on my behalf. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u220	This is a very interesting, hidden way of revealing the difference. The Deputy Prime Minister says very clearly: we contribute to a battle in war zone. The Prime Minister said we're at war. Then the vice prime minister said, "I don't use those words." Does the Deputy Prime Minister say literally here that we are at war?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u221	I referred to the Prime Minister's statement. He said: this is a factual observation. Our Prime Minister, as a lover of England, often says: statement of fact. That's what he just said here. Mr Buma points out that I choose my own words. That's right. That doesn't mean I disagree with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u222	It can't be. It is not that a statement of fact "we are at war" can live alongside a deputy prime minister who says: those are not my words. 'Cause that's what he's essentially saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u223	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u224	What do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u225	Mr Buma is deliberately wrong to quote me. He says that I would have claimed: those are not my words. I never said that. I said I choose my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u226	It's the word "war" that matters to me. It's about a prime minister who says the day after an attack: The Netherlands is at war, IS is the enemy. It is about a Deputy Prime Minister who is also making it clear: yes, we are fighting in war zone, but the words 'we are at war with IS' are words you do not hear me use. I hear that very well. I want to be clear. A cabinet that so confusingly communicates about the word "war" shows no form of moral leadership in times of crisis. The Netherlands wants clarity. If a prime minister on Saturday says "we're at war, IS is the enemy," then the vice prime minister then says: the prime minister is right, we're at war, IS is the enemy. The fact that the Deputy Prime Minister doesn't even say it now, it bypasses, is very telling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u227	I'm really sorry about what's going on here. I started by saying: the Prime Minister is right; he spoke on my behalf. Next, Mr Buma says here: The Netherlands wants clarity. That betrays the enthusiasm with which he has said: the Prime Minister has used the word 'war', so we must now do this and that. But that's not clear. That's sham clarity. Mr Buma says: because the Prime Minister has said so, we now have to bomb Syria; otherwise the Netherlands will keep clean hands. That's just not true. You can't say that the Netherlands keeps clean hands. I was there when the decision was made to participate in Iraq. That's not a light decision. Those aren't clean hands. Any decision by which you send Dutch soldiers is an incredibly hard decision. You don't take that because you say, "Hey, he says "war," he doesn't, now it has to! No, clarity towards the Netherlands means that you are honest about the fact that this battle, this "war" if you want, is a hybrid battle. It's not a fight against a country, not a battle you can win by just throwing bombs. It is a battle that is also fought with tweets and facebookposts and is also conducted in Dutch classrooms. Mr Buma is looking for sham clarity. I thought I would reassure him immediately by saying that the Prime Minister spoke on my behalf. Mr Buma could also have said: well, then I am relieved again, because I was so worried about the picture among the Dutch people; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u228	I don't understand this whole vice prime minister's tirade. I asked him one question. The words the Prime Minister used are words that stand out. Think of the words of Hollande. I see the same words twice. I think that's on behalf of the cabinet. I read one day later that the Deputy Prime Minister says: those are words I do not use. Again, that's a big difference. Now the vice prime minister says, "We're at war." I hope he heard himself say it. Now it's possible. In short, the Deputy Prime Minister also says, one minute ago, that we are at war. If that is the case, if a cabinet says that to the Netherlands, then the vice prime minister can use a whole string, but then I keep saying: that's something. The cabinet does not have to say that, but chooses to do so. Apparently, it also chooses the words of the Deputy Prime Minister: that is important. Indeed, the question is what measures should be taken. That is what the whole debate has been about. We disagree on this, but apparently the whole cabinet is now convinced that they are everyone's words, including the words of the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u229	This wasn't a tirade, but it was a complicated message for me. I have great respect for Mr Buma. Maybe he wants to look back at the last part of his interruption and then wonder what exactly that contributes. I agree with the Prime Minister, but I have also explained why I am economical in using that word. After all, this is not a simple situation in which you say: there must be clarity, these measures must be taken because that word has been used. We, the Chamber and the Government, have a responsibility to do more than just say: a word has been used in a press conference. As the Prime Minister said, it was not a question of the legal concept; it was a description of the facts, a statement of fact. So please let us take each other seriously. If I've given the impression that I wanted to play a word game, I'm sorry. I don't feel like it at all. I want to be careful with that word, but I also want to make it clear that the Prime Minister spoke on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u230	That is clear, but I would like to ask another question. I agree with the Deputy Prime Minister that you should be reluctant to use the word. I'm glad he does, too. But why does he think you should be reluctant to use the word "war"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u231	Exactly because of what happened here. It is clear that we are fighting against a gruesome organisation, but we remain responsible for weighing every decision carefully and soberly. It is already a problematic example of using that word too easily when you say: hey, that word has been used, so now we no longer need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of bombing in Syria. Once again, in the context in which that word was used, this has been done on my behalf, because something is going on here. What happened in Paris is horrible. What the Netherlands is doing in Iraq is not throwing down pepper nuts. They're bombs, too. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u232	I'm happy about that. When we use the language of war, it seems as if only military solutions can be found to the problem we face. That is why I really hope that the cabinet will show restraint with those words. I am not concerned whether or not the Minister supports the Prime Minister in his words, but he does; he has been very clear about that, but those words have meaning. That's what he's saying now. Actually, it's not wise to talk about war. He could have chosen other words to describe the facts. It could have been about an armed conflict, but the cabinet chooses to choose war terms. I fear that the framework of thought will therefore focus on the military solutions that are possible and that the political solutions will be lost. I hope, however, that I am wrong and that the broad solution will always be looked at, especially for the conflict in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u233	It can be assumed that the Prime Minister and I are very aware of the particular responsibility of the cabinet at a time such as this, in which we have to decide on the use of Dutch military personnel, a heavy decision, and on the commitment here of the police and Marechaussee people, who also have to protect the Dutch population at risk for their own lives. However, we are well aware that we also have a battle to win in the neighbourhoods, which begins at primary schools and which must take place in conversations, a battle of ideas. Of these two elements, the Prime Minister and I are aware and we are very much in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u234	This put an end to the government's first term. Mr Van Haersma Buma has asked whether there can be a short suspension before the second period begins. I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u235	The next item is the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u236	Madam President. What naivety and lack of action in this cabinet! Big words about war, but zero point zero measures to make the Netherlands safe. The conclusion can therefore only be that we are not going to win the war declared by Mr Rutte with such a Prime Minister. How is it possible: 60,000 asylum seekers entering the Netherlands this year alone without a final check? People with fake passports or without passports simply enter our country and are allowed to enter the procedure, with all the risks it entails. And how is it possible, as we have just heard from the Minister of Security and Justice, that 42 Syrians who have already returned to the Netherlands are not already behind bars, but walking freely in our cities? The Minister of Justice now wants to send a letter about preemptive capture and detention, but I do not want a letter at all. I want them arrested and imprisoned today. Not words and not letters, but deeds; that is what the Netherlands are waiting for. What kind of country is this? What kind of cabinet is this? If you don't pay a parking ticket, you'll be held hostage and you'll go to jail, but if you've been to Syria to serve Allah and ISIS and to kill, you can walk freely in the Netherlands. Madness! Madness! And in the meantime, we are Islamic and we are surprised at all the attacks that are going to happen and which, unfortunately, will happen. I have often tabled a motion of censure, but rarely with as much conviction as today. This cabinet makes the Netherlands not safer but more unsafe by shouting but not doing so. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-328]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u237	Madam President. I thank the cabinet for answering the questions. It is good to have the debate today on the terrible attacks in Paris, to express our feelings of disgust about what has happened and to stand firm against terror and our Jewish Christian values. It is also important to consider carefully whether the measures we have taken are sufficient and whether additional measures may be needed. Next week, when we discuss the budget for Justice and Security, we will discuss the state of implementation of all the measures so far. I have expressed my concerns about this on behalf of the CDA. We shall come back to that. Above all, this steadfastness is in times of crisis. In this respect, I have experienced a number of times in the debate when I was wondering whether the cabinet showed that determination. On Saturday, the Prime Minister called for 'war', but did not appear to be able to mention any measures associated with that ruling. That leads to confusion. I have just had a debate on whether the whole cabinet is using that word now, but that remains mist. It is true that it is not a word, but the word "war" is not just a word. That means there's an enemy you want to defeat. After a few years you can't say: sorry, it didn't work; the others didn't do enough. Then there's a responsibility. I repeat the call for the Prime Minister to take an example in leadership this week of Mayor Aboutaleb's performance in Rotterdam. How can it be that he is able to find the words of unity, solidarity and steadfastness that the Prime Minister does not seem to be getting over his lips? I thought that the Prime Minister was just sinking through the ice at some point; I say that very honestly and I am very hard at it. That was when he felt it necessary to refer to Minister Hillen of Defense in his first cabinet for motivating 1 billion cuts in Defense. That cabinet had the name of Prime Minister Rutte. On top of that, he indicated that the VVD Minister made more money available in the current cabinet. However, the question is not whether the current Minister is making more money available. I am not talking about the responsibility in the previous cabinet either. I have said before that the CDA bears co-responsibility for this. The question is who is taking responsibility for the situation now. That responsibility lies with the Prime Minister. However, he does not fulfil that responsibility with the poor budget of Defense, at a time he himself describes as a time when we are "at war." As far as the CDA is concerned, the handling of the defence budget will be a different one. It won't be anymore: whatever, we're gonna do it like this. The CDA has tabled a very well covered amendment of 200 million for the Defence budget. That is not impossible and it is simply feasible. I advise the Prime Minister and his Minister of Defence to accept this amendment or to come up with another cover so that we do not have to sell equipment but can buy equipment. If not, my group will have to seriously consider how it is going to vote in that budget. I'm finishing up, 'cause I'm already over time. I'll file the next motion. The request to the cabinet is to reply very quickly and not to do so now. However, that does not make it any less serious. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prime Minister said that the Netherlands is at war with IS;]] [[noting that the use of this term has consequences;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber within one week of the consequences of this declaration for:]] [[the action of the Netherlands in Syria to combat IS;]] [[the approach of returned IS fighters with whom the Netherlands is at war;]] [[the impact on the defence budget and other budgets;]] [[monitoring the borders of the Netherlands and Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-329]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u238	Madam President. It was for me the first debate on this subject in this context. However, I have a fear that this will not be the last debate. I have a fear that we will have to fight the evil of jihadism for a long time to come, with full attention and with all that is in us. The commonality we find in it is the power of our freedom. It is the strength of our democratic rule of law that makes us find each other in that common enemy. The Deputy Prime Minister was right to say that we should not distinguish between repression and the approach in the neighbourhoods, between repression and prevention. That's the combination it's got to be about. We will have to go into the neighbourhoods, we will have to go after our young people and we will have to find them when they are about to radicalise. We need to gain the trust of the parents so they can pick up the phone and call the police. That's one side of the story. The fight against ISIS, or wherever the jihadists may be, will require a long international effort from us. On both points, repression and prevention, and tough approach and neighborhood approach, I shall table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable for permanent specialists and teams in the National Police to build up sustainable knowledge and skills on radicalisation;]] [[calls on the government to provide structural guarantees to the National Police against radicalisation and terrorism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Zijlstra, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Samsom, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Klaver, Mr Pechtold and Mr Roemer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-330]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u239	My second motion concerns the crucial work in the neighbourhoods. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the local approach to radicalisation has been significantly reduced in the years before 2013;]] [[noting that this approach has been partially restored in several cities, as in Utrecht with the action programme "Utrecht we are together";]] [[Considering that an effective approach to radicalisation requires an integrated approach with permanent teams of district agents, probation, youth work, community work and ggz, focusing on:]] [[financial and organisational possibilities for the organisations concerned to contribute to these teams;]] [[sustainable availability and training of all stakeholders in these teams;]] [[availability of local and youth workers with knowledge and skills and a broad network in the risk areas;]] [[the availability of a district agent in each district according to the legal standard;]] [[cooperation with intelligence services, inter alia, by partially exempting district agents in order to be able to carry out intelligence work;]] [[support from the municipality by competent officials;]] [[calls on the government to give priority to investment in an effective approach to radicalisation by professionals working in the neighbourhoods themselves, following Utrecht's example,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Samsom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u240	It remains for me to wish the cabinet wisdom and strength in the never-ending struggle against this evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u241	Mr. Chairman. We had an extensive discussion about the use of the word "war." That is indeed a loaded term; I admit that immediately. But I think we also agree that we are not talking about a football camp here. We're bombing. There's been an attack. So let us be careful to bring it back to a discussion about only the word "war." It's about a lot more. I understand that, among other things, Mr Buma puts the emphasis on this, but let us be careful that we end up here in a sort of Hague debate about the use of the word 'war', when the problem is very big. I do not think this is the first thing that is on the lips of Dutch people who are worried. Syria was linked to this. That clutch isn't there for me. The VVD Group has long expressed its view on Syria that it will support a possible decision to participate in bombing in Syria. I repeat that here, if only to let the cabinet hear it again. I would like to make a few more arguments. The cabinet mentioned the meeting in Vienna. In Vienna, all the parties concerned have said one thing in common: address IS. I therefore believe that there is a justification for this. A possible clash between Russian aircraft and NATO aircraft is also mentioned. That situation already exists. The participation of the Netherlands does not do anything about that. Now NATO planes, France and America, are already flying over Syria. In my opinion, adding Dutch aircraft does not matter. Know that, as far as the VVD Group is concerned, we can take that step. The decision to do so is up to the government. We shall await such a decision. The government will have to make its own considerations about this. I'm coming to stay in a terrorist area. We have previously tabled, together with the CDA, a motion that is the Dijkhoff/Oskam motion to voluntarily include residence in a terrorist area in the Code of Criminal Law as a hook to arrest people who come back from there. In view of the first-term reactions, we are now going to retable that motion. As far as we are concerned, such a hook must be created. I heard in the Minister of Justice's reply that it can't be done. It couldn't be legal. However, I believe that we, the Cabinet and the Chamber, are legislators. If it is not legally possible, then I think we can amend laws. That is the task of all of us. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Dutch travel to Syria to participate in the armed struggle as a member of a terrorist organisation and on return pose a threat to Dutch security;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable;]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of the safety of the Netherlands to arrest, interrogate and prosecute any returned jihad traveller;]] [[Whereas the rule of law should provide a sound legal basis for this;]] [[calls on the Government to criminalise the voluntary residence in territory controlled by a terrorist organisation, except for exceptions to, for example, journalists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Zijlstra, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u242	We have actually already heard the opinion of the Minister for Security and Justice on this motion. He said, "We've done some research on it, and it's not gonna work." In the operative part, I heard, an exception is made for journalists. There are aid workers. There are refugees coming from here. Will there be a list of exceptions? How could this be workable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u243	You should put first what's a situation where it's not punishable. Journalists are one of them. A fugitive fled from the same terrorists. That's obvious. That's another ground. However, we want to create brackets to secure those people when they return. Let's be honest: you don't go on beach holidays to Raqqa, to name but a few. You're not going to ISIS territory to have a nice survival trip. At least, in the most essential sense of the word perhaps. We therefore need to create brackets in the Netherlands, within the limits of the rule of law, in order to make that criminalisation possible. Maybe that requires a change of law. That is what this motion refers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u244	I look forward to the renewed judgment of the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u245	In my opinion, the Prime Minister was clear in his reply to the question from the VVD Group on screening. The Prime Minister thus confirms that migrants are restricted in their freedom until they are screened. You can do that in one or two days. Then they should be available for such screening. If they do not do so, they are effectively evading government supervision. Then that's a criminal offense that you'll be able to deal with again. That way you can prevent them from traveling around. Once the screening has taken place, you've checked that they're not a security risk. Then, of course, one can move around freely. Did I get that right? I'd like to hear the confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u246	Mr. Chairman. This was a worthy debate. Admittedly, this has also been different on this subject, in this Chamber and with the same main players. I had a strong impression that the seriousness of what has happened in the past week has made us all aware that we have a duty to work together to find the best possible solution, as far as you can ever find it. Despite the inevitable attempts here and there to push one or the other stubbornly into the camp of the softies or the hardliners, I have the impression that almost all parties in this Chamber are looking for the balance. At least that's what the Labour Party is doing. I am proud of the military who are fighting on our behalf for peace and security elsewhere in the world, for example in Iraq. I am proud of the men and women of the KMar, who here, for this building and elsewhere in the Netherlands, sometimes even with long weapons guard the safety of the Netherlands. I now fully realize how dangerous their job is. I am proud of the teacher who dares to enter into the conversation in the classroom to teach young people the realization that they didn't have at first. I am proud of the youth worker who has been struggling in a neighbourhood for years without many opportunities and can thus avoid further misery. I believe in the balance between tough prevention and effective repression. In order to give this balance a boost, I have co-signed Mr Segers' motion and we will also support a number of other motions, for example on the neighbourhoods and the district agent. The balance can also be found elsewhere, for example in the search for even better use of criminal law. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable that all means of combating radicalisation and terrorism, including the use of criminal law, should be deployed within the limits of the rule of law;]] [[Whereas inciting hatred, discrimination or violence is punishable;]] [[noting that the continued use of deadly force, for example on internet forums, is currently not adequately combated by the government;]] [[calls on the Government to give greater priority to the prosecution of inciting hatred, discrimination and violence to combat radicalisation and terrorism and to consult the Public Prosecutor's Office in the near future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Samsom and Mr Zijlstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-333]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u247	I repeat it to Mr Segers: this will not be the last debate we have on this subject. In any case, let us hope that the next debate does not have the same cause as this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u248	Madam President. I thank the rulers for their reply. It was a debate in which words of sympathy were given, in which it was discussed whether our toolbox of powers was sufficiently filled and in which it also emerged that it was a battle for the heads and hearts. This spiritual resilience is also needed against the violence of radical Islam. The cabinet must not take panic measures, but must pursue vigorously what has already been promised and announced and keep in mind what new opportunities there are and what measures are needed. I am also thinking of the measure to ensure that we do not run unnecessary security risks with the flow of migrants. It is very important that attention be paid to this now. I would like to make one more motion myself, which concerns the district agent. It is important that those eyes and ears are there in the capillaries of society. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Article 38a of the 2012 Police Act establishes that there should be at least one district agent on every 5,000 inhabitants;]] [[noting that this standard for district agents is far from being met everywhere, although it is of great importance for the prevention of, inter alia, terrorist offences;]] [[considers that attention should be paid to the relationship between municipal administration and district agents and their preventive role in combating terrorism;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure as soon as possible:]] [[the legal standard for district agents is implemented;]] [[the area for district agents to actually operate in their neighbourhood for the purpose of achieving the local security targets in practice is guaranteed;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to strengthen the role and information position of the district agent in the fight against terrorism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers, Mr Samsom, Mr Zijlstra, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-334]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u249	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank colleagues and the cabinet for a nice debate. It was a worthy debate. What I liked best or the best was the searching tone I found among many colleagues. How are we gonna handle this? What does this mean? What measures does this include? I didn't hear the absolute certainty that we have all the solutions on a platter. In my contribution, I was talking about us and them. I'm glad I almost taste Chamberwide that it's clear who we and they are. We are the people in Ankara, Beirut and Paris, but also in The Hague. We are all those people who oppose the sick spirits of IS. They're a small group of twisted spirits. That's good. It's good to have that we-they-think sharp. I had drafted a motion on tackling radicalised young people. There has been talk of terrorist fighters coming here from abroad. It may sound bad when I say this, but I'm not so scared that people from abroad would want to come here and do us harm. What really scares me is that boys in the Netherlands radicalize. Those are guys born here, they're part of our society and they suddenly think they'd rather be with them, with ISIS. They leave for ISIS in Syria or Iraq and are trained to carry out the most horrible acts here. Deradicalizing them, especially when they come back, is of the utmost importance. I've been asking questions about the compulsion. I would like to add an urge to that. How can we get these guys back to us? If I have understood correctly, the Minister has promised a letter in which he will respond. I'll wait for that letter. Deradicalizing these guys is of the utmost importance to make our society a small step safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u250	Mr. Chairman. The process of radicalisation does not take place overnight. All anti-terrorists agree. We also need to focus on the breeding ground of radicalisation. In that sense, Mayor Van Aartsen of The Hague said it very strikingly. You have to fight both aspects of the extremes. The government does so with the Integrated Approach Action Programme Jihadism. That includes prevention and repression. In general, we support that. However, we can see that one extreme is being combated and the other extreme is not. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is working with a comprehensive Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme;]] [[noting that all forms of terror undermine our free society;]] [[Whereas all forms of extremism must be combated and a unilateral approach alone does not work;]] [[calls on the Government to include a comprehensive approach to legal extremism, so that both extremes are combated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-335]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u251	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their comprehensive reply. Today we have discussed the suffering in Paris and in other places in the world. We're in mourning for the victims and the next of kin. But we have to act now. There are many areas where there is a need for action. That's good, but it's not happening everywhere and it's not enough yet. Too little is being done to combat segregation, for example. Nice words about the police are good, but now there's action to be done. Next week we will be discussing the Justice budget in this Chamber. I can assume that the cabinet has understood the opposition's message: invest in the police, in the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the Dutch Forensic Institute and in the judiciary. I shall move on two points. If we can believe the reports of the German Government, among other things, the terrorist organisation ISIS is the capitalist terrorist organisation ever. For example, it succeeds in continuing its terrorist struggle, both in Iraq and Syria and elsewhere, as we have seen in the attacks in Lebanon, on a Russian plane and in France. We must do everything we can to ensure that ISIS is financially wiped out. We must ensure that money cannot be made from the sale of oil and that large sums of money cannot be transferred from rich countries to the Middle East, to this club. At the very least, we can ensure that individuals, organisations and companies operating from the Netherlands and Europe are not or can become involved in the financial maintenance of IS terror. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that despite all calls for financial draining of the terrorist organisation, IS receives large sums of money through oil trade and money flows from fundamentalist financiers;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that financial institutions under the jurisdiction of the Netherlands and/or the European Union are or will not be involved in any way in facilitating these flows of money;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to give priority, internationally, to cutting off the flow of funds to and from IS in order to stop financial oxygen for its terrorist acts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-336]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u252	There are still networks of Salafist organizations that can do their thing. We need to know which organisations in the Netherlands undermine our rule of law and encourage hatred and violence. We cannot allow this. One way to combat this is to draw up and publish as soon as possible the list of salafist organisations in the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that AIVD sees salafism as a breeding ground for jihadism;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a list of Salafist organisations operating in our country and to publish this list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Roemer and Mr Zijlstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-337]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u253	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the answers. Fear is a bad counselor. I would urge the cabinet not to wave away the fear that is felt in society and also in this house today. This is not happening either, but above all not to stir it up. In today's debate, much has been said about the importance of the presence of district agents. You're right. The PvdD also thinks this is very important. Neighborhood agents are the eyes and ears of the neighborhood and can detect problems at an early stage. I ask the cabinet once again to actively build a society in which solidarity and solidarity are the starting point. I expect the cabinet to oppose the we-they-thinking and the contradictions that result from it and to fight it with arguments. The cabinet should not speak muscle about the war, where the question is whether that war is now legally meant, transferable or a statement of fact, where a number of facts are clear but the statement is not. More important than seeing how we can go to war is to see how we can maintain peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u254	Mr. Chairman. A few examples of allowed violent preachers in the Netherlands. Mr Al-Kalbani: this man calls for the expulsion of Jews and Christians. Al-Haddad: he calls for the killing of Muslims who are apostate, as well as adulterers. Mr Çiftçi sent a message saying that infidels should be decapitated. All of them could quietly come to the Netherlands and spread their poison. That's gotta stop. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several preachers of violence have been admitted to our country during the last period;]] [[Whereas Islamic extremism must be combated as much as possible;]] [[Whereas the admission of preachers of violence is at odds with this and constitutes a threat to public order and security;]] [[calls on the government to refuse access to our country at all times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-338]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u255	Mr. Chairman. I have stated in the first term that I have confidence in the wisdom and intelligence of the cabinet and the way in which it deals with these problems. Above all, it must remain so and so on. That is why we must avoid any symbolic policy. I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in response to the terrorist acts in Paris, the call for measures to restrict freedom is increasing from the idea that the Netherlands will become safer;]] [[Whereas such symbolic measures only provide a form of false safety;]] [[calls on the government, even in these dark times, to continue to defend the principles of freedom of our rule of law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-339]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u256	I give the floor to the Prime Minister to respond to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u257	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address Mr Buma. He responded in the second term, I think I am quite right to be irritated by my remark about a previous Minister of Defense. I take that back. That wasn't appropriate. Sometimes in the debate, in the flow, you call something in your enthusiasm. This wasn't a strong moment. So, Mr Buma, I would like to say something withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u258	I had not yet turned on the microphone, but Mr Buma said thank you. That is now included in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u259	I owed Mr Roemer an answer on international funding. I shall return to that when I deal with his motion on this subject. There was also a question about the identification and registration process. How's it going to be available, et cetera? The delay in registration has now been eliminated. So we've lost it. When someone arrives at the registration centre, the current situation is that on day 1 there are all kinds of activities, including search and baggage search. A number of things take place on day 2. Someone must be permanently available for that trial. It is conceivable that someone has come forward and is available for that trial but leaves between day 1 and day 2. That is a reason for the police to look very closely at whether something happened on day one which gave rise to some concern. In that case, it's a signal. The person concerned will then be tracked down and the interrogation will continue. Of course, it may also be the case that someone leaves for Germany after day 1 with the thought: I've now figured out how complicated it is to get in here, so I'm going further away from it. Then there'll be no BOLO on its own. However, it may be that something happens on day 1 which gives reason to think that it is strange that someone has left between day 1 and day 2. That's a signal at the time to track them down and interrogate them again. I now come to the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 328. We now notice that Mr Wilders has put forward this motion of censure, because there is no date and no further considerations. So they're really on the shelf right now. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 329 by Mr Van Haersma Buma. I think we have discussed the description of what is happening now very well in the first term. I have also explained that it is a political comment and not a legal one. It's a factual observation. It therefore has no additional consequences other than the continuation of the fight. We have also recently sent a letter on the government's views on the situation over Syria, to which I referred in the first term. There are therefore no consequences that I can now put to the House in a letter. I therefore advise against this motion. A number of motions are dealt with by the Ministers of V and J and SZW. I now turn to the motion on part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I can tell you a very nice story about this, but I can also say that we consider the motion to support policy. I can explain that a little bit further. The draining of funding is one of the main traces of the anti-ISIS coalition. It is known that ISIS generates its revenue mainly locally. The measures aim at preventing ISIS from having access to international financial systems, preventing ISIS from receiving funding from abroad and preventing ISIS from supporting foreign affiliates. The Netherlands makes an active contribution to the development of measures in the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), which plays a central role. At the moment 37 people and 3 organisations are on the national terrorist list. Their financial assets are frozen. They are prohibited from making financial resources available. However, that is my first reaction to this motion, which we see as support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u260	So the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u261	Policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u262	No, that's it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u263	The verdict on this motion is therefore up to the Chamber. I now come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 337. In reply to the question about the Salafist organizations, I have said that they are very diffuse issues. The AIVD and NCTV reports showed that you can't just pin point where they are and what they are. In addition, we individually look at people's behaviour. We do this, for example, in the case of the defence sector, just as the Germans do, as I say to Mr Buma in response to his question on this subject. On the basis of individual signals, we then decide that someone cannot go there because of all kinds of behavior. So drawing up such a list is simply not possible because such organisations are not recognised as such. So I have to discourage that motion for practical reasons. I shall now turn to Mr Klein's motion for a resolution. 339. The observation and consideration contained in this motion are very general, which is why I cannot really do very much with it. However, if I overlook it now and look purely at the request made to the government, I can say that I cannot, of course, oppose what is stated in that request, namely to continue to defend the principles of freedom of our rule of law. So, in that sense, I'd say judge room. I would like to say that it would be very helpful if Mr Klein were to delete the 'confirming' and the 'considerable'. This was my response to the motions I was going to deal with. I will now give you the floor, Mr President, to give the Minister of V and J and then the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment the floor for their response to the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u264	I now give the floor to the Minister of V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u265	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Klaver's clarifying question as a result of what I promised him. I have promised him that I will have an investigation into what is possible to apply compulsion and urge to deradicalise young people and that I will inform the Chamber accordingly. In doing so, I will look at all aspects so that one way or another we can respond to Mr Klaver's widely shared idea that we must do everything we can to deradicalise young people who are radicalising where possible. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Segers, who has been co-signed by several members of the Chamber. This motion calls on the government to provide structural guarantees to the National Police against radicalisation and terrorism. Let me point out that the fight against radicalisation and terrorism is not only fought by the National Police but actually by all the institutions, services and organisations we have in the Netherlands, in particular the municipalities, the NCTV and the youth and neighbourhood workers. The National Police are an important part of that. I therefore see this motion as a support for policy. I leave the vote to the Chamber, and I will also implement it in accordance with the policy that we already have in place on this point. I shall then turn to the motion on part No. Mr Zijlstra, co-signed by Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u266	Mr Segers has another question on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u267	Yeah, 'cause it was really fast. The Minister actually says that it is already taking place and that our motion confirms the existing practice. However, I do not think that is the case. Several experts have told us that they are dealing with changing people, who then have terrorism in their pockets and then not. The motion asks: siege it to people who are structurally and permanently working on it, make them experts within the National Police and ensure that it is secured in that way. That's the motion's request. I hope the Minister will implement the motion in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u268	That's how I understood the motion. I have indicated that this is not just about the experts in the National Police, but also about the whole field around it. This cooperation is essential and is our success, as far as we can talk about it, but this aspect is certainly part of it. So that's how I understood the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Zijlstra, who has been co-signed by Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Van der Staaij, once again calls on Mr Zijlstra to criminalise the voluntary stay on territory controlled by a terrorist organisation, except for exceptions for journalists, for example. That is actually the same motion as the motion by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Oskam, which led the previous Minister of Security and Justice to investigate the possibility of making voluntary residence a criminal offence. As I then informed the Chamber in the progress report, the researchers of the WODC have found that such a penalty breach encounters a number of very serious legal objections and obstacles. In short, the criminalisation would not be specific enough and would not be based on unlawful acts. As a result, the functioning for citizens is not sufficiently foreseeable and therefore the expectation is justified that it will not last in the end. The legal provision would therefore not work. I also stated in the progress report that, on the basis of the results of the investigation, I saw no reason to carry out further research into the desirability of such criminalisation. The Administrative Measures Act provides for the possibility of imposing an area ban, as well as a reporting obligation and an exit ban to protect national security. Those three can be enforced under criminal law. They achieve the same goal but by other means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u269	We still see a gap for people coming back from Syria and have no legal means to do so. We want to create it. We know exactly how that goes. When the question is asked whether it is possible, you almost always get a list of problems that make something impossible, especially when it comes to lawyers. In my view, the signal must be that it is possible; we will therefore simply put the motion to the vote. It should not be asked whether it can be done, but it should be instructed to ensure that it can be done. If at the end of the journey we have reversed everything and there is no hole, we will hear it back from the Minister. I hear far too often the objections that exist and that there is a problem here and there. We are dealing with a very different problem. We are dealing with terrorism, with the attack on our democracy, and we must ensure that we choose and try to use all the means available. In fact, Mr Samsom's motion is based on the same principle: ensuring that we use all the instruments. This has to be done here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u270	I fully understand Mr Zijlstra's appeal. In the first term, I said that this is also the government's starting point. If there's anything we can do, we have to do it. Then the motion came. It has been adopted and is being implemented. Moreover, I would like to leave the analysis of how lawyers think to Mr Zijlstra. I believe that Mr Buma is also a lawyer and saw him nod. I understand there's a shared thought about how lawyers think. The most important point, of course, is that if someone has been in the terrorist areas, he may be a member of a terrorist organisation and that is punishable in the Netherlands. He may have committed crimes, and that is a long time ago in the Netherlands. What is left and what is actually covered here is that category of people who have done something demonstrable or unproven. It's the people in that category that we want to punish. The WODC says about this, after research, because my predecessor also thought this was a sympathetic thought, that it is not enough to get to work on it. If I go on the basis of that examination of the Council of State and say that we are going to do so, in accordance with Mr Zijlstra's request, I know what the operative part of the Council of State will be. Mr Zijlstra will understand that too. In addition, I also expect a discussion to arise in the First Chamber, of which I am not entirely sure what the outcome will be. If Mr Zijlstra, supported by the Chamber, says "Minister, just do it! I'll be the minister who won't refuse. However, I must advise against this motion, because I think that I will then be sent on the road with an order which probably will not be able to be brought to a successful conclusion, however much I may wish for it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u271	The latter is very good. If the fear of a negative operative part of the Council of State were to cause us not to do certain things, I believe that the government has put forward legislative proposals which share the same fears. I liked that, because the government is looking for the edges. This is a suit from the same sheet. This kind of argument should not be used by the Minister to get rid of the motion, because he does it himself, with our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u272	Mr Zijlstra is absolutely right. I noticed afterwards that it also says something about the opportunities in the First Chamber. In addition, the question arises as to what is the usefulness and necessity of this motion given the other legislative measures already in place and the measures still to be taken. I'm dissuading the motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. Mr Samsom and Mr Zijlstra asked the government to give greater priority to the prosecution of inciting hatred, discrimination and violence to combat radicalisation and terrorism and to consult the Public Prosecutor's Office in the near future. I'd be happy to. I'd like to discuss these issues with the D.A.'s office. An important measure of the success of our policy, criminal enforcement, will also be the so-called context case that is currently under way. I share the urgency of the Chamber. The police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are putting all possible energy into these aspects. If this motion is held, I'll be happy to use her as backup for my consultation with the D.A.'s office. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 334 sees in a broad sense the guarantee of the number of district agents in the Netherlands and the role and position of them. Part of the motion is the same as the motion tabled by Mr Oskam, with broad support from the Chamber, during the debate on the National Police. That motion has been passed. I said then that I will carry out that motion because it is a legal obligation to raise the number of district agents and enable them to do their job properly. I have indicated that I will do so, taking into account the agreements reached with participation and the unions. I can't refuse these appointments unilaterally. I consider this motion to be a policy support and leave it to the House to decide. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). A motion was tabled calling on the government to adopt an integrated action programme on legal extremism, so that both extremes could be combated. I think it is a good thing that there is also attention in the Chamber to right-wing extremism, but it would not be good if left-wing extremism were forgotten. We also have animal rights activism or extremistism. And there may be several extremisms that could be identified in the Netherlands. None of them are so large that they justify a separate action programme. They all have the attention of the government, as shown by the recent Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, in which both right- and left-wing extremists have been explicitly addressed. There is therefore no reason for what is being asked in this motion. The measures in the Integrated Approach Action Programme Jihadism are one-to-one applicable to left- and right-wing extremists. That's why I don't recommend the motion. I come to Mr Bontes' motion on item No. 338, which calls on the government to refuse access to our country at all times to preachers of violence. That's policy support. Violence preachers are denied access to our country if they have applied for visas and made statements that are contrary to the standards and values in the Netherlands. It is going to be a problem, and I have explained this to the Chamber more often if the person concerned already has access to a Schengen country. I have taken action on that problem. I have raised this in Europe. It was discussed first with a small group and then with all the Member States. By means of bilateral agreements on the exchange of information on such preachers, Schengen will also try to deny such preachers access to our country and to remove them from Schengen. Moreover, anyone who commits a criminal offence, even if you are a preacher of violence, will in principle be prosecuted in the Netherlands for that offence. The motion therefore supports policy and I leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u273	Mr. Chairman. With Mr Segers' motion and Mr Samsom's co-submission to item No. 331 the government is asked to give priority to investment in an effective approach to radicalisation by professionals working in the neighbourhoods themselves, following Utrecht's example. I'm gonna have to take a look at the petitioner's interpretation of the motion. We are talking about the use of resources. I think we are talking about the means we use to prevent this. The motion first states that Utrecht is an example. Further on, it says that something must be done in accordance with Utrecht's example. The strength of our approach is precisely that local approaches are developed in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Utrecht that you want to support. Our means of reinforcement are promised precisely to these municipalities, but after reviewing the plans. We do not want a blueprint, nor a Utrecht blueprint, even though I agree with the author that it is a good example. There's something in the recitals about neighborhood agents. On this point, I refer to the comments made by my colleague in the field of security and justice. They will be dealt with in greater detail next week when his budget is discussed. I have seen the first proposer nod a number of times in my interpretation. Then I see the motion as supporting policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u274	I'd like to do it verbally, too. I can live well with the Minister's comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u275	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u276	I propose that we vote in five minutes on the motion of censure on item No. 328. The other motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
