ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. How much more unsafe does this Minister of Security want to make the Netherlands? It is obvious: this minister ensures insecurity in the streets, in the stations, in the shops, in every place where people come together in this country. A fact: Muslim terrorists come back here under a false name. Another fact: The Dutch consulate in Istanbul has given ten Muslim terrorists returning from the so-called Islamic State a laissez passer. The passport was taken there and they could simply return home via the Dutch consulate in Istanbul. A convicted Muslim terrorist, as it was in the newspaper this morning, is running around in Syria cheerfully, while here the prosecution was cheering about his conviction. And that while the bird had been flying for months! A farce. Has the Minister himself been actively informed of these facts? Does the Minister see the circle, which I just mentioned, of increasing insecurity? Muslim terrorists laugh at the Netherlands, even though some of them were even born here. They hate the Netherlands, they hate our values and standards, they hate the free West. Especially they laugh at the minister in the middle of his face. And we're not talking about pussies. No, we're talking about tough, tough terrorists playing in the Champions League of Islam. Terrorism expert Edwin Bakker says: "The Netherlands will not be safer if they stay here." And that's exactly what the PVV has always said: don't keep them here. That whole integral approach jihadism of this cabinet I have the piece with me, but I won't show it... is a wash nose. I have a number of questions about that. Does this minister still have control over the safety of the Netherlands, or is it getting a little too much for him? Does he finally see, and that is the most important question, that Muslim terrorists do not belong in the Netherlands and is he prepared to reverse his policy? It has to be: Muslim terrorists out and never back, instead of what the minister is doing now, namely keeping Muslim terrorists here and never letting them out. That makes the Netherlands more unsafe. Is the Minister prepared to bang convicted Muslim terrorists out of the country for good after serving their sentence and guard our own borders? And if he doesn't, why doesn't he want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr De Graaf for his questions. I can answer his questions briefly. He asked about the direction we conduct in relation to the safety of the Netherlands. The answer to that is yes, we are doing so with a strong policy that is well-defined, including in the integrated action programme jihadism. The second question was whether I am prepared to adjust the policy. The answer to that is no. We are prepared to continue to strengthen policy day by day on the principles we have set out. These are the points raised in the questions put by Mr De Graaf. This means reducing radicalisation, reducing the breeding ground for radicalisation, preventing exit and tackling returners. That is also in the framework we have indicated. As regards the case-law which prompted Mr De Graaf to ask these questions, I can also say that laissez-passers have indeed been issued, in accordance with normal policy. I do not recognize myself in the number mentioned. A rapid inventory results in a number that is less than the ten mentioned in the press. It is also right that a laissez-passer is given, because this gives a short obligation to the person who gets it to actually travel back to the Netherlands. There will then be a stand-by on the basis of which the measures that are useful will be taken. I would like to explain that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	What the Minister has just done is to say to the whole of the Netherlands: we are going to go on sleeping, we are going to continue with the tea-rinking policy of Cohen, um, sorry, from Minister Asscher, but that is actually almost the same. What the Minister said, just like the last one, about handing out laissez-passers and keeping it going in the Netherlands: yes, we have noticed that! We've noticed that, and then you'll be convicted for a year and a half and the DA's office cheers, while the bird has flown to Syria! It doesn't work, that policy. This package is tea-drinking, tea-drinking and tea-drinking, but it doesn't say what the tough policy is to make the Netherlands safer. We have also seen internationally what this type of policy, namely passporting and keeping people here, is doing. For example, in Australia, two anti-terrorist agents were shot to death by someone whose passport was taken so that person would stay there. In Canada we have had two attacks: once on agents and once at a parliament building, where even a symbolic agent was shot. We're talking about Nathan Cirillo, who never came home. We have had Britain with a planned attack on Remembrance Day. That is the policy of this Minister of Security and Justice. We can wait for it in the Netherlands if we continue with this policy. For example, rule 12 of the Integral Approach Jihadism states that you should be able to have renewed contact with the family. Fifteen also say that we are keen on travel documents. We've seen it: you'll be convicted for a year and a half and then you'll go back to Syria. The worst of all is that the whole of the Netherlands is full of this kind of Champions League players of Islam, thanks to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	No question has been asked, but there is a reason for me to answer. The policy is firm and correct. At a time when the threat level is substantial and therefore there is a chance of an attack in the Netherlands, it is important that we have the same policy both in France, Belgium, Germany, England, the Netherlands and in the Scandinavian countries. That's what we're doing. This means that we are trying to prevent departures and that we are maintaining returners and doing tailor-made work. That means the D.A.'s office if there's a reason. If there is no reason, there is a multifunctional case consultation, where the necessary measures are taken. I cannot confirm or deny that the reports in the media about the person concerned about whom Mr De Graaf spoke are correct. The person concerned was first convicted by the court. The D.A. didn't settle for that. It went on appeal and won. In the meantime, the person concerned had served his sentence. So he was free to go and stand wherever he wanted. Those are the facts at the moment. I can't confirm or deny what's in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Prime Minister recently said in the Chamber: the AIVD has enough people and resources to keep an eye on jihadists. Now we have Omar H. That's not just a jihadist, but someone whose judge said he's deadly dangerous. The state's attorney's office is trying everything to get him into prison. The bird has now flown to Syria or Iraq. At least he's gone. I have two questions for the Minister. First of all, what are the Prime Minister's words worth? Did he just keep a story here? Has he tried to pin something on us and is there not enough people and resources to keep an eye on jihadists? Secondly, what is the government going to do now? The Prime Minister also said that if it turns out that there are not enough people and resources at the AIVD, then we are going to invest. Omar H., a very important jihadist, has now flown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	You really need to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	The AIVD couldn't stop him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	You really need to ask a question, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	So how much more money are we going to invest in the AIVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	Firstly, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the municipalities and the services are now able to do their job. Secondly, we are following it day by day. We are not in favour of any change in the policy. That is what we have agreed internationally. We are convinced that this is important for the security of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	We have heard the Minister say: I do not recognize myself in the media that ten passports have been issued; they are fewer. He literally said that. And when people come back, according to the Minister, there are apparently fewer than ten positions. So I would very much like to know from the Minister how many people have been held up or detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	We never make any announcements about individual situations such as those mentioned here. I said that, of course, we did a brief inventory at the relevant consulate in Istanbul and it is clearly less. In addition, the policy and action of the services is that every returner is maintained. It will then determine what happens to the person concerned and what the follow-up will be. There may be reason for the prosecution to take criminal action. It may also otherwise bring with it customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	The Minister has made a statement: there is sufficient capacity in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the services. Concerns about the capacity of the AIVD have been raised repeatedly from the Chamber. Mr Van Raak asked a very specific question. Then such a general answer is not enough. The first best test case for the services shows that people who are really a danger to our safety can just escape and are not being watched. What does this say about the capacity of the services? What does it say about their capacity when many more people come back from Syria and many more people need to be watched?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	As such, it doesn't have to say much. Let me confirm once again what the D.A.'s office says: we can neither confirm nor deny that what is in the paper is correct. I think that's important to me to say. In addition, we believe that there is now sufficient capacity for services. It is not just the services that do their job. The Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the municipalities also deal with these matters of jihadism. We'll be in touch about that every day. That is what I can say to Mr Segers in honour and conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	I'd like to ask the Minister an extra question about taking away passports. That's what happens to prevent young people from travelling out. How effective is that? After all, we have seen in the very recent past that this does not actually seem to be so effective. Does an alert actually mean you can't leave Schiphol? Does an alert on a passport or taking a passport mean that you cannot travel via Brussels or otherwise? How is it now guaranteed at national and international level that the taking of travel documents actually means that you cannot travel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	Of course, it's not an absolute guarantee. Mr Recourt knows that too. However, taking passports makes it more complicated to travel for those who want to, especially for foreign fighters. They're listed in the BOLO. They are entered in the passport alert register, including at the external borders and beyond. It is of course not waterproof, because we also know that the identity card makes it possible to travel up to and including Turkey. I have legislation on this in preparation. It is also a possibility that we also have legislation in preparation to make this possible in conjunction with reporting obligations and other administrative measures. Of course, it can also happen with an illegal passport or with a false passport. You can also cross borders illegally. That's it. But it is an instrument that we find effective as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
