ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the initiators, Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer, and their advisers, Dirk Slieker, Hugo ten Zijthoff, Evert Jan Slootweg, David van Dis and the Cees Rensen chair. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance, who is here in his role as advisor to the Chamber. We did the first term of office last week. We are now ready for the first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. In our response, we will address the following issues: the more general comments and questions raised by the Court, the general rules and the process we are working on, the specific regulations and the merger risks, the supervision costs, the information provision and the start-up costs. Before we go into that, I would like to take a brief look back at the process. A few years ago, my former colleague Ad Koppejan started to draw attention to credit unions in this Chamber. He has tabled both an amendment and a motion. The Ministry of Economic Affairs then started work to further facilitate the umbrella of credit unions, so that this new way of working and lending for and by entrepreneurs could be launched. The cabinet has indicated that it wants to work with this and so does the CDA. At some point my colleague Eddy van Hijum and I said: we are going to write a note. We discussed them in the House of Representatives. It has been very widely welcomed. We are grateful to the Chamber for that. In the meantime, colleague Van Hijum is active as a deputy in Overijssel. So he can't deal with this law any further. I was just visiting him this morning. He wished us good luck today and hopes that the law will restore credit. I then asked my colleague, Mr Nijboer, to join me in guiding the law through both chambers, because he was very active from the outset, enthusiastic about the law and at an earlier stage had already said that he could appreciate the law with approval. I would like to thank everyone who makes this possible: employees, officials of the Ministry and of DNB, other advisors, not to mention the credit unions that are already starting or are about to start, and the entrepreneurs who put their souls and salvation into this and who give us their feedback from the ground up. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its contribution in the first term. The applicants and all parties share the concerns about lending, the importance of lending for SMEs in the Netherlands and the concerns about how difficult this is. How difficult are these companies getting funding? The proposers hope and believe that credit unions can contribute to increased funding opportunities for SMEs and thus create more jobs and growth. A very brief example of this is the following. We were in Groningen the other day. Work capital was provided there. It was only a credit of €20,000, but that meant two new jobs. We need these jobs very much at the moment. The proposers are very charmed that it is for and by entrepreneurs and that it comes from society itself. If you have a company and you want to help someone because you think he is a good entrepreneur, you can best finance it through your own e.g. right now. But then you run the risk to that credit, too. Hence the demand from society: give us an opportunity to spread that risk more widely. The authors shared Mrs De Vries' comment from the VVD Group. It states that funding is likely to increase in the near future. We can see that, too. Part of it may come from a bank, from its own funds, from family who want to invest money in it, from the credit union or from another source. The proposers see credit unions as a good opportunity to obtain credit, and they also consider the guidance "the common union" and the dense coaching that is on it to be very important, although it is not an exclusive solution for SMEs either. We need all forms of financing for our business. The PVV asks what a credit union is and how abuse is prevented. This group is not here at the moment, but I will answer the questions. They are members' organisations. These members are companies that take a risk together and share the return. They do this in a cooperative. Does this mean that the title credit union is protected? No. Anyone can call himself a credit union, but should not engage in credit union activities, because then DNB can intervene in malpractices. When we talk about credit unions, of course, credit unions are already active. Those credit unions are mediation right now. Bakker A, for example, needs funding and baker B has the money for that funding. That's happening right now. Credit unions can also attract and invest in infinite money. This infinite money is called "perpetuals" with a beautiful word. It is not really attractive for companies to give perpetuals to a credit union at the moment. Can an SME fund or a decentralised government also finance a credit union? The answer is yes, you can. These financiers will then have to comply with the corporate model, so that they will never get more than 10% of the voting rights within the legislative proposal. This will prevent the greater financier from gaining too much control and the cooperative nature of the credit union would be lost. The VVD has asked if it should not be more ambitious, with more space. Ambition appeals to me. The conversations with the industry show that this is a good start. We consciously choose to regulate things in lower regulation, precisely in order to maintain flexibility. You're gonna have to change the laws again and again. This is a new development and we really want to give it room for manoeuvre. In the future, you could look at this enlargement, if that is what is needed. For now, we think it is a good balance between the different interests. Why are the credit unions not already successful? This is a question from the PVV. This is actually because they are not allowed to attract and lend money yet. It's as simple as that. The moment this law is through this Chamber and later also through the Upper Chamber, it can really happen. We are confident that this will happen. The concept is still in its infancy. With this law, we can really make it possible. I will continue with the process, the regulation in general. Almost all political groups asked for the follow-up to this bill. If we are going to accept it later, if the Chamber wants to allow credit for and by entrepreneurs, it will go to the First Chamber. We hope, of course, that it will be adopted by the Upper House, preferably before the summer. An exception to the European Commission's Capital Requirements Directive should then be requested in Brussels. It's up to the Minister to supervise that. The petitioners call on the Minister to speed this up. The consent could come soon, because this does not require a legislative path in Europe. In informal discussions, Eddy van Hijum and I noticed last year that the European Commission has a very constructive attitude. That is not so strange either, because Brussels, like us, wants more jobs to be created and companies to be able to get funding again to make employment possible. The VVD has asked whether the chosen borders are necessary to obtain an exemption from the European Commission. No, they're not necessary. At the same time, the form of credit unions in each country is different. This is also based on the specific legislation in that country. That is why it cannot be said that any borders that apply in other countries should or could also apply in the Netherlands. With us it is also very specific for and by entrepreneurs. Mr Nijboer will look more closely at the specific reasons why the proposers have opted for certain limits. Then I'll come to the information. The proposers initially opted for a regime where the burden of supervision and the number of rules are as low as possible. There is a desire in the Chamber among almost all parties to at least make it clear to the lenders that there are risks to them from the money they lend to a credit union. The proposers believe that the existing legislation provides sufficient safeguards for this. A warning sign for credit unions below the EUR 10 million limit would be a very good idea. This will have to be included in the exemption scheme. What does that mean in concrete terms? This means, for example, that a credit union on its website writes that there are risks involved. It should therefore be explicitly made clear to the investors that there is no supervision below EUR 10 million and that the deposit guarantee scheme does not apply. Moreover, the deposit guarantee scheme does not apply to credit unions above EUR 10 million, but there is supervision. The umbrella credit union organisations have directives and inform promoters of credit unions that they should also comply with them. Once you are a member of such an umbrella organisation, you really join it. Credit unions that really want to grow will already take into account, in their growth path, what exists beyond that 10 million-dollar threshold of supervision. We therefore expect them to respond to this in their organisation and to deal with it professionally. In addition, the credit union is already a form of risk spreading. An entrepreneur can also lend his money directly to one other entrepreneur. There is no legislation in this area, but there is potentially a great deal of risk. However, taking risks is part of entrepreneurship. This risk is already shared in a credit union. Do we dare to accept that something goes wrong? My answer to this question from D66 is: yes, that is just an essential part of entrepreneurial risk. That means that as a petitioner and legislator we say: you get freedom; do something good with it, but don't knock on the door to anyone else when things go wrong. How do we prevent cowboys from participating? The cooperative model has already incorporated this whole supervision to a significant extent. You're a cooperative and you have a common union. That band says you're gonna keep each other to yourself. That's how we're gonna have to do it. We also consider it important to ensure that there can never be more than 10% to one specific lender. We think that we can reduce risks in a number of cases, but we can never rule them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	I'm a little worried about that 10 million-dollar stakeout. We all remember the debacle at Palm Invest. Many investors who had invested €50,000 thought they would be supervised by the AFM. That turned out not to be the case later. A credit union that wants to reach 20, 50 million to be covered by that supervision is under 10 million in the transition and is therefore not subject to supervision. How could you arrange for the transition phase from no supervision to supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	It is very important that the umbrella organisations already have guidelines for this, especially in order to have professionalism in credit unions. Many of the people who are now working on credit unions are people with a certain background. On the weekend I spoke to an entrepreneur in Assen who is in the process of establishing a credit union. There is also a former entrepreneur who had his own audit firm. There's always a banker. So it is often very professionally decorated. That is also the guarantee: they look closely at how they are going to set it up, how they can do it prudently. As the PVV probably knows, the beauty of credit unions is that you are much closer to the borrower by coaching and the common union. So there's less chance of something going wrong than a bank. This is evident from all sorts of figures. The default rate is really significantly lower. That's because everyone's closer to it. One of the credit unions just told me: we recently financed a flower shop, but the members of our credit union also want to see how the flower shop is going and so they all go there for a while, when they are there, to buy a flower for home. So it's all much closer together to a credit union, which I think makes it possible to overlook this risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	The crucial question is: who decides whether that flower shop gets a credit or not? How's that taken care of? Is the potential florist a boyfriend of anyone's? Is there a florist on that street yet? You also do not want everyone, every member who has inserted something into the credit union, to interfere with the question of whether or not that florist should receive a credit. To what extent is there no protection at all? No surveillance is not protection. Have the proposers not also considered an enlightened regime of supervision to see if such lending is all properly and reliably taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	If you're an entrepreneur and you put your money in something, then you want that money back at some point, preferably with return, because otherwise you went into stock or something. That is very important. Why is an entrepreneur going to put his money in a credit union? That's because he's involved in his industry or his environment, so he's involved in a regional credit union. And if you want to finance the fourth bakery in your hometown, for example, you will get concentration risks, Mr Nijboer, and you will know for yourself: this may be a bit too much and then I won't get my money back and I don't have my return either. The very healthy farmers' understanding of financing will really count. I have every confidence that it will work that way. Very often they are also people with, for example, a banking background. There is often a very nice mix in the boards of credit unions. This is also advised by the umbrella bodies for this purpose. Those who say, "Watch this, watch it." They also have a point of contact to seek advice. I think that whole mix should guarantee that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is a special time for this Parliament to exercise its oldest right in practice since 1814: to be a co-legislator and to approve or reject laws. At that time it was called: to give a recitation to the prince. Now it is done with advice from the Minister, in this case the Minister of Finance. It is remarkable that we are allowed to do this in practice here, and that I myself am allowed to do so as a Member of Parliament. I would particularly like to thank those who have done a great deal of work on this. Mrs Mulder has already thanked the support. I'd like to join that. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Koppejan and Mr Van Hijum and Mrs Mulder herself, who have done a great deal of work to get this bill to be dealt with in the first place. Of course, it still has to be adopted by the Chamber. I also thank you for giving me the opportunity to finance it... I say 'finance'! Yes, I am already in the financial debate! There are three reasons why I consider it very important that this law be passed by the Chamber. First of all, Dutch SMEs are far too dependent on banks. If things are bad in a country in the financial sector and when banks are poor, entrepreneurs suffer. If they have more alternatives, such as credit unions, that helps. The proposers do not have the illusion that credit unions alone solve the financing problems of SMEs. This also contributes to the financing of SMEs, and that is the second argument to be taken into account in a more diverse financing of SMEs. That is far too dependent on banks alone. Eventually, financing isn't the main objective of investing more and creating more jobs. All parties in this Chamber agree. The third reason is that initiatives are supported by society. That is a supporting force and I like to do it with an opposition party like the CDA. It's a force that binds PvdA and CDA. You can see that credit unions are emerging, but there is no legal framework for them. It's got a pinch on every side of it. With this law, we are trying to create, for something that is emerging and is already going on abroad, a new development where legislation is always a bit behind schedule, a law tailored to what is needed in society, capable of creating jobs and making SMEs stronger. It's very nice to be able to do that. I will go into the three blocks on which I will answer. The chosen boundaries, which have been the subject of much discussion in the Chamber, supervision costs and start-up costs. I'll start with the chosen boundaries. Several parties have paid close attention to the limits of solvency and concentration risk, the 2.5% and the 10%. These percentages are, of course, always somewhat arbitrary. Why not 9% or 11%, why not 2% or 3%? On the left side of the Chamber, at SP and PvdA, you will hear questions about whether the 2.5% that can be lent out is too risky. On the other side of the Chamber, you hear: isn't that too tight, shouldn't there be much more room for a credit union to provide some larger loans? Mr Koolmees of D66 sits in between and outlines the pros and cons and the risks of both choices. I would like to explain why the proposers believe that the borders chosen are sensible limits. A lot of attention has been paid to the risk of concentration. That's two things. First of all, the concentration risk for a credit union is that a large part of the portfolio is lent to one company. The company's falling down, and the credit union's in trouble. This is a concentration risk that also exists in banks. In the case of banks, the regulation allows a maximum of 2.5% of the balance sheet to be lent to one company. The proposers have chosen to follow 2.5% of the banks, despite the scope they want to leave to credit unions. That's a limited risk. The other reason for concentration risks is the characteristics of a credit union itself. You're either in a region or in a sector that puts you at extra risk. As a result, you actually have more risk than you would have on average with a credit application. We think this is right. For this reason, we have opted for a solvency risk of 10%, much higher than for banks, where it is 3% with an increase of 4%. I took part in the discussions in the Chamber with interest. A higher buffer has been chosen here. If once a credit can no longer be repaid by an entrepreneur, you have a damage of up to 2.5% on the balance sheet, but because you have chosen an overall buffer of 10%, that is a reasonably thought-out ratio. That is why we have chosen this line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	I have a question for you. A credit union gives its first credit from day forward. At that point, your evictions are 100% with one debtor. Then you don't meet the standard. Do you have to start in one go with at least 40 credits or how?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	No, that's not the case. You're covered by these demands if you're between $10 million and $100 million. If you set up a credit union of 12 million all at once, that would indeed be the case. But that's not the way it's gonna work in practice. On the contrary, we have deliberately chosen to enable an ingrowth model of credit unions to reach 10 million. They're outside these harsh rules. That is what Mr Van Dijck's interruption has just been about. If you have a size of 10 million, these requirements apply. I think that's appropriate, because you have to start somewhere and you don't start with 40 credits. That is precisely why we are presenting this to the Chamber. Moreover, the Chamber does not agree to these specific limits today or next week, but hopefully all this will be decided by the Minister at a later date. That is understandable, because there was a lot of discussion about what should be regulated in lower legislation and what should be regulated in higher legislation. For this reason, the Court has been given some guidance on what is envisaged in the drafting of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr Nijboer makes a comparison between banks and credit unions. I do not think that comparison is very happy, because I think that these are very different institutions. He compares the percentages with the 10% and the 4% we ask of the banks. And yet he says that the credit union, like the banks, can only lend 2.5% to one entrepreneur or group of entrepreneurs. I think this is a limp, because the 10% and the 4% are absolutely not comparable. Moreover, a bank has a much larger balance sheet and so 2.5% is soon a substantial amount. I really wonder why this percentage cannot be raised and why such high risks are seen in it, whereas the solvency ratio for credit unions is still 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	That's a fair question. This is linked to the risk of concentration. They are bigger with credit unions than with banks, because you are in the same sector or in the same region. In an economy, it is often the case that things are going well or that an entire sector is not doing so well. If you were to go through the substantive reasoning of banks one-on-one, you would actually have to choose a lower percentage than that 2.5. However, we said with the Chamber that a credit union is something other than a bank and that we want to give it room for manoeuvre. That is why, despite the high risk of concentration, we have decided to apply the same limits. That was the consideration of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	But the buffers are much higher. The document states all the time that there is a cooperative within a credit union with and supervision of entrepreneurs. So there are entrepreneurs watching. If that is the reasoning in the bill, why is it not acted upon and why is it not simply given to these credit unions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	The buffers are higher, but that also has to do with the other nature of credit unions. Mrs De Vries rightly says that a bank does not, of course, have 40 loans on the balance sheet. But a bank that has 40 inland waterway loans on its balance sheet and has a buffer of only 3% is badly off at these times. That's a reason. Another reason is that 10% is unambiguous. Entrepreneurs understand that percentage. The existing credit unions have indicated that they can work well with this. So it is not something that will cause a lot of problems in practice. There is a concentration risk because it is one sector after all. Furthermore, 10% is unambiguous. This law is intended to help entrepreneurs gain credit and the credit union is intended for entrepreneurs and funded by entrepreneurs. A 10% buffer is understandable; everyone understands that and it is also easy to explain. All in all, we have chosen to do so. We have also considered weighted buffers and I know what to choose, but a 10% buffer is simply clear, workable, reasonable and prudent enough. So it is in itself a reasonable buffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	I understand Mr Nijboer's reasoning. I wonder if there's some kind of double lock on it. You do have a solvency ratio of 10. Of course, that is much higher than with banks. You have a greater concentration risk, because often it is one sector. You have 10% and 2.5% now. Couldn't you create a little space in the mix of those two for companies that are growing? Because one problem that we often hear, including in SMEs, is that the start-up phase is good, but there is no capital available to grow. Isn't there a danger that you'll be obstructing your growth through that double lock?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	Two types of concentration risk have been identified. There are two criteria for this reason, and I do not think that this is the right word for it, so that there is also a little certainty for the entrepreneurs who invest in it that the credit union will remain in place. Mr Van Dijck pointed that out just now when he wondered if anyone would get their money back. For example, if you lend to five companies and one goes down, you lose 20%, if the loans are at least the same size. So there must be some basis. Of course, it only applies from 10 million; that is a certain size. Mr Koolmees' second question was whether you are not preventing SMEs from growing. In itself, it is advisable to find a mix in the credit facilities for SMEs as well. Credit unions can be a supplement............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So it is not at all unwise for you to finance part of the bank if you finance part of the credit union. I would welcome that. As Mrs Mulder pointed out in the first term, this is, of course, not excluded at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	Sure, I think that's wise and logical. But what if you have a 50 million-dollar credit union? That would be a pretty big one in this law. You can then up to 1.25 million guilders... euros. Sorry, I lent last night's debate in my head to one party. Mr Nijboer talks about inland waterway vessels. Is it enough body to really help entrepreneurs? Or are they going to remain far too small, which means that companies are not able to continue to grow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	We are talking about framework legislation here. We do not rule out the fact that in three or five years' time, when credit unions are a major success in the Netherlands, an AMvB is being looked at and the relationships are being looked at. That is why it also happens in the case of lower legislation and we do not ask the Chamber about this, many questions have been asked to set everything up now. It is a new development that we want to support. At this stage, you can see that credit unions often provide relatively small loans. It is true that if, in Mr Koolmees' example of 50 million, you have a solvency of 5 million, you cannot have losses of 3 or 4 million on the balance sheet. That's the other side of the coin. Then you should put the buffers higher than the limits that we are giving the Minister to choose. I also hear noises from the Chamber, for example from Mrs De Vries, whether it is not on the high side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	My question follows on from Mr Koolmees' question. With a credit union of 20 million you can give an entrepreneur a maximum of five tons. Isn't that also the problem in the Netherlands? Credit unions must serve small entrepreneurs. Banks do not want to participate in this, which means that we have a high rejection rate. Are the proposers not helping banks instead of entrepreneurs with this measure? I have a second point. We have Qredits. There you can borrow up to one and a half tons. Applicants are hindering credit unions to borrow larger amounts from other entrepreneurs. I don't understand why they want to hold on to that 2.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	Once again, next week the Chamber does not agree, because this is a general measure of governance that still needs to be worked out. But I do think there is a ratio behind putting a limit on the risks of a credit union. Mr Groot has called for a great deal of attention to be paid to this in the first place. Under 10 million there is an ingrowth path that does not yet apply. These can also be substantial amounts. Of course, in the SME financing mix, there is no dependence on a credit union alone. Often a bank only wants to finance certain loans and does not do so for other purposes. Perhaps a credit union can do that. And you need a certain level of protection for the investors of capital. That is what the solvency requirements are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	I understand the solvency requirement, but it's money from the people of the cooperative, from the credit union. I understand that Mr Nijboer wants to offer protection, but I see this as an obstacle for entrepreneurs who want to continue to grow. You're not gonna give it a chance. You give the seed capital, but if the entrepreneur comes back and says he wants to grow, you can't help him, because you're bound by rules. Then you have to say, "Go to the bank."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	We have a 10% solvency requirement and a maximum risk of 2.5% in the event of the bankruptcy of companies. You need to find some kind of relationship in that. You can theoretically increase that 2.5% to 10%, but if one falls over, your credit union will fall over. So that's not a healthy relationship. We are considering the 2.5% and the 10%, but it is up to the Minister to determine the ratio in the case of General Measure of Management when the law is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	Something was just said between the lines. Mr Nijboer said that he would welcome the fact that banks would come to terms with a credit union. But what status does the credit of a credit union vis-à-vis the bank have? It should not be the case that banks are the preferred lenders and the credit union is the subordinated creditor with the highest risk at the back of the line. Did you think about that, too? Mr Nijboer clearly chose not a risk-weighted capital requirement but a general one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	Each loan has its own terms, with a bank, but also with a credit union. A credit union will also impose conditions on the credit. A credit union may also impose conditions on the collateral or otherwise. That is really up to the credit union itself. We do not lay that down in a law or in an AMvB, we really allow it to grow in the market. The credit unions know their sector well. What does it matter if you want to be a healthy company? The right conditions must be laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	Are you not afraid that if the 2.5% were to work, the 2.5% would be granted as a subordinated loan, while the rest would have to be raised from the bank as a preferential loan? The risk of a company failing is then ultimately the credit union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	This presupposes that entrepreneurs do not care if they issue subordinated loans. It's possible. They can say that the return outweighs it. They can find this appropriate for the sector and a good response to investment needs. But of course, it could be the other way around. It is really up to credit unions themselves to set the conditions appropriately. Many entrepreneurs have difficulties with banks and the conditions that are laid down there. They therefore know fairly well which conditions are appropriate, which conditions are risky or not risky. It's the entrepreneurs themselves who put their money in it. They do that for the other entrepreneurs, but it's their own money. So they do reflect on the conditions that they lay down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	I also have a question about the percentage. In the note on the report, I did not find the answer to a question from the Christian Union Group entirely clear. That group asked for a more detailed explanation of that 10%. The proposers call it robust. I understand that very well, especially since I find Mr Nijboer's reasoning on concentration risks and the counterweight to be very plausible, but why 10%?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	We have also looked at what is common abroad. 10% is not unusual there. This is without prejudice to the fact that it is always arbitrary. It should be a little related to the maximum amount of loans from one party. You have to be able to have one party falling over. That's the 2.5%. With that 10% and the 2.5% as the maximum risk on the loan portfolio, we consider the ratio to be sound and manageable. If Mrs Gesthuizen says it should be 11% or 9%, then I cannot give a conclusive scientific response, except that 10% is not unusual abroad. Credit unions have already developed or at least been incorporated into legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	I also think that is important because a number of questions have just come from the Chamber about a different mix. I understand that this is not the proposal on which we are going to vote and that there is some discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	It is up to the Minister to make the AMvB and to ask the Chamber whether or not to ask for veils. Having heard you, I can very well imagine. I have tried to argue why we chose this relationship. I hear different sounds from different sides as well. You ask whether it is prudent enough, but the VVD whether it is not too pinching and whether it is not better to go the other way. We have tried to find the wise center, but of course it is up to the Chamber to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	I expected Mr Nijboer to say something about the limit of 10 million and the limit of 10 million. Why are there rules and supervision according to the proposers? What do we do that for? In my view, the answer to that question is crucial to determine where the limit should be in this case. I say 'in this case', because it is something that is done by and for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	The reason why there is supervision is to prevent abuse. For example, it has been pointed out by the Chamber that we must avoid involving people who are actually unqualified. That's why we've included a fitness test in the law. Supervision is necessary because of the risks associated with the capital invested. We want to ensure some manageability, because the Banking Act does not prohibit anyone from lending money and managing savings for nothing. If we didn't, there could be abuse. That's a very harsh law. We are now making a law that allows entrepreneurs to borrow from each other, but it must be subject to some supervision in order to prevent abuse and to ensure that suitable people are at the helm of credit unions. These unions manage loans from EUR 10 million to EUR 100 million. All in all, our supervision certainly seems desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr Nijboer is constantly comparing banks and credit unions, but they are really very different bodies. We have rules for banks, because we want to protect consumers and to prevent financial stability from being compromised when a bank threatens to fall. What is Mr Nijboer's and Mrs Mulder's views on the risks to financial stability in the Netherlands if we decided to raise the border to 25 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	It is not a risk to financial stability if a credit union of EUR 20 or 25 million falls. So the answer to that is no. Of course, it is not the case that credit unions can be set up at the moment. For this, constructions have been devised with perpetual loans: you then step in, but you cannot sell shares, because we have prohibited that by law. So it is not just about savings and systemic risks. Entrepreneurs are simply forbidden to form a credit union in the way that our proposal allows. That, of course, is why we brought this bill before the Chamber. An ingrowth model is provided. Under 10 million there is therefore more freedom, but when it comes to larger amounts, we would like to see people who are fit and have no history of financial malpractice. People need to be able to trust that good people are at the helm. Furthermore, there is some solvency in this legislation, because it is healthy for credit unions. An entrepreneur who joins a credit union, when the law has been passed by the Chamber, must know that he will not lose his money immediately if it turns out that there is nothing wrong with that credit union. That is why we have set a number of prudent rules that fit entrepreneurs and therefore have not been implemented too far. It is really framework legislation; several of Mrs De Vries' colleagues have rightly pointed that out. A lot of questions have rightly been asked about the costs of supervision. €20,000 per credit union over 10 million is the DNB Directive. To give an indication: a small bank has supervisory costs of at least €40,000. The applicants understand the Court's comments on both the AFM and DNB. It has rightly been asked whether supervisory costs should not be kept as low as possible. Of course that is not up to us; it is up to DNB and the AFM, but we as proposers agree. We point out at this point, during this legal process, that both the AFM and DNB have consistently said that there should be more competition for banks, that there should be less dependence on bank lending and that there should be more credit opportunities. We welcome that, as it is said. Credit unions are explicitly mentioned, for example in the Dutch Bank's Financial Stability Overview. The Netherlands Bank is also in favour of encouraging this. The applicants understand that the estimate used by DNB is prudent. I understand the Court in such a way that only the costs should be covered and those costs should be kept as low as possible so that the entry barriers are as limited as possible. The authors very much share that view of the Chamber. Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP raised the question of whether there is sufficient capacity to monitor. We checked it out. Credit unions are expected to require some capacity from supervisors, but not disproportionate capacity. It would therefore be sufficiently and adequately monitored if the legislative proposal were to be adopted. Mr Groot asked the PvdA about the start-up costs associated with credit unions. Could they not be co-financed or pre-financed? Of course, that is not up to the proposers but to the Chamber and the Cabinet. However, the proposers see credit unions as a desirable social development that can be supported. For example, a credit facility to provide start-up costs would be conceivable for both Mrs Mulder and me, but it is of course up to the Minister, partly in relation to the budgetary treatment later on, whether there is room for this. We hope that this will have dealt with the questions raised by the Court in the first place. But I still see some members on the interrupting microphones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	Sure. I saw Mr Van Dijck jump out of his chair first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	I have two questions about the costs of supervision; I thought there would be more to this. Why has a fixed amount been chosen? Whether you have a credit union of 10 million or one of 100 million seems to me to be a big deal for supervision, but both pay the same amount. My second question was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	Answer these first!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yeah, first of all, this question. They haven't chosen yet. An indication has been given of the amount of supervisory costs incurred by the Netherlands Bank. As I have just said, this is a prudent overall estimate. The authors agree with the sentiments of the Chamber and, through this debate and in the further legal process, state that these costs should be as minimal as possible. So no relationship has yet been chosen between size on the one hand and that kind of thing on the other. However, since the Chamber has requested this, we have examined what he thinks at DNB. DNB is thinking of up to €20,000. That's an indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	That's what I understood. However, the question is why you should choose a fixed amount and not a balance sheet-related amount. After all, I can imagine that a credit union with 100 million would require more supervision than a credit union just above 10 million. My second question is then whether and to what extent these costs are covered by the Dutch Bank. Or does the Dutch Bank, when supervising a credit union of 100 million, charge more than €20,000, and transfer the rest to either the minister or the other sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	Those are good questions. The AMvB isn't ready yet. In relation to the AMvB, there may be cases where more monitoring efforts need to be made or less. However, on the basis of the framework law, the Dutch Bank has made a prudent assessment: what will the supervisory costs be on average about? No decision has yet been taken on the scale of the balance sheet, the exact level of the supervisory costs and the manner in which the AMvB relates to them. That decision will be taken by DNB; that is also up to DNB. I understand that the supervisory costs should not exceed the actual costs incurred. Well, according to good practice, that's true, but I still have to take a swing at the arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	I have another question about the provision of information. Mrs Mulder has already mentioned this very briefly. As I said in my first term, the law states that the information made available must be correct, clear and not misleading. However, I believe that this applies only to those who receive credit. Is this the same arrangement for the person who invests credit? Does a credit union have to meet the same requirements in relation to the information for the person who invests the credit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	In my opinion, Mrs Mulder has already said that it must be made known to the investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mrs Mulder has indeed mentioned the warning sign. There it is said that this is not under the supervision of AFM or DNB. However, I am concerned that the quality of the information is regulated for those who receive credit, but not for those who make credit available. I can imagine that for those cases you should include the same general term, 'correct, clear and not misleading' for the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	The warning sign, a somewhat domestic term, makes it clear that the credit union is not under supervision. It makes that clear to both parties, the borrower and the creditor. Misdirection and such are not permitted by law. Such matters are generally prohibited in the Netherlands, as well as providing false information and attracting money under pretenses. For such cases we may fall back on both Article 4:19 and 4:20 of the Wft and the Civil Code. On this basis, reasonableness, fairness and not giving wrong information to people are, of course, already valid. The same applies to entrepreneurs themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	I asked for the role of the banks in the first term. My proposal was that these double the amounts lent by the credit unions. I asked what the Minister and the initiators thought about that. If a credit union in the view of the proposers can borrow up to about €500,000, the banks would borrow EUR 1 million. Have the initiators thought about that? Do they have any ideas to do that? When I hear their proposal in this way, I see that the credit unions are going to help small SMEs and that what is happening up there is going to be left to the banks again. And at the moment, a lot of SMEs are being rejected. My specific question therefore concerns the role of the banks and the idea that they double the credit given by the credit unions. What does Mr Nijboer think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	The proposers see it very well happening that, and would consider it desirable if, the financing of SMEs comes from several sources. In this way, you are not dependent on one bank and so you have no problems with your lending if things go wrong there, something that we often see lately. A credit union complements this. It may be the only financier, but it may also be a supplement. We did not want to accept the first-term suggestion made by Mr Öztürk that banks should be obliged, legally or otherwise, to provide loans. This seems to us to be a major and undesirable political intervention in the role of banks in society. Forceing banks to lend €200,000 if a credit union lends €100,000 is not what we want. I do not even know whether that would be legally possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	If banks will not take their social responsibility knowingly, I think the government should intervene. If you launch the credit unions in the way you propose, I am afraid of the effect of all the regulations. Let's say 25 entrepreneurs get together. They have 25 million euros to borrow. You will then determine from here, from The Hague, the maximum amount they can lend. If you think like that, if you want to give the banks freedom, I think you should also give credit unions, those 25 entrepreneurs, the freedom to decide for themselves how high the amount they want to give to the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	That's clear. I would like to make a comment on the purpose of the law. Of course, we place limits on solvency and on the risks that exist. We have just discussed this in detail, and many Members of Parliament have intervened on this point. However, what we are proposing is not yet possible. It's legally forbidden now. With this legislative proposal, we are therefore allowing new loans for SMEs, so that they can invest, hire people to make those investments profitable and create jobs. There is occasionally a suggestion that there is a legislative proposal with all kinds of limitations. No, we are making new initiatives possible, although within responsible limits. That is a fundamentally different focus from that of all kinds of obstacles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	We are indeed having a discussion here about something that is not there yet and about how that would work. Of course, that's pretty tricky. Would the proposers consider making a statement? That is, of course, very easy for draftsmen, because they can leave that to the Minister. Will they undertake to check in three years' time whether the border is about right, whether the information on this matter was questions from the Court of Justice to the lenders is considered adequate and whether supervision has not become too costly? Those are the three important facts. If, in three years' time, they had a kind of letter sent to the Chamber by the cabinet that is sitting there, then perhaps Mr Nijboer himself will be there, because I think he likes it very much, then at that time we can have a discussion on the basis of the experience with the credit unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	I have already indicated in the first instance that this legislation, with this framework law, really makes new initiatives possible. We have deliberately chosen a lot of debate on this subject in the first term too, for a framework law in which General Measure of Management can respond more precisely to the current situation. That is a conscious choice, especially because something new and hopefully something bigger is coming about. It seems to me very wise and right that laws should be evaluated, especially laws that respond to new issues. I do not expect any different either, because the AMvB is also mentioned when it is ready or introduced by the Minister. I know the Chamber by now enough to know that attention will undoubtedly be paid to it in the Chamber. I think it is wise to evaluate whether this happens in three years, four years or two years, or when there are major changes. Civil society usually also reports when a little too much is involved. It certainly seems wise to me, so we will gladly accept Mr Omtzig's suggestion and indeed pass it on to the present advisor, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	The good thing is that you can now promise and that the Minister must do it. If I were you, I'd use that generously. I assume that this is a commitment to send that to the Chamber in three years' time. That's after the next election, so you need to see who's in it. I hear you say something about AMvBs. In the first term, the CDA Group asked you and the Minister of Finance when these AMvBs are about ready and can be presented here. Is there a time limit within which we can look at them so that we can look at them here? Or is the Minister going to answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	As initiators, we defend the bill. We have already given a pretty big look at a suggestion of what an AMvB might look like, on the most crucial points of the legislation up to the supervisory costs of a law that is not yet a law and AMvBs that are not yet AMvBs. This is a question I really need to pass on to the Minister. You know us as initiators. It can't be fast enough, but it can be careful enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	In my first term, I pointed out the difference I read between the opinions of the Netherlands Bank and the Authority for the Financial Markets and the limits they saw as desirable and the maximum number of members of a credit union that they saw as desirable and the ones for which the proposers have finally chosen in their legislative proposal. I have not yet heard any further explanations on this matter. Why have the letters received in the consultation round not also been submitted to the Chamber? I don't think they're part of the law. It would have helped me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	On the last point, Mrs Gesthuizen is right. I know that the AFM has given explicit permission to make the letter public. The letter from DNB didn't say that, but we'll check it out. We will send the letters before the vote, if DNB agrees with the wider distribution. Mrs Gesthuizen knows the consultation procedures of the Chamber: it may be confidential or public. The AFM explicitly states: share it. We're still checking with DNB, but that's what I expect. As far as the substantive limits are concerned, I also owe an answer to Mrs Gesthuizen. The AFM has indeed argued for lower limits, lower than the 10 million. She pleaded for 5 million. That is why there is another 0.5 million in a note on the report. One of the spokesmen pointed that out. So that must be 1 million, because the minimum solvency is 10% of 10 million. That 0.5 million came from an earlier version. That's how these amounts related to each other. Of course, there have been other parties as well. Today, in Het Financieele Dagblad, there was what scientists or people from a consultant's office think. There are initiators, credit unions themselves, who would have wished for even higher limits than the ones eventually chosen. In the end, like the AFM and DNB, we consider this bill to be workable. A border must always be chosen. The AFM has indeed suggested that that limit be lower than 10 million. In the end, we have chosen 10 million. However, there were also other parties, Mrs De Vries, who today pointed out that they were in favour of making that limit even higher. We thought that this was a reasonable balance, also in view of the international boundaries imposed on credit unions and lightened supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u54	I don't know exactly what's in those letters. I hope that we will indeed be able to receive them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u55	That's what I promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u56	I would, however, suggest to the authors that, if it appears that there are major differences when we put the legislative proposal and the opinions of the supervisors side by side, they should send a brief note to the Chamber explaining why they have made a certain choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u57	The explanation is now. In this first period, we have also entered into a second period of time in detail on the limits which we consider sensible. Moreover, we are not setting the limits now, at least the solvency requirements. That's what happens at AMvB. We are, of course, setting the limit of 10 million. Above, however, it is all AMvB and it is up to the Minister. It is merely the interpretation of the law as the initiators consider well thought out. We are right to discuss this extensively with all of us. Mrs Gesthuizen therefore received the appreciation from us. We believe that the limits are wise and well thought out, and that they are well balanced. It is a good start, although this will have to be done, evaluated and perhaps adapted in the long term. This also fits with new developments in time. That is the view of the authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u58	The Chamber will have the opportunity to form its own opinion on this, because it will still have the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u59	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u60	Perhaps it has been discussed in Mrs Mulder's contribution, I was a little late, but I would have liked to have asked here about the improper use of credit unions. To what extent can a credit union act as a mediator, in addition to providing credit, can it also establish contact between an investor and an SME? In my first term, I also drew attention to the role of the banks. To what extent can an SME fund, such as the Entrepreneurial Orange Capital Fund of ING or the SME financing of ABN AMRO or Robeco, qualify as a credit union and thus make use of this legislation and lightened supervision? Can these funds take the actual lending out of the balance sheet and go through life as a credit union? To what extent can municipalities and provinces grant grants to credit unions? I also read that municipalities like it, that they are participating and that they are depositing €500,000 into the treasury of the credit union. That is not really what a credit union is meant for. Perhaps Mr Nijboer can deal with these three aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u61	These are three rather extensive questions which have already been addressed by Mrs Mulder in this first period. Yes, decent governments are also allowed to participate. No, a credit union is very precisely defined as a cooperative, in a region or in an industry. Get around the law? No, we are laying down the framework of the law very clearly and there is also an AMvB that is maintained. That is, in short, the answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u62	This has put an end to the contribution of the initiators in the first term. I now invite the Minister, as an advisor to the Chamber, to share his view with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for letting me act as an advisor. My compliments also to the initiators for the many work that has been done. I got to do it once myself. I know how wonderful it is to make and defend an initiative law. In my view, credit unions offer a good and good opportunity to break the dependence on banking finance. We have often talked about how one-sided our financing is, especially for small businesses, and about the need for diversification and competition. That is why we are actively committed and we are very happy to support the initiators in getting credit unions off the ground. The cabinet, in particular the Minister of EZ, supported the umbrella organisations with grants. We have now started discussions with the European Commission on the necessary exceptions in the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD). I will come back to that in a moment. I can be quite brief because the initiators have already said a lot, so I will go to the specific questions that have been asked to me. I, too, have been asked many questions about the precise limits of exemption. I support the principle of obtaining an exemption for the smallest credit unions. The smaller the involvement, the greater our assumption. In a group of more limited sizes, entrepreneurs are more closely involved, each other's business operations, the choices to be made, the risks they run and so on. This relates well to an exemption from supervision. In the case of larger credit unions, this involvement and influence is directly less. As the credit union is larger, it becomes less. The need for external supervision will then become greater and more desirable. So I would find it unwise to set the limit higher than the 10 million that the initiators see for themselves after consultation with the Ministry and the supervisors. 10 million are already a considerable number of entrepreneurs and loans. In addition, the European Commission is looking at the level of the exemption limit, as this is an exception to the CRD. I'll get back to you on that. Then I come to the implementation of supervision over 10 million. A number of issues will be dealt with in lower regulation. We are in line with the existing structure of the Wft. There is no more regulation in this than for other banks, insurers and so on. The implementation of the specific rules can be much less complex than for banks and, where justified, also one tooth less. At the same time, supervision must be robust because SME lending is on average relatively risky. For example, the combination of the leverage ratio of 10% and the maximum limit of 2,5% exposure per loan stems from the risk of lending to SMEs. Mr Nijboer spoke about this in detail. As Mr Nijboer said, there are two types of concentration risk. The first type of concentration risk is that in a credit union, entrepreneurs in the same sector often finance each other. At least that's our image. If there are problems in this sector, there can also be a negative impact on others because they have granted credit through the credit union. The second type of concentration risk is that if too much of the money invested is lent to one SME, it will have an immediate and significant impact on the credit union and thus on the entrepreneurs who put their money into it. That is why we have reached a balanced judgment and opted for a minimum leverage ratio of 10%. The question was: why is it much higher than for banks? You have to realise that a small bank that would only provide SME credit would also be close to 10%. For SME loans, the standard model has a relatively high risk weight. That's what it's got to do with. Then I come to the suggested limit of 2.5% maximum exposure on one SME, which we want to include in lower regulation. I believe that this is justified in order to prevent a limited number of bankruptcies from already endangering the credit union. Questions have been asked about the provision of information. I agree with the answers already given by the initiators. Entrepreneurs who invest money must also be adequately informed. Proper, clear and non-misleading information must be provided. This will be monitored and rightly so. Small credit unions exempted from supervision will have to communicate this: The sign to be placed at the entrance. I agree with that suggestion and will take her on board. Mr Groot has asked whether we should not come up with a start-up subsidy. I don't know if that's necessary, I say in all honesty. At least we are now taking an important step in making it possible. I think that is a crucial step in getting credit unions off the ground. Financial support has already been provided from the cabinet to the umbrella organisations for the further development of this form of funding. These grants were also intended to reduce the start-up costs of different credit unions. I have not provided for any further subsidy scheme at this time. This also applies to Mr Kamp, who should make that possible in his budget. The grant that has been or has been committed to date to the umbrella organisations amounts to €400,000. I would like to make one more point about the relationship with Brussels. It is possible to make an exception under the CRD III in an implementing act. Some countries already have them, but they have been given them explicitly from the outset for credit unions, because they already had their own legal regimes for credit unions. I believe that it concerns Ireland, the UK and Poland in particular, but there are more. That route is no longer open to us, because it really stems from the fact that, in the development of this European legislation, these countries already had their own legislation and had agreed to it from the outset. The route that is open to us is to obtain exceptions under the CRD III in an adapted light regime. This requires an implementing act. It must go through a committee in which all the Member States are represented, but it is a lighter procedure than a full European legislation. I had a conversation with Commissioner Hill yesterday. He is in principle in favour of it. He comes from England, recognizes the phenomenon and is very much in favour of diversification in the financial sector. He also felt that we should diversify into legislation and regulation and offer much more "suitable work" where possible. As soon as the legislation is completed, we will continue with the Commission. We will therefore probe the underlying regulation, the AMvB, at the Commission to see what it will look like. She wants to know exactly what it's gonna look like. What is the leverage ratio? What are the limits? How big can it get? How small is the non-supervised credit union? These are very important questions for the Commission. I say that also because the Chamber will be very interested in what comes out next. If we have a result that is acceptable to the Commission, I do not know if I have much room to allow further extensions to the Chamber afterwards. I'm just saying it in all honesty. We really need the cooperation of the Commission in order to achieve this implementation act. I think that the type of thresholds, ceilings and so on that we are now proposing together should be very promising for the Commission. I'm careful to see if this should be much wider. In substance, we do not think it should be wider. I think these are the right boundaries. We will really have to coordinate it with the Commission. The Chamber knows that, but I'm just gonna say it anyway just in case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u64	Are there separate rules for concentration risk in the UK at local credit unions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u65	I don't have that information ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u66	It is of course good to know what is common in other countries and to look at exceptions. If there are exceptions, it can also become an exception for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u67	I'll see if I can give you that information in a second term, if it comes. Otherwise, I could provide written information on regimes in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u68	Now that the Minister is going back to Brussels with the hat in his hand to make it possible for us to help SMEs, I am a little afraid that it may take a very long time and that it will be very bureaucratic and that we will be standing here in five years' time and the Minister will say: I am working on Brussels. In a letter of October 2013, the Minister writes that he is talking to Brussels. That was a year and a half ago. That should have been tapped by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u69	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u70	No, you can't. I also understand why that is not possible, because the AMvB has not yet been filled in. It is, however, a question of England, Ireland and Poland simply doing it. Apparently, they've stipulated that "at the beginning of." I think it is such nonsense that we should go all the way now as if it were a new phenomenon, while other countries have been applying it for years. We just need to catch the English regime, copy-pastes and do it. Then let Brussels say that it is not allowed, because then they must also go to England, Ireland and Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u71	I'm not sure you know what the English regime is if you tell me to take it and take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u73	I'm sorry, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u74	I ask the Minister to answer the question that has already been asked and not to answer what is being discussed in the meantime outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u75	I spoke through the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u76	But the question wasn't asked via the microphone. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u77	Because of your intervention, I don't even know what the question was anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u78	Copy-pastes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u79	It is simply a fact that we cannot get the Commission's approval until we can submit the proposal to the Commission. For that, we must first debate with the Chamber to see if there is any support for it. Then we go to the Commission to say how we want to do it, with these percentages, ceilings and so on. Then the Commission will certainly look at what is happening in other countries, but it will also look at prudential aspects, at what it considers to be justified. The willingness is there. We don't have to create a problem that doesn't exist at all. Mr Van Dijck thinks that Brussels should not interfere with anything at all. That's the difference between him and me. I do not think we are going to run into a problem here, but we will have to talk to them and we will have to convince them that we have thought this through. I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u80	My great concern lies in the fact that it may take years to enter that bureaucratic mill in Brussels. I note with the authors a very practical and pragmatic attitude in the sense of 'keep it simple'; the mbk now has a problem, which we now have to grasp. That's very good, but I expect the same institution from the Minister. The Minister can, of course, say that Poland, England or Ireland have a regime that is best suited to what the proposers have in mind. Let's copy-paste it and enter it. Let us not wait for the approval of Brussels, but let us just do it in the short term and let Brussels say that it is not allowed. Then it is not allowed in Ireland, England or Poland either. Does the Minister understand what I mean by a pragmatic attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u81	I know exactly what you mean. Only, your reasoning is not correct. She's not going up either. That is because you do not recognise the legislative powers of the European Commission and of Europe. When this regulation was drawn up, it was said that the regime is recognised by countries that already have a regime for it. There's a hook in the law. There is no such thing for all other countries. This means that we now need a separate exemption, exception under the CRD. The conversation about that is going on. The Commission knows that this is what we are doing. As soon as this House debate and the debate in the First Chamber are over, we can conclude the discussion in Brussels. Then there will be an implementation act. I can't think of anything more practical than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u82	I kind of share the concern. How long can that take with the implementation act? Is that a matter of months or can it be over for years? Does the Netherlands have any influence on speeding up this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u83	I used that influence yesterday in my conversation with Commissioner Hill, but it is work that needs to be done. An implementing act must therefore be created. It needs to be brought into procedure. We'll do it as soon as we can. Mr Groot wants a date from me, but I cannot give it. We do it as soon as possible and put great pressure on it from The Hague. However, the motivation is certainly present with our interlocutors in Brussels. There are a few other points. There was a very specific question about the supervisory costs: why is one amount fixed, irrespective of the size? It is for the time being an estimated amount by the Dutch Bank. So it could get even lower. We'll see what the possibilities are for that. However, it is a well-founded estimate, not just a blow in the air. The rates for continuous supervision shall be set annually by ministerial arrangements. In an earlier debate, I promised Mrs De Vries in particular that we would look at ways of avoiding smaller parties as much as possible. However, that space should be found within categories of supervised institutions. This means that we will achieve a shift from small to large in there. For credit unions this is quite difficult: the small ones are already exempt and there are no very large differences above them, as we expect for the time being. Soon you will be talking about the basic amount that will have to be spent per credit union on supervision. The Netherlands Bank's estimate is that that amount is €20,000. That is why we have not differentiated it further. I am not against that, by the way. We will look into whether this can be done with the Dutch Bank. However, it is already a small amount and, once again, the smaller credit unions are simply exempt. I think I'm done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u84	This put an end to the first term of the applicants and to the Minister for Consultative Affairs. I shall suspend for a moment to discuss with the authors the continuation of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-9.u85	I had to check with the initiators. I have the next proposal, in view of the clock. The next debate is scheduled at 7 p.m. on the CPB figures. Yes, Mr Koolmees, at 7 p.m. I think it is already on the schedule from last Friday. Many of the spokesmen and even one of the initiators and the minister are present. There has also been a request for information from the Chamber. Mrs Gesthuizen asked for this from the initiators and Mr Koolmees asked the Minister for it. My proposal is that we ask the initiators and the Minister to send the information to the Chamber as soon as possible, so that it can still be involved in a possible second term. Then I'll try to schedule that second term as soon as possible.
