ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. In the Groningen earthquake area, a lot of people damage their homes and there is damage to churches and industrial buildings. That damage must be repaired, well repaired. The north of our country has not only been affected by this absolute earthquake, but has also been severely affected, more than other parts of the country, by the economic crisis. There's unemployment. There is not enough for people to build their own future. It has therefore been repeatedly said in the Chamber that we need to restore confidence in Groningen, that we need to do something more, that we need to step up our efforts and help local entrepreneurs. The Labour Party has therefore also tabled a motion in which we have correctly stated that the work resulting from all damage caused by gas extraction must be carried out wherever possible by Groningers. What's my surprise now? I read in the Dagblad van het Noorden that in that earthquake zone large companies divide the jobs among themselves and that in the consortium of Centrum Secure Wonen the work is divided among Randstade companies instead of Groningen's entrepreneurs being able to work there themselves. One story struck me in particular: a contractor who was not allowed to remove his own chimney from the roof without supervision of a large "renowned" construction company. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to this situation which has now arisen in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Vos spoke about repairing the damage done in Groningen. The image he sketches of it is an incorrect image. There are three possibilities for damage recovery or compensation. The first possibility is: if there is damage, then Centrum Secure Living instructs a contractor to carry out the work to repair the damage. The second option is: the person who has suffered damage gives the contract to the contractor himself and then the account is paid by the Centre Secure Living. The third possibility is: the person who has suffered damage chooses to get money transferred. The latter happens in 70% of cases. So the people who have damage choose to get money. On what they do with that money, I can't see. I estimate that, in most cases, people will have the damage repaired at a time that suits them, perhaps in conjunction with other activities. However, I do not see that at the moment. That's what's being investigated. In the first two options I mentioned, the work is carried out by local contractors in 80% of cases. So in 80% of the cases, both of the assignments that Centrum Secure Living itself gives to a contractor, and of the assignments that those who have suffered damage give to a contractor, after which the account is paid by Centrum Secure Living, the work is done by local contractors. Why isn't it 100%? One reason may be that the persons concerned can choose a contractor either directly or at any time, or say to Safe Living Center: you can have the damage repaired, you can only give the assignment to a contractor, but we would like to have it and that contractor. Then that will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	I would like to know from the Minister how the motion tabled in the Chamber has been implemented to train as many local people as possible and to put them to work to repair the damage. I would also like to know from the Minister when the report will be on the 70% of those who have the damages paid out. Is there any insight into whether this remuneration is actually used for the strengthening of housing? I would also like to know from the Minister whether the large construction companies that receive the assignments are located in Groningen and whether these companies mainly use Groningen staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	I have already indicated that the image that Mr Vos just outlined is not correct. The 70% who chooses to get compensation for the damage is entitled to that right under the Civil Code. Those people are not obliged to repair the damage. They have the right to be compensated for the damage in money. That's what we need to investigate, and that's what's happening right now. I will conclude that investigation as soon as possible and inform the Chamber of Appeal. I can't tell you when that is right now. About the Groningers who are gonna cooperate, here's what I'm gonna say. A qualification system has been set up to ensure that those ordered to repair damage comply with the requirements. A total of some 500 companies are now involved. 400 of these companies come from Groningen and 100 from Friesland and Drenthe. Furthermore, a number of professionals have been brought into the picture during that process. About 2,500 professionals have applied because they want to be involved in this kind of thing. The large contractors from elsewhere in the country are currently mainly depicted in the zero-on-the-meter houses. It is known that there is a tension between rapidly strengthening houses and enabling local people as much as possible. As far as the rapid strengthening of houses is concerned, we have chosen to have 1,650 zero-on-the-meter homes realized through the housing corporations this year. These are major industrial processes set up by the largest contractors with their own factories. Indeed, the big contractors are involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	The Minister now says that 80% of all funds go to regional companies, but that is contrary to the article in the Dagblad van het Noord. I will closely monitor the further reports and keep the Minister on the motion that we have tabled, namely that employment should be promoted in Groningen and that regional construction companies should benefit from all the misery caused by the earthquakes, in the sense that the resulting work should be carried out by them and not by large companies in the Randstad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr Vos has asked me about the damage recovery and I have given my answers aimed at repairing damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	First of all, I would like to say that it is a sign of the importance attached to the situation in Groningen that we are back here today, on the first Chamber day, with Minister Kamp to discuss this. It feels completely familiar, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	I'm glad you've returned safely from the polar bears, Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. I will explain in more detail the danger I have found myself in. The Minister says that 70% of the people themselves decide how they spend the money and which contractor they choose. It is of course a good thing that people have freedom of choice. It is important, however, that we also ensure that there is sufficient information about contractors who can work with innovative solutions and that contractors are trained in all the innovative solutions available, as they can also lead to an increase in the value of the people's homes in Groningen. What can the Minister say about that? Is there sufficient information on this, both for the people who are going to choose a contractor and for the contractors who may be looking for such innovative solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	I've talked about 70%. All I know for sure is that those people didn't choose to have a contractor commissioned by Centrum Safe Living strengthen their home or repair the damage to their home. They also did not choose to appoint a contractor and have the contractor's account paid by Centrum Secure Wonen. No, these people have chosen to just get money transferred to the bank. What they do with that money, I don't know. I have estimates of that, as I have just said, but the investigation is now under way and I will have to wait and see. Contractors have chosen to work with a qualification system co-founded by the contractors themselves. Both companies and professionals have come to the fore. The aim of Centrum Secure Living is to have all the money used to repair damage a positive effect on society in Groningen as a whole. This includes a constructive relationship with the contractors, as described by Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	Of course, it says something when only 30% of the Groningen Centrum Secure Living trusts enough to make it repair the damage. The intention of Mr Vos' question is whether all the money that is now being spent on making homes safer, on infrastructure and on anything related to those earthquakes will also benefit people in the north. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter whether these people live in Drenthe, Friesland or Groningen, but the work shouldn't go to people in the Randstad anymore. Can the Minister at least instruct Hans Alders or make an urgent suggestion that the Chamber would like to see most of the new employment in terms of making roads safer and more earthquake-resistant and repairing damage to people from the wider region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	The public procurement rules apply to infrastructure in general. We are committed to this in the European Union, in the Netherlands and also in Groningen. So we can't just go there and do separate things. That is my answer to the question of infrastructure. In prevention, it is, of course, the intention not only of the Chamber, but also of me, of the Centre for Safe Living and of the National Coordinator Groningen to have as much of the money spent in Groningen as possible a positive effect on the people of Groningen and on the Groningen society. That's our intention. However, it is also my duty to ensure that the safety of the people in their homes and the most necessary preventive measures are quickly measured. I want to strengthen 3,000 houses this year. For a large part of that I choose the form of completely renewed zero-on-the-meter houses. People then get an improved home and no longer have a separate energy bill because the houses are optimally insulated. You can only achieve that in large numbers and with industrial processes, that is well known. These industrial processes have been initiated together with the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	The minister says that many local companies are being deployed, including from Drenthe and Friesland, and that some 2,500 professionals,zzp'ers, are being hired and can be hired. That sounds nice, but that is why I was so surprised about the article and especially about the quote that the Safe Living Centre would have a kind of monopoly position because it has all the strings. This could mean that Centrum Secure Living could create a kind of arbitrariness that would enable companies andzzp'ers to be eliminated. How does the Minister respond to the idea that the Safe Living Centre has a kind of dominant position and therefore there is no level playing field for all entrepreneurs in the north?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	Eventually there is always a client, whether this is the province, the Empire or, in this case, Centrum Secure Living, or, in the past, perhaps the NAM. There is always a client and now the question is who the client is. That client, Centrum Secure Living, we have created ourselves. We have set up honest people under a very capable leadership. In order to monitor this, we have independently monitored it, as was also agreed with the Chamber. This supervision monitors the management and organisation. I believe that we have created the most ideal client for Groningen here. I will monitor the operation of that client, because I believe that this should ultimately prove to be an ideal client.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	If it is a safe contractor, he must therefore also take into account the people who work for the contractors who carry out the work. However, a temporary agency has recently gone bankrupt because it has not been able to take good care of the people. For that we have the Law approach fake constructions. In this case, the municipality of Groningen has been held liable. What guarantees does the Minister have that the Safe Living Centre will not be at risk under the Fake Constructions Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	Centrum Secure Wonen has drawn up a separate qualification system. I have already said that the contractors from the area are involved. Contractors may apply for this qualification system and, if they are recognised, they may receive contracts from the Centre for Safe Living. Professionals can also sign up to carry out work. I have already said that 500 companies and 2,500 professionals have applied. That recognition system is something extra that we introduced in Groningen. It benefits the desire to give as many orders as possible to Groningers and Groningen companies in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. Before proceeding, I shall suspend the sitting so that we can congratulate our new Registrar, Mrs Voss. I'm asking her to sit in front of the chair.
