ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. Thank you for joining us. We have two speakers. The first one just arrived. That is Mr Merkies of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance said this morning about Greece that everything depends on the outcome of the referendum. If a 'yes' vote is taken, the Minister believes that a new emergency programme could be discussed. Then, of course, there were the headlines: "There is no place for Greece in the euro area." And internationally: "No negotiations after no vote." That sketches an image of someone who wants to force a "yes" with doom images. I can't imagine the Minister being happy with that. He still has a chance to make it right. And then, of course, it's what happens when there's a no vote. Is there any talk? I think that's crucial. Can the Minister confirm that? My motion is also about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a referendum will be held on Sunday 5 July among the Greek people;]] [[calls on the Minister, regardless of the outcome of the Greek referendum, to consult the Greek Government in order to reach an agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u3	Mr. Chairman. The coincidence is that I have a motion that is exactly opposite to that of Mr Merkies of the Syrian Party, the SP. The latest news is that according to the IMF, Greece needs around 70 billion until the end of 2018 and a debt cancellation of 55 billion. So we still have an account of 125 billion on top of the 330 billion that the Greeks have already had from the ECB, the IMF and Europe. The PVV wants to prevent more tax money from flowing to this country. We think it's enough. Enough is enough! Hence the call for no further negotiations, regardless of the outcome of the referendum. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that Greece should leave the euro area as soon as possible;]] [[points out that under no circumstances will the Greek Government be renegotiated for additional billions of aid, but that the country should be assisted out of the euro area as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u4	We wait until the Minister has both motions, so he can study them in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u5	Mr. Chairman. The motions are indeed opposed to each other. Mr Merkies' motion states that no matter what happens, an agreement must be reached. In the second motion, which I have not yet read, it says with that reservation: no matter what happens, we should not talk anymore, it is end of practice. Mr. Chairman. I see that Mr Merkies is already trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u6	The Minister is very good at misinterpreting my words. I'm not saying no matter what happens, there's got to be an agreement. I am indeed in favour of an agreement in itself, but the motion states that no matter what happens in the referendum, an agreement must be negotiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u7	That's not in the motion. It says: regardless of the outcome, to enter into consultation with a view to reaching an agreement. That's something else, isn't it? That focuses on the result. Anyway, I'd like to discourage both motions, if I'm allowed to do so at once. I do that because the judgment is first for the Greek people. The Greeks face a great political choice about the future of their country. Both motions actually suggest that this doesn't matter. One motion suggests we just have to keep talking until there's an agreement. The other motion says: it's end of practice; get out. That is, of course, both incorrect. It does matter. It matters if there is a future to make. I really have a different intention than Mr Van Dijck. The Dutch Government also has a different attitude than he does. I would like to make that future possible for Greece in the euro area. The referendum and its political consequences in Greece, which I cannot predict at the moment, must really make that future possible. There will have to be a credible agreement that will lift Greece out of the pit and restore its economic perspective. It will have to be a credible solution for the euro area. The euro area is a community that is very strongly built on rules, agreements and trust in each other and between Member States that these rules and agreements are respected and taken seriously. If that soil disappears under the eurozone, we will be in severe weather. We can and will not allow that. I therefore advise against both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u8	This confirms that this minister is creating a doomsday. I think that's serious. That's also the international news. With this doom sculpture, he in fact frustrates the process. He should have left this to the voters. He shouldn't be sketching scare images. The only question to him was, if no is voted on, to continue talking. He says the door will be closed and he won't talk to the Greeks again. That's creating fear images.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u9	I didn't say that. Let's not go yelling all kinds of things that haven't been said. Greece is still a member of the European Union the day after the referendum. It is still a euro country and still a member of the euro group. Of course we meet again, the day after or two days after. I am not going along with the false image the Greek government is calling upon. That is that all the proposals will be off the table and there will be a much more friendly agreement if the voters vote no. The Greek government must tell the truth to its constituents. Given the situation of the economy, where the banks are located, and the state of government, public sector, tax morals, etc., there is a need for far-reaching action in Greece. That goes for every scenario. The image that is called up, that everything will be okay by itself if one votes but no, and that the nasty measures are then at an end, is a false picture. That has nothing to do with threats. It's just reality. I think voters have the right to have reality before they make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u10	The Minister says that the euro area stands or falls with confidence and the agreements we make with each other. The Greeks have been violating trust for five years, breaching agreements, and failing to keep their promises. The question is how much confidence this minister still has in the Greeks. I wouldn't have trust after five years and 330 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u11	I have a lot of faith in the Greeks. Trust in this government still has the potential to grow. Why? Because the government hasn't taken any serious measures to get Greece back on its feet in the six months she's been in. They have talked a lot about it, and announced a lot about combating tax evasion, fraud, corruption and boyfriend politics. However, six months have passed and there has been no visible change in Greece as a result of this government. The previous governments have taken action. I do not share Mr Van Dijck's analysis. There has been very severe intervention in the budget. There was no other way. When the real figures came up, the deficit in the Greek budget turned out to be more than 15%, as the Chamber knows. There's been some interference. Mr Van Dijck cannot deny this to the previous government. That's what happened. It was also inevitable, given the huge mess in that budget. Reforms have also been implemented. Certainly not all, because the program was never finished. Some things have been postponed. We were far too optimistic about some things, too. Mr Van Dijck himself mentioned the example of privatisations. Of course, we were far too optimistic about how much there would be to privatise. Anyway, we don't have to repeat that debate. You can just make Greece a strong and independent country again. However, this requires far-reaching and difficult choices. Any government that says to its people: trust us, because those difficult choices will not come, fools the people. I'm not gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u12	The Minister focuses only on the last six months and the current government, but I have been doing these debates since May 2010. We are now four governments and the troika has run away ten times because they were angry because they did not keep to the agreements. So that whole process of five years went with rattles and horns and bumps: not cooperating and then cooperating again. 250,000 officials would be fired. I think they're retired or they're rehired. In other words, after spending 330 billion on that country for five years, and after five years of difficult negotiations with the troika and running away, and you name it, I would have no confidence that it will ever be okay with the Greeks and that they will keep to the agreements at all. But this minister continues to have faith, and in that he is just naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u13	Trust doesn't come on its own. It's not gonna happen all of a sudden. Trust must be built up, and that is why we told the Greek Government that we could extend the programme if we agreed on a package of measures needed to complete the programme successfully. Only then would we look further into the future, under that condition. However, that offer is now off the table, because the government has said that we are not prepared to do so. The program's expired. Trust doesn't come on its own. It must be created on the basis of agreements and ownership. That will be the case after the referendum. We will see if we can build that together. I am very motivated to do so; let there be no misunderstanding about that. That is where Mr Van Dijck and I differ greatly. I believe that it is by far a better solution for Greece to keep the euro and stay within the euro area and at the same time, supported by many international and European partners, to put the matter in order. This country can do much better than it shows. It is primarily thanks to the politicians and the many generations of politicians for them, but it can do so much better. I am not prepared to abandon the confidence in the potential of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-33.u14	I thank the Minister for his presence here. Later today we will be voting on the two motions.
