ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, and those who follow this debate in a different way. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Ten speakers have spoken on this subject. The first speaker is Mr Van Haersma Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Two crucial meetings are scheduled this week in Brussels. The eurogroup will meet this afternoon and tomorrow the European Council will meet. The euro area has entered a dangerous phase in the last month. The ECB started the buy-back programme. Shortly afterwards there was the landslide in Greek politics. Meanwhile, France and Italy are making every effort to meet the reform and austerity requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. Still in 2011 the euro crisis was overcome with a lot of art and flying work. Countries and banks that threatened to fall have been saved. However, that rescue operation had a price, namely debts to be paid off and reform and austerity agreements that had to be complied with. However, we can see that the impatience is also increasing. People in the south read about improvement, but they don't see it in their daily lives yet. The Greek electorate chose the radical solution: all fall in, we pay nothing at all and we vote for a party that does not want to pay back. Before that, the ECB made the fatal blunder to make the sentiment that spending money is better than reform into policies. The bank is going to pump 1 140 billion euros into the economy without a single hard reform agreement. The incentive to reform is getting smaller rather than bigger. That is not a sound financial policy, it is irresponsible monetary budgetary policy. It is the most expensive bubble in European history. Why is all this so bad? It is so bad because it concerns the future of the euro and the future of the European financial and economic system. This week is essentially about whether the euro will become a strong Northern European currency in the future, or a southern European inflation currency, a franc or, worse still, a lira.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	I'd like to ask an enlightening question. The ECB shall take certain measures. Mr Buma says that he regrets these measures, because that does not mean that there are any reforms. I fully agree with him on that last point. However, I would like to ask the fundamental question whether Mr Buma thinks that the Dutch Parliament, or any parliament, can say to a bank: you must do otherwise. After all, the ECB is a bank. I am certainly asking this question because Mr Buma is linking it to political measures such as reforms. In doing so, he suggests a political role for a bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	I will come to this point in a moment, but I will now also briefly address it. I am not suggesting a political role for the ECB, but that bank itself chose a political role by opening up the money supply, but not by taking the demands of the Heads of Government first as conditions. So what the ECB is doing is extremely political. Then we can say that we're not talking about that, but what I'm following is that the cabinet can't give voting instructions to the bank president. If we, as politicians, are not to have an opinion on this, then I turn to the question: we must have an opinion on it. 'Cause I'm really convinced this is gonna go wrong. It will be a mistake if the ECB takes measures which are so clearly in the interests of the south and contrary to the interests of the north. That is the pinnacle of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	But I can actually hear Mr Buma formulate his own impotence. You have to be careful with that to suggest that you want to send the bank with that. I am also very curious to see how the cabinet views that. I agree with the part that needs to be reformed. It is incredibly dangerous for Italy and France to go back on their feet. My question is whether Mr Buma is not suggesting too much that he is going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am truly convinced that if the Heads of Government had indicated at an early stage that the means of printing money is not a means that Europe should apply, this would have been a justified statement. Then the ECB understands what they mean and it is not an instruction. It is precisely by not doing it all and by being weak with the reform requirements that we do not forget that Italy and France have been delayed until March; we still have to hear how that goes further........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Two years ago, we had a debate here on whether the money press should be running. That's what the SP was for back then. At that time, all the other groups said that they should not. Now the bank's doing it and I haven't changed my mind. I think it is a bad political tool, and that will be proven. Because printing money has never been a solution. The fact that we have an ECB that goes that way is a danger to my life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	I agree with Mr Van Haersma Buma that as a politician you can simply have an opinion on this. You can radiate that and with it you can do what you want. But another question is whether Mr Van Haersma Buma believes that the mandate should be changed. You could also talk about the ECB's rules of play: what can it decide and what can it not. But Mr Van Haersma Buma will agree with me that an independent central bank is also a very great asset.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	But then I keep saying: an independent, non-political central bank. We cannot influence that, but I can say that I think that the ECB is throwing its own future in this way. 'Cause nobody trusts a bank like that anymore. Yeah, it is in the south, because that's where they see support for turning the money press and then they're gonna see if they're gonna reform. Indeed, political and monetary policy will be intertwined as soon as it is discussed here. My position is that the first articles of the Maastricht Treaty never intended this to happen. My point is that you do not have to change the treaty for that. But that politicians don't even say that, I think it's a step too far. I'm not gonna argue here to cross the bridge and go political, but I'm gonna accuse the bank of doing so. I'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	Then it's a moral profession. That is possible, and I think it is right for politicians to express their views on this issue. But I do not hear Mr Van Haersma Buma saying that the treaty, the powers and the mandate of the bank must be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	No, because I am convinced that if the Heads of Government had previously reformed, things would have been different. Then the ECB wouldn't have smelled its chance. Furthermore, if the Heads of Government had said that a decision such as the printing of money is not part of the European order, this would not have been a change of mandate from the bank or an instruction to the bank, but a very clear signal of how we see Europe. That sound wasn't heard. The same thing happens in Japan, and that's where things go wrong. The Prime Minister, Abe, spends money, doesn't reform anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	... and has also said that it is good that the bank does it. That's when the bank started doing it. If Heads of Government had said it wasn't good, it wouldn't have happened. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	It's kind of a crazy story Mr. Buma keeps. For he says: the ECB sits on the seat of politics by doing monetary expansion. He then said that the ECB should draw conclusions from this by demanding reforms. Then he actually asks the ECB to sit even more on that political chair. It is crazy to say first that the ECB should not sit in the political chair and then encourage the ECB to reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	Incentivising reforms has already been done by the ECB itself. So that's not what I'm saying; that's what the bank did. What I am angry about is that the bank says so, but that reforms are indeed a very political issue. The bank expands the money supply by 60 billion a month and then says: but you need to reform. We all know that France and Italy do not want that and have now been given an additional incentive not to do so. This is why the euro is being thrown out of control. That's the lira. I'd much rather have a guilder than a lire. That was the agreement when we got the euro: we would get a strong euro, not a euro, which every year needed a few zeros to keep its value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	I have heard Mr Buma correctly: he says that the ECB should not sit in the political chair by increasing the money supply. He then actually says that the ECB should sit in the political chair by encouraging reform. Is he actually saying that the ECB should not sit in that political chair either? The ECB should not comment at all on whether or not countries should reform. After all, that is up to politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	I do not think that the bank should encourage countries to reform. The bank has said: we are going to increase the money supply by 60 billion; then we need to reform the countries. That's what was said. That is political, but the ECB should never have done that. There is a need to reform, but the money supply should not be increased. If the ECB wants reforms, it should have been said that we are going to see reforms first and then we are going to increase the money supply. That's right, this is why this is so messed up. Your question proves that the bank is doing something that was customary in southern countries, but what never happened in the Netherlands, Germany and other northern countries, namely: if it gets annoying, we will make the reforms a little less painful and we will repress money. In the end, the euro will be devalued. All those who save will be reduced, but the country will be able to export something. For example, the south has always come through winter; the north has done so through reforms. I look from my right eye and I get so incredibly jealous of the latte macchiato with the chairman. There used to be regular cups of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yeah, being a MP is a tough job, except for the chairman. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	Can we still get an order in the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	This is precisely the problem of the euro: the central bank is doing something good for southern Europe and bad for northern Europe. The question is, of course, what will happen to the independence of the central bank if the northern countries are again and again voted away by the weak southern countries. After all, that has happened again. Germany, Austria, Estonia and the Netherlands were against, but we have nothing to find like the Netherlands and as bank governors, because the southern countries have the majority and vote for it and so this happens. Does Mr Buma agree with me that there should be a more important role, if necessary a veto, for each Member State before such major monetary operations take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	The latter cannot be done, because as a Member State we do not have a veto. The president of the bank is in favour. The Dutch bank president voted against, but my reproach to the bank is that it has allowed it to come to the point where there really is a split between northern and southern bank presidents, which brings that bank to the intersection of the political debate at the moment: are we going to do it south or are we going to do it north? That's my big reproach. Once again, as regards the Heads of Government, I would say that it would not have come to that if they had said at the beginning, before this operation was in place, what the boundaries of politics are for them. By the way, the PVV is now talking about the Nordic countries, but I believe that the PVV, with the politics it wants, with your money publishing and your 'no 3%' is the personification of southern European politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u21	The latter, about the 3%, is not correct, but the point is that the Dutch bank president and the German bank president have no veto and are voted off. Once again, does Mr Buma agree with me that, before such major monetary operations take place, all nineteen euro countries and all the governors of the national banks of each euro country should agree to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u22	No, because I think that the Greeks would have torpedoed a lot of measures, also good ones, in the past. All the demands made to the Greeks in the past would never have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u23	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yeah, I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna have to see where I left off, because I'm not gonna say anything twice. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the coin is slipping through our fingers at a rapid rate. The scenario is that we are going to have a southern European currency. If you used to go on vacation to Italy, you could get a little more lire in your wallet every year. I've got about 1,000 lire at home. When I got it it was worth something of 2.50 guilders, at the end still 1.50 guilders and now nothing at all. The euro must not become a lira. That is also why France and Italy should not be given any further delay, Greece should have kept its agreements and the ECB should not have turned on the money press. Now I can skip a part of my speech because it has already been discussed in the interruptions. If the central bank sits on the seat of politics and thus reaches the intersection of what the political debate is now, North or South, then politics must have an opinion on that too. By not doing so, so by not drawing the limits in advance, this precedent has been created. I have the following questions to the Prime Minister, who is probably wondering if any questions are being asked to him. Oh, yeah, yeah, Not only has the bank president said that we are expanding the money supply by 60 billion a year, but he has already said that if this does not work, he will not conclude that it should not have been, but that he will continue with the buy-back program after 2016. What does the Prime Minister think of continuing to increase the money supply in Europe after 2016? Today the Heads of Government come... I see someone writing in section K, but I do not know whether it is the Minister of Finance or the President of the eurogroup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u25	Someone was talking, too. Please continue, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u26	I think the Finance Minister is writing a note to the President of the Eurogroup on what is happening in the Dutch Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u27	Your time is running!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u28	This afternoon, the eurogroup will meet. I call on the Prime Minister, including the Minister of Finance this afternoon, to keep countries to their commitments. It's not anymore, and it's no less. If the Netherlands does not draw a red line today and tomorrow, the appointments will be stretched tomorrow night. This afternoon, Minister Dijsselbloem will chair the eurogroup, not as Minister of Finance. Is Secretary of State Wiebes on behalf of the Netherlands joining the eurogroup this afternoon? If so, what instruction does he take? I have the following specific questions to the Prime Minister. Is he going, as he said in the media, to keep the Greeks to the agreements? In other words, no debt arrangements, no extension of maturity, no lower interest rates, no less reform, no less cuts or any relaxation. Deal's a deal. Is that what the Prime Minister says? What is the situation for France and Italy? Those countries have postponed until March. Will the Prime Minister demand and ensure that there is no further delay after March? Is he also prepared to ensure that more and more expenditure is not excluded from the 3% standard? The Juncker billions, if I may call them that, are already in danger of being excluded. How's that gonna go? Yesterday on television, the Finance Minister said in the news that he thinks that we should be able to find a financial solution with the Greeks. I can't wait to see how he sees that. We all want that, but what does that mean? What contours does he have in mind? You can't say you think you'll get out if you don't have any idea what that must be. So much for the euro crisis. I see that I am running out of time, but there are still two very important issues that I would like to deal with briefly. The euro crisis is not Europe's only existential problem. Eastern Ukraine is at least as dramatic, because the war increases and threatens peace in Europe. Merkel and Hollande travel city and country, but it is difficult to negotiate with an unpredictable Russia. What is the commitment of the Netherlands tomorrow? Negotiating with Russia without a stick behind the door is extremely difficult and Europe does not have a strong stick. This means, however, that we must be prepared to use the economic weapon further. Is there such willingness? How does the Minister see that tomorrow? In view of the time, I now move on to my final point, the aftermath of the attack in Paris. There was a great deal of connection with the victims and France, but it is now a question of what Europe is going to do. I have a number of questions for the Prime Minister. There is still a major problem with the surveillance of external borders. The southern European countries now bear the burden of this, while the northern European countries will have the will if there is better surveillance of the external borders. Will there be stronger agreements on the surveillance of external borders in particular in southern Europe and towards Turkey and Syria? What concrete measures are being taken in so far as public authorities are required to improve cooperation between intelligence and security services and judicial services? What agreements are actually being made on PNR? In August, we held a debate in which the coalition instructed the cabinet not to agree to PNR agreements. These were my questions. I have to because we're out of macchiato.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. Eastern Ukraine and Athens are two places where the future of Europe is at stake. These are two places where our freedom and prosperity are under pressure, two anchors of European cooperation. These are two developments on which Europe must have an answer, because violating agreements does not fit in with European cooperation and violating national borders at all. This answer will not be easy, but we will be dealt with in the coming decades on what we are doing now in response to these developments. Let me drop the door at once: Greece must keep its commitments. You can choose a new government, but you can't say that earlier agreements are off the table. The fact that other EU countries are left with the fried pears does not fit in with the way we work together in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u30	The VVD had a "130 kilometer-per-hour" moment yesterday, because it was said: if the Greeks do not want to listen, they will just step out of the euro if necessary. That's tough language, but imagine that happens: we're gonna kick them out, they're gonna get out of the euro or they're gonna go bankrupt. How will the Netherlands get its money back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr Klaver is now moving on to as-than-scenarios. As far as I am concerned, Greece is not going out of the euro; as far as I am concerned, Greece is sticking to the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u32	I didn't bring up a "as-then" scenario. The VVD came out yesterday through the chairman of the group saying: they must keep to the agreements, we are not going to talk about anything, there is no negotiating space, or else they will leave the euro if necessary. That is the consequence. If you outline such a scenario, isn't my question to Mr Verheij quite right? How is the Netherlands supposed to get its money? The answer to that question is very simple. Then nothing comes back at all; then we will not get that money back. Is it not wiser to enter into an open dialogue with the Greeks to see how we can get together? I think this is important from the point of view of a social motive, because I believe that we should not leave the Greeks in misery, but it is also economically sensible for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr Klaver tempts me, however, to act as then scenarios by asking what happens if the Greeks do not comply with the agreements. I do not wish to go into that, but since 1956 we have also had the Club of Paris, which also has conditionality and international regulations. So you have all kinds of scenarios, but I don't want to go into them at all. I assume that Greece stands for the agreements we have made on the objectives and on our working methods to keep the euro together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr Verheijen's group chairman, Mr Zijlstra, Mr Rutte's doll, used very big words in the media yesterday, very big words. All agreements must be kept, otherwise Greece will leave the euro area. What's the coincidence? I am most likely to table a motion with exactly the same text. I hope the VVD will support that motion. Can Mr Verheijen respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u35	We have made good use of reading all the motions, including those tabled by Mr Bontes. So we are going to look at what is in that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u36	If I have to estimate it, this is going to remain with big words in the sense of "€1,000 back" and "not a penny to Greece." I estimate that they will be words from the same category as yesterday's: for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u37	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. In my entire career I have never been so corrected by my spokesman, Pieter Omtzigt, if my colleague Zijlstra is now corrected by Mr Verheijen. That means something! Yesterday's scenario of Mr Zijlstra was wiped out by Mr Verheijen. But it was all said and raised yesterday. In my opinion, this scenario was as follows: Greece must keep all its commitments. Mr Verheijen is now saying the same thing. I agree with that, but tomorrow's reality is undoubtedly that there is talk with these Greeks and that the payment period is likely to be extended slightly or that interest rates will be reduced slightly. These are all measures to meet Greece a little bit. Does Mr Verheijen agree with me that none of this can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u39	We made clear agreements in a program. To this we have linked objectives and a working method, together with the troika. For us, these appointments. The programme also stands before us and stands before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u40	This is a bit of a detour, but there should be no change in the programme we have with Greece, or else it should be out of the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u41	Not in terms of objectives. Each country with a programme has the freedom, agreed by the troika, to exchange measures in the programme for other measures with the same result. Every country has that opportunity. Greece has not now chosen to follow that route. It has changed one-sided agreements, it has unilaterally abandoned cooperation with the troika. As far as we are concerned, this is not a passable road. We blame the Greeks for that. The consequences are therefore also for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. I thought, it's now five weeks before the election, so what's going to happen today? I was surprised last night: it was something with the Greeks and something with a hard VVD position. It usually takes a week or six and then everything is different again. I actually missed a red button here: such a bright red button with "we don't do anything with the Greeks."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u43	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u44	This was just to outline the environment in which we find ourselves, otherwise people think that the VVD is really going to keep this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u45	I'd like to ask you a question, because you're standing in front of the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u46	My question is this: is it as black and white as Mr Zijlstra said yesterday, so exactly as they are, and otherwise is the consequence: Greece from the euro area? So my question is: is it so black and white or is Mr Verheij going to come up with something here today and talk about exchanging agreements, the time limit for repayment, the amount of interest? But if he says yes to that, it'll all cost money!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u47	I dispute what Mr Pechtold says, namely that exchanging agreements in the package costs money. Each country has the freedom to exchange for other measures a measure which aims to achieve the same goal and brings about the same effect. Furthermore, it is the agreement that the frameworks of the programme will still be in place; they will be in place today and in the next few weeks as far as the VVD is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u48	That is another nuance: the frameworks stand and one appointment can be exchanged for another. I think that many people in the country have got the feeling that the chairman of the VVD group said: it's exactly this, or get out! Those people could be disappointed again if it turns out that their Prime Minister is going to do something else. So I would like to know exactly: the exchange of agreements, which means that the money will come later or the interest rate will be changed, can there never be another outcome for the European countries that are now financing these debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr Pechtold may need more words than I do, but what he says is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u50	We must send the Finance Minister a message to Europe. He is also the president of the Eurogroup. So that's two-in-one. We know that the Greeks want to talk about other measures and even about adapting the frameworks. Does Mr Verheij say: if there is support in the Chamber, do not even engage in that conversation, because we can never agree to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u51	You say if there's any support in the Chamber. I'm standing here in front of the VVD, not the whole room. I'll tell you what our frameworks are. Our frameworks are the agreements we have made with Greece. I have also heard strong texts from the cabinet in recent days, and I support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u52	But I have also heard the Minister of Finance say that he is assuming that he can find a financial solution. That is a slightly different tone from the VVD here. If there is now a majority in the Chamber to guide the negotiations in Brussels, does Mr Verheij say to the Minister of Finance: you do not even have to negotiate with the Greeks, because the agreements are the agreements? Does he say, in other words, stop it, because it doesn't make any sense to us, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u53	It is always good to keep your head cool and the conversation open, but assuming that we have made appointments and that those appointments are followed. I blame the Greeks for the fact that, the first days after the elections, they were going to reverse unilateral austerity and reforms, stopped privatisations and cancelled cooperation with the troika by means of a press conference. I blame the Greeks. That is the unilateral withdrawal of agreements, and that does not fit in with the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr Verheijen says that it is always good to keep the conversation open. I wonder how open that conversation is when he says at the same time: a deal is a deal, and if you don't keep it, we'll throw you out of the euro. Does Mr Verheijen consider it constructive to make such threats to Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u55	We're not throwing anyone out of the euro. If Greece were to leave the euro in the near future, that would be the choice of Greece itself. They once made mutual agreements on the content of the programme in exchange for support. They'll cancel those appointments unilaterally. Then there's only one consequence. I hope, however, that this will not happen. I hope that Greece will come back to this, just stick to the agreements and stay in the euro area. That's my preferred scenario, but if they don't want to... the ball really is with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u56	I think that Mr Verheijen should have a word with his group chairman, Mr Zijlstra. 'Cause I'm hearing a different story right now. Mr Verheijen says that it is really up to the Greeks themselves whether they are getting out of the euro. That is indeed the case; that is the way we have arranged it. But then you can't speak such threatening language as the VVD did yesterday by saying that if they don't stick to the agreements, we'll throw them out of the euro? That's not constructive to come to a solution, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u57	All I have to do is quote my group chairman, and I am always happy to do so. Mr Zijlstra said that if they do not remain within the framework, the consequences will be for them. He'd rather not see them leave, but that's a real possibility. The ball isn't with us. It's with them. That's not like throwing out. If Greece chooses not to comply with mutually agreed agreements, that is really their choice and their consequences are also for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u58	I am a little concerned about Mr Verheij's text on unilateral agreements. If new, two-sided agreements are made tonight, this could mean that the VVD says: now there are new agreements that have been made internationally and we support them. Let me put the question very simply: is it conceivable that there will be a solution that will cost money compared to the agreements we now have that support the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u59	It is not conceivable to me at the moment that the result could be that our taxpayers and those from other countries should be taken into account, including those from countries which have complied with the agreements in recent years, and that additional money should be asked to help the Greeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u60	Then you're talking about the amount of the interest rate, say 1.5% of the interest rate and the repayment period. This means that there is no extra money per year and that it is not spread over time. It is therefore the cost that we now have for each year booked. That's it, and that's all it's gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yes. It's not necessary either. I see a great deal of opportunities for Greece to meet the objectives of the programme. That's why the conversation has to take place. Other measures can then be redeemed. There is still a great deal to be done in Greece, for example, in the field of taxation, but this has to be accepted by the troika. Then Greece can adhere to the agreements, comply with them, but give them its own content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u62	I wonder how credible the VVD is anymore. Now she says: a deal is a deal. However, I remember Mr Weekers who said in 2010: a deal is a deal; not a penny to Greece; no bail-out; this is how it is agreed and we are not going to support countries financially. Then we transferred 18 billion, 30 billion, 110 billion and 240 billion, and the payment conditions were increasingly stretched. Those were the words of Mr Weekers. In 2012 it was Mr Rutte with the red button. Now the VVD tries to convince the voter for the third time that an appointment is an appointment and she says: until here and no further and otherwise the Greeks will go out of the euro. How credible is that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u63	As far as we are concerned, that is very credible. You know why we finally made the choice in 2010 with conviction to start the programme. That was in our own best interest. The risk of contagion for our banks and pension funds, as well as for other countries in the euro area, was too great. That is why we made a rational assessment at the time. The situation is completely different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u64	The situation is no different at all. Soon you will come up with the story that it is in our interest for the Greeks to stay in the euro area and for us to relax the payment conditions and extend the period of time. The troika has already been sent home. This means that the troika must come back and that all agreements, measures and cuts must be put back on the table before the VVD agrees. And if they don't, they're gonna get out. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u65	Yes. The troika, the cooperation of the three institutions, is also secured in the ESM. He's got to go back and supervise. At that time, we promised an aid package. Again, that was in our own interest, because the risk of contamination was very high. The Troika must be monitored, because we are confident that it will be able to assess whether the reforms are actually being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u66	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All the interruptions have already enabled me to make a large part of my speech. There is still confusion about what the Greeks want. The message to Greece in this debate is clear to me as well as to other spokesmen......................................................................................................................................................... In the first three weeks we have seen a travelling circus and we have heard many stories and views from Greece. However, we have not yet heard any real concrete plans. We have seen unilateral actions, but that does not fit in with our cooperation. I would like to mention four reasons why it is important for Greece to keep to its commitments. I am thinking of countries such as Portugal, Ireland and Spain, which have complied well with the agreements and have taken difficult measures. That's what they're reaping the fruits of. I am also thinking of countries in Eastern and Central Europe, which, at the end of the 1990s and at the beginning of this century, have had to make huge reforms and are now reaping the benefits of them. They've shown that they can. It is also important for our taxpayers. I just said it. Finally, it is also important for Greece itself. I believe that, in the long term, Greece will benefit from strong reforms, from a reform of its tax system, from its public administration and from its financial system. For these reasons, it is important that we send that clear message to Greece. As I said, fortunately, I have heard clear texts from both Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Dijsselbloem over the last few days, but also from many other Heads of Government and Finance Ministers in Europe. That line has our support. I would ask the Cabinet to take up its commitment again today. What does the Cabinet expect from the discussions today and tomorrow? What does it expect of the process in the coming weeks, including towards 28 February, when the current programme expires? Does the government now have any indication of the precise ultimate objective of the Greek Government? How does the Greek Government see it? Mr. Chairman. So far Greece and now I'm going to the other fireplace, to Ukraine. Today, the main players in the crisis in eastern Ukraine are returning to the table in Minsk. Merkel, Germany, has decided to lead this process and the reluctance we have seen in Germany over the past few decades seems to be off the table; I think this is positive. Yet there is no reason for optimism. I think we're all worried about what's going on out there. Looking at the past few months and in particular the last few weeks, there is little reason for optimism. Even if an agreement were to be reached today in Minsk, which I very much hope will, then it will only be a matter of waiting to see what the outcome will be. Minsk 1 also had clear objectives and clear principles and agreements which were subsequently violated by Russia, by Mr Putin. It is becoming increasingly clear that Putin is actually putting pressure on and trying to undermine the international system that we have with each other. Perhaps it is one of the greatest geopolitical challenges of our time how to deal with it. It is important that we continue to press for a diplomatic solution, that we remain in conversation but are not reluctant and do not hesitate to announce new sanctions if necessary. We must continue to destabilize Eastern Ukraine in Russia. Yesterday we saw images of a new attack in Kramatorsk with great consequences, but last night we also saw cautiously positive reports about a possible agreement of principle, a cease-fire, ahead of the talks today. How does the Cabinet, the Prime Minister, estimate the chances of a real agreement today? If there is an agreement, is there any positive indication that it is actually being respected? The Foreign Affairs Council has now extended the sanctions against individuals but also prepared new sanctions. At what point will these sanctions become active? Is that even after today if the talks fail unexpectedly? Is there any chance that the Heads of Government will decide tomorrow? How does the Prime Minister see the force field in Europe? If there is a major challenge for Europe itself, it is that it is keeping things together internally and ensuring that we, as Europe, are united towards Russia, that the Greeks do not jump out, that Eastern Europe does not want to go beyond Western Europe and that it sends a clear signal to NATO as to what Europe expects and wants from Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u68	I am pleased that Mr Verheijen is also talking about this diplomatic solution, and I believe that sanctions are needed as a means of exerting pressure. What we do see, however, is that the sanctions that have been agreed so far do not have a very significant impact on the Russian economy; it is going a lot less well there, but that is mainly due to the low price of oil. Is the VVD prepared to proceed with further sanctions and also trade sanctions? It is not just about excluding individuals but also about trade sanctions that can also affect the Netherlands and other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u69	It's hard to say at this level. We are in favour of looking also at new sanctions if no progress is made and if Russia again fails to comply with the agreements. The most important thing is that sanctions are instrumental, so that they also achieve the goal they aim to achieve. We must therefore always look at what new sanctions can be effective. There is no point in hurting Russia and ourselves economically if it does not move Russia. We must devise sanctions that also put pressure on the system in Russia from the bottom up, from companies and citizens. For the time being, we can see that the pain threshold in Russia and, at least, in Putin is much higher than ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u70	This was an open door. I had a rather concrete question. The sanctions we have now agreed on are fine in themselves and are aimed at Putin's posse, but the effectiveness of these sanctions could be questioned. As the conflict continues and we do not yet come to a solution, you will also have to consider an escalation in your sanctioning instruments. I would point out that I think it would be good to proceed with further trade sanctions that will hit Russia even harder. Is the VVD prepared to impose such sanctions? I think that is all the more relevant because, among other things, VNO-NCW has indicated that it does not see anything in it. I am curious whether the largest government party in this Parliament is prepared to take the pain itself to put maximum pressure on this diplomatic process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u71	The answer is yes; we are prepared to impose sanctions, even if they are difficult, but on one condition, namely that they are effective. Mr Klaver quite rightly points out that the three sanction packages we have installed have no effect. In recent weeks we have seen an increase in green males in eastern Ukraine, an increase in deliveries and an increase in battle. As far as we are concerned, only sanctions if they are genuinely effective and effective. We do not exclude them in any way, because the signal to Russia must be clear: what you are doing, cannot, cannot and will not accept in Europe. I come to two brief points, starting with the discharge. In the annotated Ecofin agenda at the beginning of next week, which seems to be very far-reaching in European terms, there is talk of a discharge. The Council should issue a discharge opinion on the 2013 budget. We still see too many errors in these financial statements, too many mistakes and lack a good system to ensure proper spending in Europe. As far as the VVD is concerned, there can be no question of a discharge to the European Commission. Too little has been done with the solutions and improvements put forward by the Netherlands. My question is: what is the final verdict of the cabinet this year? That is not clear from the annotated agenda. There has been no discharge in recent years and does the cabinet still intend not to grant it this year? The original theme of this informal European Council would be the future of EMU. That is also on the agenda for the next few days. There are no documents, but there will be a presentation at the Council; then we, as Europewatchers, know that babysitting is blown! Europe has devised, discussed and adopted a number of new mechanisms for stabilising and enforcing the euro for a number of years. The Van Rompuy agenda included new elements, some of which have been introduced and others have been killed, but we have seen all kinds of new mechanisms. That should not be at the heart of the four-president report for us. One of these presidents is now sitting behind the table in a different form, but as far as we are concerned, that should not be the structure or core for the future of EMU or of the report that is now being drafted. I do not believe that new instruments and new mechanisms are the solution at the moment. I think it's time to start carrying out what we agreed. We must stick to the commitments to tackle the instruments we have. How does the Cabinet view that? For us, this is at the heart of the report. In the end, it is a question of whether Europe will still have the competitiveness to compete on the world stage with other trading blocs in order to be competitive and maintain its own earning capacity. We will have to live up to the promise of the strong internal market in services, energy and digital capital. In the coming years, energy must also go to the promise of a strong trading bloc vis-à-vis other blocks in the world. In recent years we have been a little distracted by all the problems with the euro, but Europe cannot afford to look only internally. Europe cannot afford to stare at its belly buttons. In the end, we must keep our eyes on the ball, and that must be the future and the content of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. These are exciting and a bit strange times; there are sometimes debates on lesser subjects in this Chamber. Today we are discussing the euro summit and I will look at the situation in Greece and Ukraine. What we do not need in either situation is tough campaign talk, but sensible leadership. I want to start with Greece. There are three things that are important to me. First of all, we must recognise that the recipes we used for the crisis are not working. Not only does GroenLinks think so, but so does the IMF. The IMF has admitted that errors have been made in dealing with the Greek debt crisis. For example, the impact of the loan-related austerity requirements on the Greek economy has been greatly underestimated. A small sample of the figures: healthcare expenditure in Greece has fallen by 25%; some 35,000 doctors and nurses have been dismissed; pensions have been reduced by 30% to 40%. If an elderly party is needed somewhere, it is in Greece. The number of people in poverty has never been so high. The same applies to unemployment. An entire generation grows up without a job. People literally die of cold because they cannot pay their energy bills. It sounds like we're talking about a third world country far away, but we're talking about Greece, a country in the European Union, in the euro area. Anyone who dares to talk about a blank cheque to the Greeks must be deeply, deeply ashamed. It is time for Europe to listen to the Greek people and work for a social solution. This social solution includes debt relief. What is the position of the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance with regard to the Greek Finance Minister's plan to link repayment to economic growth? How are they looking at the Greeks' plan to abandon their primary surplus of 4.5%, leaving Greece with financial room for much-needed poverty reduction? That is not only social, but also economic wise, because the surplus thus flows back into the Greek economy. The second thing that is important when it comes to Greece is that we communicate fairly about the solution for Greece and that we dare to bear responsibility for it. 85% of the Dutch do not believe that Greece will repay all its debts. Frankly, given Greece's level of debt, that seems to me to be a very sensible assessment. What do our Prime Minister and Minister of Finance think of this? Do they insist that all the money comes back? Is that a tough promise? Does that mean that 85% of the population is wrong? I'd like to get a reaction to this. People aren't crazy. We don't have to cheat on them with empty promises we can't keep. This undermines Europe's support and fosters distrust in the European Union. I come to my third and final point on Greece. Syriaza strives to burden the rich more heavily. That seems very desirable to me. How does the Minister of Finance feel about this? Does he recognise that Europe and the Netherlands in particular play a role in this? After all, the hyper-rich can only be taxed if they do not have the means to store their funds via tax havens like the Netherlands elsewhere. Does the Minister have any insight into the money flows from Greece to the Netherlands and the number of Greek assets here? Is the Minister prepared to ask the Financial Intelligence Unit to investigate this further? I shall now turn to the situation in Ukraine. GroenLinks supports the course of diplomatic search for a solution. Arms supplies will only exacerbate the conflict. GroenLinks, however, wants Europe to tighten up sanctions against Russia. I am talking not only about increasing the number of funds frozen, but also about trade sanctions. Does the Prime Minister wish to do so, or does he agree with VNO-NCW that we should not impose additional economic sanctions? I would like a clear answer to this question. What is the Prime Minister's position on excluding Russian banks from the SWIFT system? This will hit Russia hard. 90% of Russian banks' transactions cross the border. It is estimated that Russia's GDP will shrink by as much as 5% due to exclusion from the SWIFT system. I would also like to get a reaction on this point. Finally. Ukraine needs additional financial support from the IMF and the European Union to prevent bankruptcy. The central bank's support policy for the national currency means that foreign exchange reserves are running out. Poor tax revenues are declining due to an expected economic contraction of 7.5%. What is the Prime Minister's commitment to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. We have often talked about the top of the summits, but if there are summits that deserve this name, then it is the summits that take place this week. We are talking about two crucial issues that currently determine the future of Europe. First of all, let me put it this way: the East-West conflict: the issue between Ukraine and Russia. These are really questions of life and death, but also the question of what our borders will look like in the future. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the debate on the euro area and the future of the euro, with the result of the elections in Greece, the new Greek government and everything that comes with it. So let me start with that. Over the past week, the Greeks have sent out several messages on where they wish to end when it comes to Greece in the euro area. Let me take the latest proposal on the table, because that is what we know. It talks about 70% of the reforms that are maintained but 30% of those that are otherwise implemented. We are talking about a bridging loan and about debt cancellation. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance said almost positively that he believed that a financial solution could be found. If he hears these conditions from the Greeks, does he expect a solution to be found within these conditions? In other words, does the Netherlands then move away from the line it has always followed so far, namely that the package must remain the package and that it must be dealt with within it? My group has always made it clear where we stand in this discussion. In the short term, the Greek economy has not been much better by giving money to the Greeks with an increasing debt, with interest and repayment charges. At the moment things are getting a little better, but the price for this has been very high, especially for the Greeks themselves. There has been a great deal of internal devaluation, while, as far as we are concerned, we should look at external devaluation, for example by introducing a new currency. Therefore, for my group, re-giving a bridging loan is not the way out of the problem. In fact, I think this is going to push the problem forward again. Does the Minister of Finance share this view? The question is also what happens if there is no agreement with the Greeks. Does the Minister of Finance consider the scenario that the Greeks would leave the euro area to be real? I'd like his reaction to that. One point which is still on the agenda, and which, as far as we are concerned, sounds almost surreal, is the development of EMU. These are questions of countries that do not even know whether they can meet the conditions. We are having discussions with France, Italy and other southern Member States, and we are now going to consider how we can further strengthen EMU. Let us focus all our energies on keeping the agreements that have already been made. Does the Minister agree with me? Then I come to the question of Ukraine. My group very much hopes that an agreement will be reached today on Ukraine so that the civilian population, which is in different places between warring parties, can catch their breath and work towards a structural solution. We are therefore eagerly looking forward to the efforts of Merkel and Hollande. Russia has been able to annex Crimea quite easily and it is now important that Ukraine is not left to its fate either. Everyone has been able to take note of the discussion on arms supplies. My group was surprised that NATO's SG had so clearly declared itself in favour of arms supplies. Is this a coordinated call from NATO allies? The Christian Union Group supports the government's line that arms supplies to Ukraine now do not contribute to a ceasefire. Moreover, this discussion must not interfere with the German/French peace plan. Should the talks fail today, additional sanctions against Russia are already on standby. As far as we are concerned, we must also be able to discuss this. What more opportunities does the cabinet see for forcing Russia to achieve a truly sustainable solution? Mr. Chairman. I started by saying that this might be the week of weeks for the euro. There is nothing left for me but to wish the cabinet a great deal of wisdom in all the big decisions that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. The world diplomacy is back, back from maybe never really left. Look at the European tour of Tsipras and Minister Varoufakis, looking for a new deal for Greece. I call the world tour of Merkel and Hollande to prevent a major conflict. Obama also called Putin last night, a few hours after Putin handed over President Al-Sisi of Egypt a kalashnikov. There is an economic challenge with Athens and a Russian challenge to the heart of Europe, to the existence of Europe. Under President Putin, European borders are no longer sacred and safe. My group finds the annexation of Crimea, the support of separatists and the blocking of any attempt at de-escalation very worrying and fully supports Chancellor Merkel. We ask this cabinet for the same support. How did she do it? How do we prevent Western division? Lithuania already wants to arm Ukraine. Greece is openly questioning sanctions. This calls for high-level helmsmanship. My group welcomes the announcement of new sanctions, sanctions that can take place after the weekend in the absence of any steps. It's about travel bans and freezing assets. What does not become clear to me, however, is the final picture. Is that the freeze of the conflict? Is that Russia's withdrawal? Is that full implementation of the Minsk agreements? In any case, Putin's mask is gone. This calls for European action: economic action through sanctions, geopolitical action by rapidly releasing Russian energy, military action by keeping our alliance as strong as possible, assisting allies and completing the NATO flutter and diplomatic action by seeking an exhaustive solution. But the solution cannot be for Russia to re-sign the map. In the annexation of Crimea we talked about a great threat to peace and security, about a balancing act along the edges of violence. That seemed to belong to the past on this continent until recently, but it is now closer than I had ever imagined. Does the Cabinet feel that urgency? Does the cabinet think there's been an invasion? Is there any rumors that there might be an agreement? I'll be on the tour of Tsipras and Varoufakis. The soup seemed to cool off last week, but this week it was warmed up again. In a speech in parliament, Tsipras held on to his campaign promises. The reform package was non-negotiable. Greece seems to be buying time first. Greece wants recovery payments from Germany for the suffering from the Second World War. We are getting signals that they also want to spend 8 billion more in short-term bonds and that they want the profits, 1.9 billion euros, of the central banks on Greek government loans back. Varoufakis said if he had to, there'd be a clash. Is this the proposal? My group is simply waiting for a serious package, for something that we can accept or cannot accept. Minister Dijsselbloem said he wants clarity on 16 February. Is clarity on that date, i.e. on 16 February, also the requirement of the euro group? Of course, my group is not in favour of debt cancellation at the moment. Greece must first of all put its own house in order. Tsipras promised to fight corruption. He promised to break open the idea of professions protected from the elite. He promised to deal with government agencies. If they do so, the bill can be distributed more fairly, the middle class also gets space and young people get perspective. Only then can Europe be open to new conditions. That's the order. Does the Cabinet share my opinion? The new government in Greece has not only economic effects but also geopolitical effects. Tsipras was welcomed to Moscow with open arms last week. He openly doubts the sanctions. How do we deal with that? The third item on the agenda is terrorism. The hit on Charlie Hebdo and the Jewish supermarket was a month ago. This afternoon we are debating what the Netherlands is doing against terrorist threats. What else can we do? Of course, we can also tackle this at European level. Paris is five hours away. Charlie Hebdo was literally next door. I said last week that I missed the proposals from the Netherlands and I miss them this week too. Do we want to take steps towards a basic security service of the European Union? Can Europol set up an anti-terror centre? Are we also going to share information from intelligence services internationally on this continent? My group likes to hear what the cabinet is like. I'm rounding up. We are seeing these days, these weeks, that Europe matters, when it comes to the economy with Greece, when it comes to security with the Russians, but what exactly is the Netherlands going to do? Do we say to the Greeks: make room in your agenda, because at the next summit it is, I think, toothbrushes? Everything has to be done to make a deal. Do we say to the Russians: to here and no further? I would like to make one final point. Are we also putting Lampedusa back on the agenda, we Netherlands? This morning, word came in that 200 refugees drowned at Lampedusa. The European Union's vessels prove unfit for rescue work. The Italians are quite accusing Europeans of this. Does the government share the Italians' criticism of the European Union's rescue work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u75	I agree with the last point. My question concerns the cancellation of the Greek debt. Mr Pechtold spoke of: everything in the right order, if I understand him correctly. He also mentioned toothbrushes for the next summit because a solution will and must be found. Does Mr Pechtold not rule out the possibility of talking about debt cancellation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u76	I was just talking about that order. I hope that the next summit will lead to that solution if it is speeded up. We have seen quite a few signals since the new elections in Greece. You scared the hell out of me at the First Council of Ministers. Suddenly all sorts of things were reversed. Next came a tour of the European capitals. Then, over and over again, other signals were sent out. The VVD other people are perhaps planning to do so now with:... and otherwise only from the euro. But with that, you're playing into the hands of the Russians. Maybe I should put it together. Zijlstra's position yesterday is actually exactly what Putin wants: a divided European Union, a euro that falls apart. That is the only way to save its weak economy a little bit, because the European Union will remain in trouble. Let the Greeks work on the anti-corruption measures. I think that's the most important thing. That is also the most social for the Greeks themselves. Let us then see what their package is acceptable to us. Let us not forget that, of course, they have extremely favourable conditions. On the other hand, we still deserve these loans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u77	In this way, Mr Pechtold leaves room for weakening the Greeks' demands and for further write-off of debts. That seems to me almost necessary if you want to give the Greeks some perspective at all. That is actually Mr Tsipras's complete package. In other words, does Mr Pechtold immediately embrace Mr Tsipras's demands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u78	Total bullshit. Democracy, "demos kratos" is a Greek term. The Greeks once invented it themselves. We must bear in mind that the outcome of the last Greek elections gives room for fresh negotiations. The Greeks must bear in mind that the same democracy in the previous period led the government to make agreements with Europeans. From that point of view, therefore, the person who wants to change something must make a real offer. I have just outlined that, on the one hand, the conditions are extremely favourable. I was referring to the loans, the interest rates, the payment periods. On the other hand, we are still making money from these loans. I believe that there is room for a real package. However, I am most interested in the following. Okay, now there's a government that we've all been thinking about: what kind of figures are they? However, it changes if they are really able to break 30 to 40 years of corruption and ensure that reforms are not only made on paper. Hollande also reforms, namely on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u79	In any case, Mr Pechtold's story about the euro is a fair one. I analyse the problems differently, but it doesn't matter because it's a fair story. I believe, however, that the fair story is also that there are other conditions that are conceivable if the Greeks comply with the agreements on sufficient reforms, but that of course they cost money in relation to the current conditions. I hear Mr Pechtold say that between the lines, but I also like to hear him say it explicitly. In fact, the key question is whether, according to Mr Pechtold, there can be a political package that does not cost money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u80	I don't think so. When you ask people from the VVD exactly like that, they say: if we hustle with those appointments, you stay at zero. The reality is, if you're gonna hustle with those appointments, you're obviously not gonna be on zero. If you extend anything in time, it costs money. If you do anything about the interest, it's gonna cost you. On the other hand, the package is already very interesting to the Greeks, but we still deserve it. Is it real that a country like the Netherlands is making money lent to European countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u81	Does Mr Pechtold himself have a proposal? Now the interest rate is 1.5%. I think it's actually Euribor plus 0.5%. Does Mr Pechtold propose going to that 1%? Or he says, "I'll leave that to the government, and we'll see about that."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u82	It's not. I'll leave it to the government. Nor do I have the idea that this Tsipras is now listening with an interpreter to what Pechtold and Dijkgraaf are saying to each other. I can see at this point that the Minister of Finance does not rule that out. Then I'd say, "Listen carefully." It would be foolish, of course, if we were to say to the Minister: think about the interest rate. Mrs Schouten summarized my contribution just now when she said: let the Greeks come up with a real package. I do not think that the most important thing at the moment is precisely what the conditions of the loans are, but the most important thing is the hardness of the reforms that are behind them. I say once again: even northern European countries sometimes reform on paper and then do not make a living. If the reforms in Greece are real, if a land register is being created, and if the elite that is holding on to all these jobs are really going to work, then we can do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u83	Please continue with your speech, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u84	I was done with my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you. Then we'll continue with Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by asking the Minister of Finance a first question. How much money do we make from these loans to Greece? Mr Pechtold wants us to believe that we are still making money from it, but I think he missed a few steps in debt relief. When the loan started, it was for 5 years and there was an interest rate of 5.5%, but by now we are at 32.5 years and at cost or funding, so 0%. In my view, therefore, we do not make any money from it and therefore there is no room for debt relief. The euro is coming to an end. Almost everyone is now convinced that the euro was a bad idea and should never have been introduced. Even De Jager said: Greece should never have been admitted to the euro. However, the Heads of Government are taking everything out of the box to save the euro. Why do they do that anyway? Is it their honor to admit this megafault? The euro will and must succeed, whatever it takes, cried Mario Draghi tough. We knew that. The money presses are now working overtime in Frankfurt: 1 140 billion is being sent to banks and countries in southern Europe. More billions of flows to southern Europe. Germany, Austria and our Klaas Knot were fierce opponents of this quantitative expansion. But they were voted down by the weaker, profit-making Member States. But if things go wrong, we and the Germans and the Austrians can pay the bill. The question is therefore how independent this ECB really is. Should the Netherlands, as I just asked Mr Buma, not have a veto on these major monetary operations? Is the Minister going to set this up at the top? Meanwhile, we continue to swim in the European trap. In the meantime, we are guaranteeing more than 50 billion to weak euro-zone countries, whose question is whether they will ever be able to repay it. Meanwhile, the ECB is buying 1.14 trillion euros of bonds, the question being whether these amounts will ever reach the real economy and whether it will be effective, while investing 350 billion dollars in unnecessary ports, carless motorways and noise shields in Poland. Meanwhile, our healthy banks guarantee 4.5 billion for southern European zombie banks. We're swimming deeper and deeper into the trap. And then Greece. I still hear Frans Weekers shouting in 2010: no euro Dutch tax money to Greece, they cheated and cheated. Then Mark Rutte in Carré: no extra money for Greece. But then he signed every check, one after the other. In total, Greece received 240 billion, of which 18 billion were from the Netherlands. How credible is that anymore? It all began five years ago in Athens, when it appeared that the Greeks had lived on far too great a footing for years. If we could just pay the bill. It started with 18 billion, then it became 30 billion, then 110 billion and eventually 240 billion. The PVV has therefore warned us from day one: we will never see that money again. They're jokers, those Greeks, with junk status. You don't lend money to a junkie. But no, Minister De Jager solemnly declared: we get everything back, with interest. He even tried to tell us that it was gonna make us money. Nothing could be further from the truth. The current government of Prime Minister Tsipras is now refusing to repay everything and has thrown all the agreements made overboard. The troika was kilted and cuts were reversed. The party can start again in Greece, at our expense. Surely it is not possible for the Netherlands to be cut back by this cabinet and Greece to reverse all the cuts? That 150 000 people have been fired here, while in Greece the dismissal of civil servants has been reversed? That our pensions are reduced here, while in Greece pensions have been increased? That we pay our taxes here, when they refuse to pay taxes in Greece? Can the Prime Minister explain that? He promised we'd get that 18 billion back with interest. But we, the PVV, want our money back. "We want our money back," to speak to Margaret Thatcher. And quickly, because we can use that money for our elderly, our unemployed, our pump holders, our people in Groningen. Certainly we want our money back now that the Greeks have indicated that they do not intend to repay the money. The PVV wants a short-term overview of how we get our money back in the short term, with a timeline. The citizens of this country have a right to do so. The Prime Minister promised. Promise makes you guilty. The people in this country are no longer fooled by the fine talk and false promises made by the Prime Minister. So butter on the fish: can the Prime Minister promise this or does he break his promise again? Can he also guarantee that he does not agree with any form of remission, debt relief or bridging? Here in the Netherlands people also have a lot of debts. A million and a half people are underwater with their homes. They are also obliged to comply with their obligations. So why not the Greeks? Is he not going to honour his previous promise to Greece this time? Or is this the third time he's broken this promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u87	If this was the input, I would like to point out that there is another very big problem this week, tomorrow, namely the war in eastern Ukraine. That is not what Mr Van Dijck is talking about. May I ask him why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u88	I understand there are peace negotiations going on. We hope, of course, that they will succeed. We await the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u89	This is a major European problem. The great example of your foreman Geert Wilders said last weekend about Ukraine that the Americans are after war in Europe. What does Mr Van Dijck think of that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u90	Who said that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u91	Your great example, for she is the example of your foreman, Mrs Le Pen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u92	Oh. And what did Mr Wilders say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr Buma, perhaps you could ask your question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u94	It is, of course, deeply sad that the big problem in Eastern Ukraine does not interest the PVV at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u95	We are certainly interested in that, but of course we want a peaceful solution. We are not waiting for war; I think that is true of everyone in this house. We await the peace talks that are now taking place in Minsk. We hope they succeed and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u96	Then may I ask the question I wanted to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u97	I just invited you to do that. Then you asked another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u98	If I can't, I won't. That is fine, but if I may ask my question, that is the only question, while I would like to ask a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u99	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr Van Dijck, your great example, Mrs Marine Le Pen, leader of the Front National in France...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u101	That's not our big example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr. Buma, go ahead; ask your question. Mr Van Dijck, you may reply afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u103	She said about the crisis in Eastern Ukraine that it was Europe's fault, and I can also say it in French, but I am not going to go to America for war in Europe. My specific question is whether the PVV will then be Mr Wilders, who is prepared to address Mrs Le Pen to this shameful statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mrs Le Pen is not our great example. Once again, the PVV, here in the Netherlands, awaits the peace talks. We hope that they will succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u105	The PVV and Mr Van Dijck are, of course, entitled to their own opinion, but not to their own facts. Is there not a time when he is ashamed of the way he talks about Greece? He pretends that it is a ludicrous country, while child mortality there has risen by more than 40%, average household income has fallen by 30%, mental health care has been reduced 68%, 1 million people are unemployed and unemployment is 30%. How dare Mr Van Dijck come here and give the impression that Greece is a kind of ludicrous country? Where did he come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u106	I'm almost laughing at this. Of course, the Greeks should be ashamed that they have allowed this to happen and that they have allowed the mountain of debt to rise so high that they can no longer repay the debts. Over the past two centuries, the Greeks have been in default 90 times, so they could not repay their debts; 90 times in 200 years. The Greeks and the Greek Parliament should be ashamed of that. You should be ashamed to call yourself a Dutch representative, because you stand up more for the Greeks than for the Dutch. Poverty has also increased enormously here; the food banks are also full of people here. You're not looking at that. The elderly are being evicted from the old people's home. You're not looking at that. You care about Greece. You send 18 billion to Greece, so that the Greek population gets better, but you remove 18 billion from the Netherlands. Then you leave our elderly and our pump holders in the cold. That's what you do. You are not a Dutch representative; you are a Greek Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u107	Of the 227 billion that Europe has sent to Greece, 27 billion went to the government. The rest went to the banks; our banks also had to be saved in that way. So that much money has not gone to the Greek population. I am a Dutch representative, but I do look over the dikes. I am concerned when I see, for example, a 50% increase in child mortality in such a country. I would like the PVV to do so, too, in my view. The only way to do that is not by coming here with tough talk now, but by opening up the conversation with the Greeks and seeing debt relief as an opportunity. Mr Van Dijck knows even better than I do that if Greece really goes bankrupt and really gets out of the euro, we will see much less money back or even nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mr Klaver should be more concerned about the Netherlands and all the misery he has caused in the Netherlands or for which he is jointly responsible. Of course, the Greek government has messed up. But should the Dutch taxpayer bleed for that? For that mess the Greek government made? Of course, the Greek Government is far too in debt and has celebrated for years, as it now appears at our expense. We're not paying that bill. That hangover is for Greece and for the Greeks, but not for the Dutch citizen!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already spoken about it: the war in Ukraine and the tension surrounding the euro and Greece are putting European cooperation to the test. I understand that there is a great temptation to fall into muscle language, but I think it would be wiser to look for workable solutions. The words of Minister Dijsselbloem that threats over and over again do not help me have been taken from my heart. Over the past two weeks and three days, so recently, the Greek elections took place, and several Greek ministers travelled around Europe. Prime Minister Tsipras and Minister of Finance Varoufakis were followed closely. The message of the Greek Government was not the same every day and changed slightly, but I think one thing is clear: the government wants to stay in the euro area and put the Greek economy in order. I have also heard that the Greek Government wants to repay the loan. The following principles apply to the PvdA. It is in our common interest to strengthen the Greek economy. Without a stronger economy, it is impossible to repay debts. A stronger Greek economy means Greece within the euro. The aim should be to keep Greece within the euro under the conditions that are in line with European values. Greece must continue to take steps. Appointments can't just be one-sidedly swept away. It is also important that some Members have already talked about this in order to realise that Greece is geopolitically an important country. The country is strategically located and is not far from the unstable Middle East and North Africa. An implosion of a country with 11 million inhabitants and an estimated number from 0.5 to 1 million illegal migrants does not strike me as right. Social instability in Greece is not good for us. It's a fiscal mess in Greece. Tax avoidance and corruption should therefore be addressed. The new government has said it wants to do something about it. We welcome that. On Sunday, the Prime Minister presented a number of domestic measures. These were then supplemented by Minister Varoufakis, who said that his government, as Mr Schouten said, is taking over 70% of the reform arrangements of the previous government and wants to replace 30% with other measures. We look forward to waiting for the measures to be taken and the proposals put forward by the Greek Government, as long as they do not mean that the loans will not be repaid and as long as serious efforts are being made to combat corruption, tax avoidance and the power of the oligarchs. If the Greek Government no longer wants to sell ports, but wants to tax people who are so rich that they have a port of their own, that seems to me to be a very good thing. Negotiations on debt conditions must be conducted in a realistic manner. In doing so, no concessions should be made in the area of tackling this oligarchy, tax avoidance and corruption. I come to the second point that has also been discussed today by my fellow Members, which is very important for European stability: the tension between Russia and Ukraine. The discussions between Hollande and Merkel with Poroshenko and Putin this weekend have led to a possible meeting between the four today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u110	I hear from the PvdA a slightly milder tone about Greece than from the VVD. I'm glad. We will have to get out of this eventually. I wonder what Mrs Maij is saying about the troika. In Greece, the Troika is no longer wanted. Does Mrs Maij say that we do want to do so, that we must go through with the troika? What does she think of the VVD's plan that even has to be stamped by the troika? The troika has to approve it, otherwise they will go out of the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u111	In my view, it is important that we come up with a solution that is bearable both for Greece and for the countries that have lent money. That solution must, of course, be negotiated with the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF, because these are the lenders, that is the troika. I think that the Eurogroup will be speaking in the first place this evening. It seems important to me that we come to a solution whereby Greece will reform on the points I have just mentioned and the debts can be repaid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u112	Does Mrs Maij, like the VVD, say that the stamp of the troika should be on it, otherwise we will throw them out of the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u113	The latter seems to me to be from the "muscle talk" department that is not helping at the moment. I spoke about the discussions that will probably be held later today in Minsk between Hollande, Merkel, Poroshenko and Putin. There's still some beatings on the arm. In the media it says that there is a French-German proposal for a demilitarised zone and more autonomy for the east. Against this background, the discussion is about how parties put pressure on the negotiations. Putin is doing this through military reinforcement and new offensives towards strategic points. The Americans are doing this by keeping the armament of the Ukrainian armed forces in the air as an option if peace talks were to fail. Our position is unchanged for the time being. We want more sanctions, less for less, and no military support and arms supplies, because we do not think there is a military solution to this conflict. There is a need to work towards a political solution; a dialogue is still important. It is also important that we maintain the unity of commitment between the European Union and the US. I am very interested in the results of the talks in Minsk today. What does the government expect from this? How will this be discussed in the Council tomorrow? I would like to touch briefly on another subject which is also on the agenda, namely the fight against terrorism. This issue is high on the EU's agenda. This was already discussed last week in the General Affairs Council and before that in the JHA Council. Soon it will be discussed in the European Council. This afternoon there will also be a debate in the Chamber on how we can improve and guarantee security in our country. It's a good thing that everything is being put into action to counter threats. That doesn't mean that the end also justifies every means. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, it does not want to commit itself to a political arms race of substantial proposals. In the case of new measures, those who wish to protect freedom with restrictions of freedom must exercise great care. The PvdA Group sees no advantage in a large rigged system in which all passenger data is available everywhere. That means he's gonna miss his target. The European Parliament asked a number of questions about this yesterday. If I have understood correctly, it has asked the Commission to demonstrate the need and the consequences of a system with independent experts. For example, the question of how and how much passenger data the passenger name registration has already been stored by individual airlines, where and for how long. How is this considered in other Member States? How will the government enter into this discussion? I have already said that European cooperation is being put to the test by the war in Ukraine and the tensions over the euro and Greece. For Greece, the PvdA is seeking a solution whereby debts are repaid and the agreements with the European partners are respected. At the same time, if the Greek Government keeps its promise to clean up the political and economic mess and keep that promise, I think that these two things can go hand in hand. The PvdA wishes to continue to work on a political solution to the war in Ukraine. It considers the dialogue to be unabatedly important to maintain unity within the EU and between the EU and the US, positions on the resolution of the crisis, and positions on Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u114	I heard Mrs Maij say a few times that she is happy when there is a solution for the repayment of those debts. But you can repay debts in different ways. Greece already has an interest-free loan, so it doesn't have to pay interest. And it doesn't start to pay off until 2022, which takes another 42.5 years. Now a euro in 42 or 43 years is not worth the same as it is now. Does Mrs Maij mean to pay back debts or does she say it shouldn't cost us anything extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u115	Maybe it's similar to a house that's underwater in the Netherlands. For someone with a mortgage debt for his home, the debt remains the same amount, and eventually it will be repaid according to the arrangements made. Also, this €200,000 over 30 years is not worth the same as the €200,000 borrowed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u116	Yeah, but with the difference that you pay a reasonable interest for that. The Greeks pay 0% interest and have a maturity of 42.5 years and an interest-free period of 12 years. But it's also about the following. This Minister of Finance has already opened the door, because there is talk to him about debt relief. Suppose he comes back later and says the Greeks can take 200 years, with the cost of funding, and they pay the Euribor. Is Mrs. Maij happy? Is she gonna agree to that because we're gonna get our money back anyway? Or does she say: yes crazy Henkie, in 200 years a euro will be worth the same as what is now a dime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u117	I would like to see Mr Van Dijck's papers which state that the Greeks will pay 0% until the end of the loan. In my view, this is an incorrect assumption and certainly not the case. I think it is very good to see what can be paid back. In the case of refunds, it is also agreed in what way this can be done and in what way the money can eventually be recovered. Just saying that it has to be done now and add the consequence of the red button to it, means that you will never get anything back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u118	I'd like to make this right. Five years ago, we started with a five-year term and an interest rate of 5.5%. Let me tell you what kind of jokers the Greeks are. The process was gradually extended from 5 years to 32.5 years. Can you do it any longer? That's what you're wondering. The interest rate has been reduced from 5.5% to 0.58%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u119	That's not 0%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u120	We're not going to argue about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u121	That was the question. So it's not 0%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u122	No, Mr. Van Dijck, I've given you an opportunity to answer the question, so we're not going to go any further on this. Mr Klaver now has another question for Mrs Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the position of the PvdA. Syriza has won, so there's going to be a left wind in Greece. It'll trade in some right-wing recipes for the crisis for left-wing recipes. In any case, debt relief is one part of it. Can it be part of a package of solutions for Greece for the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u124	I think that a comprehensive package is very important, in which corruption, tax avoidance and, in particular, the oligarchs who have made a mess of it are being tackled, and there is also restructuring, so that debts are repaid in a different way. That can indeed be one part of that package. But I do think it's a good idea to assume that it will eventually be repaid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u125	Clear, these were nice phrases. If I understand her correctly, Mrs Maij of the PvdA actually says: debt relief can be part of the overall package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u126	As long as that means it'll be paid back eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr. Chairman. I would also very much like to talk about Ukraine, about the terrible war there. But I only have two and a half minutes of speaking time. If it were up to the VVD, I would have less speaking time. So I'm going to confine myself to Greece. Let us stop fooling each other: Greece must get out of the euro as soon as possible. Greece, of course, should never have joined the euro. The Greek fiscal and economic culture is too different. Corruption is widespread. Greece was in financial need by cheating on budget figures and is artificially kept alive by the Northern European taxpayer. You'd think the Greeks would be grateful for that. But no, the country has opted for radical left-wing leaders who do not keep any deal and refuse to repay the debts. Do they not realize that hardworking Dutch people have paid massively for the rescue of Greece? People who have been sighing under the tax and excise taxes of the VVD for years have been paying for them. We're all done with Greece. At the beginning of this week, Alan Greenspan, the former President of the US Central Bank, predicted that Greece would eventually disappear from the currency union. We share that view. Is the cabinet prepared to commit to a departure of the Greeks from the euro area at the European summit? A departure is also the best option for the Greeks themselves. They will no longer be held prisoner in the failed euro experiment. With their own currency, they can once again try to ensure some economic growth. The more poor countries leave the euro, the better. The European Union must be dismantled. Hopefully a grexit is the first step for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. Several colleagues have spoken the fine words 'a deal is a deal'. I have heard Mr Verheijen and Mr Buma say it, and I repeat it after them. We have made clear agreements and held many debates on the 240 billion for Greece, the conditions attached to it, the interest rate, which has been reduced over time, and the repayment period, which has also been extended, which has reduced the cost to the Greeks. My question to the Minister is this: how would Spain, Portugal and Cyprus react if you were to renegotiate? Wouldn't they want better conditions to reduce costs? "A deal is a deal" is very easy to say. However, we are dealing with the reality in Greece: new elections and strong language that have been cast out on the Greek side. Strong language has also been spoken on the European side. However, a solution must be found. I found Mr Pechtold very honest in the debate by recognising that if a political solution is found, it will cost money. That is an honest observation. The Minister of Finance has said that he will look positively at this. He thinks that there are solutions and that we can keep the Greeks within the euro. I can imagine that too, but I cannot imagine a technical solution that, directly or indirectly, costs no money. That's a question I like to get answered by the Minister. My problem with the approach around Greece is that we are not offering a real solution. Mrs Schouten said the same thing. After all, we continue to have this problem. Mr Klaver said this very clearly: because we have withheld them from external devaluation, we must devalue them internally. Look at all these pay cuts. Mr Klaver mentioned child mortality. There are many examples to give, and the Greeks are indeed paying the bill. He then chooses another solution, but I think the fair solution is to give the Greeks their own currency unless you want to continue to pay them money in the long term. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to work on a voluntary euro exit without leading to an EU exit. That brings us back to Mr Pechtold's point. He said you'd have a geopolitical problem because you'd drive the Greeks into the arms of the Russians. We therefore propose, as a solution, that the Greeks should at least give back the exchange rate in the long term, so that they do not have to devalue internally. That doesn't mean this doesn't cost money. This too is not a free solution. It may even be an expensive solution, but it will provide a real solution to the current problem. Colleagues have already said what is necessary about Ukraine. There has been a sad situation there. Frederik the Great said: "Diplomation without weapons is like music without instruments." Now the big question is which weapons you choose. However, I am concerned that the United States is pointing to military weapons. They say they will arm Ukraine. I don't think we should go that way. This means that the conflict will be increased by military means and that the pressure will increase there. It doesn't help us. I understand that the United States is less affected by this than we are. It doesn't affect their boundaries, but it does affect our borders. It is not good for security in Europe if we look for it in the military route. Of course, we can look for it in other weapons, such as economic weapons. Think of the boycott instruments. We support the line chosen by the government. However, let us also be realistic. If we want to reach a diplomatic solution for Russia, we will also have to respect, whether we like it or not, that Ukraine historically falls within the Russian sphere of influence. So we will also have to offer them a solution in which this is respected. For example, we should not say very easily: otherwise Ukraine will become a member of NATO or an extension of the EU. We will have to offer Ukraine a way out that is also passable to Russia itself. I wish the cabinet a great deal of strength in these difficult times, because these are very important decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u129	I fully agreed with Mr Dijkgraaf's speech, to the sense that Ukraine is in Russia's sphere of influence and that we must draw conclusions from it, or something like that. Ukraine is an independent sovereign country, which can choose its own sphere of influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u130	Sure, it's an independent country. So I'm not talking right at all about what Russia has done. On the contrary, I don't think it should have done that, but whether you like it or not, looking at the past thousand years of history, it makes sense from Russian thought that you look at it differently. You're gonna have to take that into account in diplomatic talks. I'm not saying that the Russians are right or that I like that they are. Not only does Putin feel the same way, but the Russian people feel the same way. So you have to realize that Ukraine is a very important country for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u131	I do not understand what the result of this is for the negotiations that are currently taking place. Your theorem is exactly the Russians' theorem. They say: it is our sphere of influence. However, Ukraine says that we do choose and we choose to connect with the European Union. Surely the principle of Ukraine's sovereignty should be at the forefront, rather than the fact that Russia wants to have something to say about neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u132	I agree. Ukraine is an independent country and we must fully respect it. That is why we reacted firmly when Russia invaded Crimea. In the diplomatic talks you can and must say that Ukraine's independence must be respected. However, if you want to find a solution, you will have to realise that this is the way people think in Russia. That's all I'm saying. Be realistic. It is very easy to say to Russia that it is not right, but the Russians will not change their minds. So choose a solution that allows the Russians to come to a solution. If you only confront and just deny, then you will never find a diplomatic solution. And that's shrewd running. That is why I wish the Cabinet much strength in this discussion, because this is a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. The Greek people have spoken and opted for a new direction. The voters have indicated that they want to get rid of the troika's harsh policies and want alternatives. The Greek people have often been afraid of what would happen if it made this choice, but it has overcome that fear. The Greeks have said that we will no longer be messing with us. The same can be heard in other countries, such as Spain, where more and more people are being heard and where people are looking for a more humane policy; it is a new wind blowing through Europe. So we are dealing with a new reality. Yet you can see that a number of politicians are stuck in the old reality. Politicians who think: how can that be, we have helped these Greeks so much and yet they rise up, what an ungrateful people. The Greeks and, of course, the Greek authorities are all blamed for what they have done wrong in the past, but it is of so little use. Nor do you have any use in threatening to throw them out of the euro if they do not do what we want them to do. There is little to say, as Schäuble did yesterday, that only the Greeks themselves are guilty of economic misery. Apart from the fact that this is not very productive, that is also far from the truth. When are the Heads of Government going to put their hands in their own pockets and see if they themselves have done something wrong in dealing with Greece? I also ask this cabinet to look in the mirror and ask itself: have we really all done well? Is all the malaise in Greece really due to the Greeks themselves and who did we actually try to save, are those the Greeks or are those the banks? More than two years ago we had a debate here on Greece and I said the following: "Next year when almost all debt is in public hands, we are back here again. Then don't tell me that no one could have predicted that things would get worse with Greece. My answer will then be: you knew damn well in December 2012 that Greece would get into further trouble. That's what happens when Greece can't sell anything because of the European austerity drive. That is what you get when you count yourself rich by offering the chosen solution far too rosy financially. That's what you get when you pretend Greece can collect money on its own in a few years' time under these circumstances. The question is then: who is being written off on the debt and when?'. Admittedly, it's been two years, but otherwise, I think the prophecy was right. At least it wasn't about world economics, because it went pretty well. The question now is: are the European Finance Ministers and the Heads of Government really going to work on a plan that offers prospects for Greece or are they going to start a trenches war in which they wallow in their own accord? And it is known that a chicken game all too often results in losses for both parties. Let us be honest: there is always talk about the loss for Greece if we do not get out of it, but do we not have a huge problem ourselves when Greece is going to be bankrupt and there is nothing left to achieve? What about the geopolitical consequences if Greece no longer feels at home in this Europe? Moreover, according to these ministers, bankruptcy automatically means departure from the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u134	I would like to mention Mr Merkies' words on what Greece's exit from the euro area would mean for us. I believe that last year Mrs Kroes, then Commissioner, said in an interview that no man would be overboard if Greece left the euro area. Does Mr Merkies know what Mr Van Bommel's reaction was, his colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u135	No, you know, you tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u136	I know, he said, "That's right!" At that time, the SP's line was apparently that there would be no man overboard if Greece left the euro area. Why has the SP suddenly taken a different view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u137	The problem is, I don't know how he literally said it and what the context was. I think it is indeed a problem for Greece to leave the euro. I am surprised that the Christian Union said before the elections that Greece should get out of the euro. Do you know what happens then? Then why would Greece pay back anything? The Christian Union's proposal means that we do not see anything of the guilt at all, or does Mrs Schouten deny it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u138	No. If Mr Merkies had looked back a little longer, he would know that we said two years ago that it would be better for Greece to go outside the euro area. For us, these aren't election talk. In fact, we immediately indicated that it would also mean a waiver of debts. That is the honest story, Mr Merkies, and I have not heard the SP say that in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u139	I would like to say something else about that. In the first place, the Christian Union was not in favour of debt cancellation. The group has even voted against it a number of times, but after a while it has come to terms. We fought together for what could still be written off on private debts. Now we come into the situation that everything is in public hands and with that we have a new reality. In the proposal that Mrs Schouten is going for, we are not getting anything back. Moreover, this is also very bad for Greece. I find it really incomprehensible that the Christian Union should come forward with such a proposal. I would like to talk about the perspective of this new government; I am thinking here of tackling tax evasion. Nor has anything been achieved with the previous government in the area of corruption. A new set of politicians who are not part of the old system offers new opportunities. The privatisations are being stopped, but let's face it: were the ambitions so real? It turns out it all turned out to be very little. You may wonder if you would be wise to privatise so much at the moment when corruption is still so great. Isn't that a big risk? Do the Ministers agree that it is important to buy time to make good agreements, at least until the summer? That we should keep our heads down and avoid threats? That the fight against poverty in Greece should be part of those talks? That a thriving Greek economy is also in our interest, do we want to see any of that money back? And that the role of the troika has been played out and a new partnership needs to be looked at? The Greeks cannot hear the word 'troika' anymore, but we must also ask ourselves whether we need an IMF or an ECB at the table to make good agreements with the Greeks. Hasn't the ECB been sitting very much in the chair of politicians anyway? In fact, the ECB is supremely powerful. At the touch of a button, the ECB may terminate the ELISA facility. That is, in fact, a political decision because, at such a time, bankruptcy seems inevitable. Finally, I would like to know whether there is a ten-point plan. I hear rumors that such a plan would be there for bridging, or should that remain secret for a while? The ECB has decided to buy up large-scale government bonds. We welcome the courage to take this step, because it shows that the ECB has overcome its fear of cold water. For us, the condition is that the money does not disappear in speculative bubbles in the financial sector, but ends up in the real economy. However, this does not appear to be the case in the current design. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to monitor whether this will lead to more loans for SMEs and more spending to prevent deflation? That was the intention, after all. I am convinced that the ECB's policy is indeed capable of achieving this. To this end, we will first have to have proper consultation on a mandate from the ECB. Isn't that incredibly in need of renewal? I have already asked for a debate on this, and we need to talk about it very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u140	This brings to an end the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance will shortly discuss in detail or less detail, depending on the number of questions asked, quantitative easing, France, Italy, discharge and a number of other matters which are particularly relevant to him. I will address myself to the questions that have been raised about Ukraine and the post-Paris situation concerning the fight against terrorism. A single question has also been asked about the future of EMU. Of course, I'll start with Greece. Before I do that, I'm going into one practical case. Mr Pechtold asked if Lampedusa was on the agenda of this EU summit. That is not the case. It is not on the agenda of this Council, but people might bring it up. I agree with Mr Pechtold that the recent images are terrible: another serious humanitarian tragedy has occurred at Lampedusa. Smugglers act mercilessly and deliberately endanger vulnerable people. I think we all agree that we must fight this by all means possible. It is also important to prevent a suction effect. The European Union's entire strategy is to combat illegal migration, in addition to preventing such humanitarian tragedies. The Netherlands makes the necessary contributions, in the form of staff and equipment; think of fast boats. Since April we have also been scheduled for a coastguard aircraft. This is very regularly discussed in Europe. In any case, it is again foreseen for the next JHA Council. However, it is not foreseen for this European Council because there are no concrete decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u142	This morning it became known that most likely a fourth boat has perished. This would bring the death toll of the last few days alone above 300. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that this needs to be addressed at the source. However, there is now criticism within the European Union. Not only the mayor of Lampedusa, but also the coastguard of Italy is clearly critical of the ability of European Union boats to carry out rescue operations. They have a different task. The subject is therefore not on this week's agenda. Is the Netherlands prepared to deal with the question of whether Europe can actually deal with the rescue measures for the next time? Will it at least ensure that, in the interim period, we are prepared to seriously consider whether the European Union can do this task?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u143	It is scheduled for the next JHA Council. I admit that the Netherlands can handle this particular approach in Europe? It will be actively involved in the discussion. I come to the question of Greece. First of all, I would like to say that both the Minister of Finance and myself will stay away from the dance scenarios in this debate. A number of spokesmen will ask "if this does not happen, will it not lead to...?" which complements all kinds of scenarios. We're not gonna go into that. Meetings will take place today and Monday. Tomorrow is the European Council, where the Minister for Finance, in his capacity as President of the Eurogroup, will report on the progress of the eurogroup tonight. From our responsibility, we consider it our duty not to throw oil on the waves, but not oil on the fire. This includes the fact that we do not go into questions like that. The second type as-dan questions will be about all kinds of speculations that are going around. We will not go into that either. In this way I will outline the outlines in which we believe the solution must be found. I'll be very clear about that. We stay away from all the follow-up questions in the vein of "if not this, what then?" And "what do you think of proposals A, B or C made by this or that minister or prime minister?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u144	That's what I suspected. Then let me put a general question to the Prime Minister. Does he agree with me that a change of arrangement always costs money, left or right, today or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u145	No, I don't agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u146	That seems to me to be another firm statement from the Prime Minister. He's definitely on that now. He does not want to share his thoughts with the Dutch Parliament, but he confronts us with results that some part of the Chamber says: yes, but here the Prime Minister suggested something else. There are like-dance scenarios. I understand that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance do not want to go into the exact adjustments, but the Greeks are not asking for adjustments for nothing. You ask for adjustments because you're in trouble right now and you obviously want to move those problems over time or because you want to do whatever you want with them. Every change costs money, otherwise there is no point in making these agreements for the Greeks either. On the other hand, conditions may become more harsh, reforms become clearer and so on. So that gives us something, but in another area. However, my position is that the... on the left or on the right, today or tomorrow.. costs money if you change anything about the agreements. I want to hear clearly from the Prime Minister that he agrees with me, otherwise I would like to know much more about what the Dutch cabinet intends to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u147	I was also going to tell you what, as far as we are concerned, are the contours within which the discussion has to take place. These contours are: a deal is a deal. We made a deal. We all have to stick to that. That's what this means. There's an existing program. This has all kinds of framework conditions and modalities, including in terms of the revenues that the programme should have, the debt sustainability and so on. We consider it extremely important that these agreements remain in place. In there, a country, if it has committed itself to certain results, always has the opportunity to say: we intended to achieve them by means of A, B and C, but we have now decided to do so by means of D, E and F. It's possible. Then it is up to the three parties who advise the eurogroup on the precise returns of all kinds of measures and the implementation of the programme that are the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF to determine whether it has the same returns in terms of, for example, debt sustainability and deficit reduction associated with the programme, if a measure A is replaced by a measure D or a measure B by a measure E. That's possible. A country can always decide, even if it has a new government, to change the mix of measures. However, this should not prejudice the results we have previously agreed on, the deliverables of the programme. That is our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u148	This is indeed the heart of the matter. The Prime Minister says that a different kind of reform measures can be discussed. But I also hear that it is not negotiable that measures cost more money on balance, involve more risk or otherwise weaken the position of the Netherlands and the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u149	I am quite clear about the Dutch commitment. Anyone can be there or draw their conclusions, but every question I'm about to answer is this as-dan question and so I can come up with ten more ideas that will lead to headings at Reuters or at other international press agencies in the vein of "The Netherlands speculates on scenario A, possibly provides scenario B, doesn't want scenario C." We're not gonna do that. The contours are tight. I don't think I can put them much tighter. Agreement is agreed, the programme is in place; in it, measures can be replaced by new measures that bring the same benefits. The same test must also be carried out by the three parties. Members can all draw their conclusions from that. However, I am not going to make it explicit here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u150	This tends a little too much towards the role of the President of the Eurogroup. That's the role of the Prime Minister's neighbor. It is his role to ensure that a solution is found in any way. The Dutch task is to see whether the interests of the Netherlands are properly guaranteed. I'd like to have that debate with the Prime Minister. So I repeat my question. That is a perfectly normal question in this debate. Is it conceivable for the Prime Minister to agree to something that costs Dutch taxpayers money? Is it conceivable that he would agree to something that would lead to fewer guarantees and greater risks? I think that is a perfectly normal question in a debate of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u151	I just outlined the contours. Mr Buma is perfectly capable of drawing his conclusions. The contours are as follows. There's an existing program. It provides for returns in terms of, for example, debt sustainability and deficit reduction. If Greece wants to replace certain measures with other measures, they must have the same returns. The IMF, the ECB and the European Commission shall determine whether this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u152	My point is that this isn't like-dan question. It simply asks what framework conditions the government is going to negotiate with. I would point out from the answer that it is the commitment of the Dutch Government that it will not cost money on balance, but that the Prime Minister does not exclude that it will cost money on balance. So I ask the question again. Is that indeed a correct summary or am I asking the wrong questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u153	I have outlined the outlines and I am interested in the question on which Mr Dijkgraaf's concern is based.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr Dijkgraaf, would you like to explain your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u155	We have seen on a regular basis that the Dutch government's commitment is A, but that it will come back with B after the negotiations. That makes sense in itself, but as a Member of Parliament, I would like to know exactly what the framework conditions are for the government. I would like to point out from these answers that it is not impossible for the government to come back with a negotiated result that will cost the Dutch taxpayer money on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u156	I wonder how Mr Dijkgraaf could draw that conclusion from what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u157	Because the Prime Minister doesn't rule that out. He says the stakes are clear. The bet is that it doesn't cost money, but a bet isn't a tough peripheral condition, such as: Parliament, we're not going to come back with a plan that costs money on balance. I'd like to hear that from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u158	In my view, I have outlined very precisely the contours within which the discussions are taking place as far as we are concerned. I have also said that if I answer these kinds of questions, that leads to headlines not only in the Dutch media but also in the international press agencies. This applies not only to the President of the Eurogroup, the Minister for Finance, but also to me as a member of the European Council. I think it is very important that we give this process a fair chance. Everything I do and what can add to it can lead to all kinds of heads and international heads I have to avoid. I'll outline you exactly what the contours are. I am still very interested in how Mr Dijkgraaf can distill his care out of these contours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u159	Perhaps you could indicate that bet one more time in two sentences?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u160	A deal's a deal, there's a package that needs to be continued. Within that package, Greece may make changes, provided that they have the same returns in terms of the deliverables of the package. This must then be established by our key advisors: the IMF, the European Commission and the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr President, before I address the Prime Minister, I would also like to say a few words to you. The Prime Minister is a debate virtuoso; let us be honest about that. Most of the time he knows how to give answers to all kinds of questions that are often not answers, but this is all there is to it. He is now trying to put all the questions from the Chamber under questions like that. They're not. What we are trying to do here is to debate the commitment of the Dutch Government. We would like a little more clarity on this, especially on the point of whether it is also possible for the Dutch Government to agree to, for example, some debt relief, or that less money will be returned to the Netherlands. This has been a crucial element in the debate in the Chamber. I also think that the Prime Minister should give a clear answer to the Chamber on that point, and that he should not say that that is a question of then. That's very lame and unworthy of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u162	That's exactly why I got the Prime Minister to repeat what he said, because I felt in the discussion that people didn't have that on their retina anymore. He did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u163	Sure. I am also fascinated here by the way Mr Klaver has expressed his hope or fear that I would allow the political weighting in the middle to distill from the contours I have outlined here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mr Klaver, you have just made a point of order. I'm now giving you the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr. Chairman. The point was that I have not yet distilled anything from the Prime Minister's reply, because there is nothing to distil out. I would like a clear answer on this point. Is it possible that the Netherlands will agree that debt relief, for example, will come soon? That was the question. I will not distill anything from the answer, because there is nothing to distill from the words that the Prime Minister has just put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr. Chairman. I think I'm perfectly clear. There is an existing package. Changes may take place within it, provided they bring about the same result. That will have to be determined by our international advisers, which I have also mentioned, including the IMF. Deal's a deal. I think that is quite clear. I do not see how Mr Klaver's hopes or fears could be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u167	The other specific question was whether you are prepared to agree, for example, to debt relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u168	Those are like-dan questions. I believe that the answer is quite clear from the outline I have outlined. If I answer that now, it will lead to international headlines. I'm not gonna take care of that. In doing so, I am not contributing to a calm start to the euro group tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u169	This isn't a like-dan question. I would like to ask Mr Van Dijck a question from a Dutch parliamentarians to the Prime Minister about the commitment of the Netherlands and what we can expect from what he comes home with and where he draws the line. This is very important for the democratic process here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u170	I draw that line with the existing package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u171	Mr Klaver may first ask a question and then you can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u172	So I ask the Prime Minister not to dive behind his claim as a defense but to answer the question of whether the Dutch Government can agree to debt relief. That question is not so complicated at all, but it is important for the democratic process here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u173	I have clearly outlined our contours, namely the existing package, the existing agreements and the existing objectives of that package in terms of debt relief and debt sustainability. From this point of view, Mr Klaver should be able to conclude that the kind of scenarios he sets out are not conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u174	The citizens and parliament do not strike the same stone twice. We all remember the Prime Minister pressing that red button and saying, "No extra cent to Greece." But less than a month later he agreed to debt relief, which ultimately cost the Dutch taxpayer a billion. So don't come up with: those are like-dan questions. We all know the Greeks want debt relief. They want to get rid of that debt. They want to bring down the 240 billion. It's on the table. Does this cabinet agree, does the Minister of Finance agree? Is he coming home next week and he says: this costs the Dutch taxpayer another billion? Or does the Prime Minister keep his promise this time and say: not an extra cent to Greece, not a billion, not a dime, not a euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u175	I have just outlined the outline in which the Netherlands intends to conduct the negotiations. I do not think that these contours leave room for the concern that Mr Van Dijck has expressed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u176	In conclusion, this is not going to cost the Dutch taxpayer a penny extra. Or is this the third promise to be broken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u177	Once again, I have said that we are trying to bring the talks to a calmer place than they have been in the past few weeks. A number of Members have also stressed the importance of this. This includes the fact that the Heads of State or Government and the Finance Ministers do not make public statements that close any real conversation in advance. I am quite clear about this. The Chamber also has every right to know exactly within which contours the Netherlands wants to conduct these conversations. I say it again: I do not think that these contours leave room for the concern that Mr Van Dijck has expressed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u178	I just want it to be sharper. The Dutch Prime Minister therefore says that he does not consider it conceivable that the outcome of the negotiations with the Greeks will lead to debt relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u179	I have said that I do not think it is conceivable that the results of the talks with the Greeks will lead to a situation in which there will be a deviation from the existing package and the existing framework conditions of that package. After all, a deal is a deal. If necessary, measures will be replaced by other measures, but with the same revenues. This should be decided by our three advisers: the IMF, the European Commission and the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u180	That's way too many words. As a trained parliamentarians, I can still try to find my way in this, but this is one of the most important points for the coming period. I don't want to end up in another conversational confusion. Just now, the Prime Minister said that he does not consider it conceivable that the change in the arrangements will lead to debt relief. Now he's putting words back on it. So let me ask you clearly again. Does the Dutch Prime Minister consider it conceivable that the adjustments to the agreements with the Greeks in the early term or in the long term mean that there will be debt relief for the Greeks, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u181	As far as we are concerned, the discussions with Greece are taking place within the framework of the existing agreements. It concerns the existing agreements on how debt develops, how deficits develop and the existing agreements on debt repayment and debt extension. Because we clearly say that those talks are taking place within these contours as far as the Netherlands is concerned, I do not see how the scenario that Mr Pechtold here calls a possibility could arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u182	Now comes the clarity. The Prime Minister indicated that those who feared that it would cost money did not have to have that fear. That is clear from the words the Prime Minister spoke. Then I draw the conclusion that he here indicates that it is not going to cost any extra money, in any way whatsoever. I think that is the most important conclusion for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u183	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u184	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u185	Then I come to the question about Greece and its role in sanctions. Then it was particularly about the situation with Russia. That was a question from D66. In particular, it was a question of whether unity within Europe could be endangered in the case of Ukraine. Both on 29 January and 9 February Greece supported the joint approach at the Foreign Affairs Council. I am aware of the rhetoric in that context, but Greece has supported the common approach in both cases. Then I come to the question of Ukraine itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u186	Let me turn to the previous point. I understand that the cabinet is going to Greece with a certain amount of commitment and that, if you give away things already, you have actually lost them. I also understand that it is realistic that, in the long term, debt relief is needed because this simply cannot be prevented. The Prime Minister also says something else. He wants this within the framework prescribed by the troika. However, Greece has clearly indicated that it does not want to go through with this troika. What does the Prime Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u187	The three parties that are members of the troika, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund remain, as far as we are concerned, the advisers. The troika doesn't prescribe things, by the way. In the end, the Eurogroup made agreements. That is also where the competence lies when it comes to the various aid packages for the Greeks. The three institutions advise us on whether the measures taken have the intended effects or, if Greece decided to replace one measure with another, that other measure would also have the intended effect. That is the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u188	The point of the troika is very sensitive. The Greeks have clearly indicated that they do not want to go through with the troika. You can rephrase it. You can talk about advisors, but does the Prime Minister want to go through with the troika or not? Is he saying he has to go through with that trimanity in exactly the same way? Mr Juncker has indicated that this is not necessarily necessary. What does the Prime Minister say about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u189	We consider it essential that these three advisers remain in their role. Indeed, you need the Commission, the Central Bank and the IMF to prevent you from perhaps having too cosy a European conversation at some point. The presence of these three advisers in this process is very important to us. I'm coming to Ukraine. In that context, the final picture has been asked. The Dutch position, and that of Europe, is that the Minsk agreements must be fully implemented. This involves a ceasefire, a prisoner exchange, border control, the cessation of separatist support and the start of national dialogue. Ultimately, it is about actual implementation. In the meantime, the Russian State Press Office has announced that the Russian President will participate in the talks on this matter in Minsk this evening. Additional sanctions have also been requested. On 9 February, the Foreign Affairs Council decided to extend the EU sanctions list to include 19 individuals and nine entities involved in undermining Ukraine's territorial integrity. It has been decided that these measures should enter into force in principle on 16 February next Monday. This has also been done to give a chance to the French-German talks that are taking place at the moment. This means that no decision-making is foreseen at this European Council. Mr Buma and Mr Klaver and Mrs Schouten asked questions about the use of the economic weapon. I have already dealt with this in part. It is very important for the European Union to act in a united and united manner. I have already addressed Mr Pechtold's concern about the position of Greece which has not been materialised so far. Of course, tomorrow we will certainly talk about the progress of the talks in Minsk and the situation with Ukraine. We see here a great importance of progress on the diplomatic trail. It is now essential that an agreement is reached and that a further escalation of developments is avoided. The starting point is to ensure the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. That means we don't rule anything out either. There are plans for additional sanctions. Of course, you can never rule out the possibility of further sanctions in the future. That economic weapon, as Mr Buma said, is indeed important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u190	I support the way the Prime Minister operates on this. This is of course also an extremely interesting subject for the Netherlands, given everything that has happened to the MH17. The Prime Minister says that no decisions will be taken tomorrow, but that new measures may be introduced on Monday. If the negotiations on peace go wrong, then Europe will be asking again for new measures very quickly. Then what's the scenario? Is there going to be an extra summit? Is there any mention of additional sanctions, which I would understand? Can the Prime Minister sketch that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u191	Then there is a situation in which the Council of Foreign Ministers has decided to extend both the list of names and indeed additional sanctions. That happened last Monday. This has been postponed until next Monday. These sanctions will therefore enter into force in principle unless, of course, there is a very positive development in the meantime. We will certainly take stock in the European Council tomorrow. That is where we will discuss the situation that is currently taking place. There is no concrete decision-making now, especially since it is, of course, very dependent on what is happening tonight. There's nothing to rule out, of course. I have great confidence in my German colleague and my French colleague, who is taking the lead here. We are diplomatically and administratively well connected to these routes through the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is, of course, very exciting. At the moment, it is highly uncertain whether it will succeed, but I do think that we should focus all our positive energy on that now. It has been said that the Secretary-General of NATO would have said that, if necessary, arms should also be used. He spoke last week about delivering 'non-lethal aid' to Ukraine. There is therefore no question of a common arms export policy within the 26 NATO countries. There are some exchanges of views about that. A question has been asked about excluding Russia from SWIFT. The cabinet is not in favour of excluding Russia, as this would affect capital movements in a broad sense. There is also a good chance that the Russian Federation will then set up its own alternative system in cooperation with other countries. This would undermine the added value of SWIFT's global system. It would also be disproportionate for Russian citizens to shut down Russia from the SWIFT system. Finally, I come to the money. Our position is to seek the support given to Ukraine in the multilateral sphere, i.e. from the European Union and other organisations. That is our preference over the granting of bilateral support by individual Member States. This also has to do with the coordination and effectiveness of the programme. In this respect, it is important for us that the contribution, for example through the MFA, is always linked to an IMF programme and is also linked to reform conditions. Despite all the friendship with Ukraine, we must also note that there is still a great deal to be done there in terms of financial stability, macroeconomic reforms, but also in the fight against corruption. This is always part of support in European policy, also in the financial sense. This is supported by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u192	In my first term, I have just stated that the Russians will do everything in their power to divide Europe. We have proof of funding from the PVV colleagues and from Mrs Le Pen's Front National. She's going to borrow in Moscow. It cannot be ruled out that Russia also has influence in Greece, also given the way in which the Greeks are now operating towards Moscow. Many Russians own entire Greek islands. Does the Prime Minister think that the agenda should also include further explorations and clear research from Europe into what the Russians' spheres of influence on the continent are towards political parties and countries? Because we should not be naive in that: they will try to divide us. How does the Prime Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u193	This is, of course, an essential part of the diplomatic work and, if necessary, of the intelligence work, to ensure that we know what is happening and that we see what other countries are doing in our backyard. That is very important. Then I am pleased to note that it has not been possible to divide Europe. We must be very keen on this, because there are, of course, differences of opinion in Europe about sanctions against Russia. There are always strong debates about this. So far, it has always been possible to achieve good results with countries that operate more carefully, where the Netherlands has always opted for a position in the middle group, together with large countries such as Germany and France. The middle group says: the economic weapon is a powerful instrument, which must be applied proportionally where necessary and where possible. At the same time, we must avoid running ahead of it or hanging behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u194	It is evident that the Front National, a sister party of the PVV, is funded by the Russians. Other things may be less clear, but I also think it is important that agreements are made at such a summit that if we can put our finger on them, that will also come out. It may be intelligence work, it is cooperation, it is data exchange, but the European citizen must know that the Russians often try surprisingly to influence our democracy and our economy. Because they're miserable themselves, they're trying to pull us out. Everything that can be demonstrated must also be shown. Provenable? Let's see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u195	I agree with Mr Pechtold in general terms, but it comes down to the details. If we are talking about concrete political parties, let me leave the suggestion for a moment, because that is not what I am talking about, albeit I have heard the rumours about it. Of course, it is the first responsibility of the country where that political party would be, when it comes to a situation where there is real fear of undermining state security or the essential interests of such a country, because of foreign involvement in the financing of such a party. That really is a trade-off which, I think, lies primarily with a country. I'd like to introduce that nuance. But I also agree in general terms with what Mr Pechtold said on this point. I come to the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr Klaver, on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u197	I have asked questions about the sanctioning instruments and the role that SWIFT could play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u198	I have answered that question in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u199	Well, that's my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u200	You are not going to get what you want, but I have, in my opinion, put forward some good arguments as to why not. I'm coming to post-Paris. A few comments have been made on this important subject. This afternoon I have another debate with the group chairmen on this. Much is happening at the moment in terms of strengthening cooperation, particularly as regards the exchange of information. The Schengen Information System is important in this respect. Arrangements have been made to make better use of that system, both for the alerting in it and for checks at the external border. Furthermore, more and more Member States are supplying information to Europol Focal Point and Interpol. The provision of information by police services has grown further. In that context, I would like to mention a few specific points. Mr Buma asked about the discussion on the passers-by name records. As is well known, the Netherlands attaches great importance to the free movement of persons. The Council debate is currently focusing on examining the possibilities of adapting the Schengen border codes. Adapting it will allow more systematic control of European citizens who are leaving or who are indeed coming back into Europe. As you know, this cannot be done at the present time, while the threat is currently mainly caused by European citizens. This is already 100% for third-country nationals on entry. It will soon be possible to make such a check in the SIS, in the Schengen Information System, in order, as it were, to find the match between that data and the data of jihad travellers. As a result, I come to the PNR issue. Negotiations on this matter have been quiet for some time, because the European Parliament wants additional safeguards. We are very pleased that the discussion between the Council and Parliament is now being resumed. The Commission is now really trying to reach an agreement constructively. This will also lead to a number of adjustments. They will probably also deal with concerns in the European Parliament about the protection of fundamental rights, for example in the area of data protection. Those concerns have also been appointed by the majority here in the Chamber. There is broad support for the proposal within the Council and a strong will to move forward. It is expected that the European Council will strongly urge the European Parliament to call for an early conclusion of the negotiations. The Netherlands very much agrees with that call. I come to the question of whether you should work towards a European security service. That is not the position of the Dutch Government; we are not in favour of a European AIVD. However, we are in favour of a situation where Member States are responsible for this important issue, cooperate very well with each other and exchange information, so that, for example, jihad-goers can be better spotted and detected. There are also the necessary instruments for this; I have just mentioned a few with regard to Europol. We will ensure that the information on this point is properly shared. We see a clear added value. We also believe that the participation of Member States in the network can be further increased. We attach great importance to this. The emphasis is therefore on making better use of what we have there. What is the Netherlands doing to strengthen the external borders? We are committed at European level to strengthening border controls. Together with the Commission, we are now looking at the possibilities of strengthening border controls within the current system, for example the more systematic and not just the random control of EU citizens where necessary. I have already said that this is linked to the fact that not only traveling people, so third-country nationals, can be 100% controlled, that can already be done, but that EU citizens returning from Syria or Iraq can also be controlled. That brings me back to the previous point: then there must be such a match with a jihad list. The aim is to gain more effective control over jihad travellers. Finally, the planned debate on the future of European Economic and Monetary Union, EMU. I expect this to be a general discussion at this European Council, in which the Netherlands will use the lines that have often been discussed with the Chamber: we are looking for a balance between reform, putting state finances in order and investing in that triangle. I refer to the speech made by Minister Dijsselbloem in Madrid more than a year ago. We have often had this discussion here, and I think we can all agree with this. That is what the "agreement is a deal" principle is about, including as regards compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. More specific questions with regard to France and Italy will involve the Minister of Finance in his reply. I think I have done my best to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u201	Mr. Chairman. As far as Greece is concerned, the Prime Minister has clearly indicated the commitment of the Dutch Government. This commitment will be expressed in the Eurogroup by Secretary of State Wiebes and, of course, in the European Council by the Prime Minister. As far as I am concerned, the first question is what the Greek Government wants. We've heard a lot from the media, but nothing direct. The place for this is also simply the euro group. The first meeting with the new government, with the new minister, is this afternoon, at the end of the day, in the eurogroup. That meeting will begin with the question to the Greek Government to introduce itself and, above all, its plans and ambitions. The existing agreements are, of course, the starting point for us. We have simply agreed with the Greek Government a programme of content and funding. That's the starting point. Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Pechtold standing at the interrupting microphone, but he might consider making me say a little more about that. That might help, but I'm like laundry in your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr Pechtold will continue to listen, but Mr Van Dijck would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u203	I'd like to take out the stinger. The Minister for Finance, or the President of the Eurogroup............................................................................................................................................................................. We have just heard the Prime Minister say: we cannot talk about this because it costs Dutch taxpayers extra money; we want to avoid that at all times. Does the Minister of Finance take back his comments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u204	If the Prime Minister and I say 'a deal is a deal', so is the euro group, in which we made agreements with the Greek Government at the end of 2012. They were then about the content of the programme, about the funding and about a provision that saw at this point. That provision was: 1. if it is necessary, 2. if the Greek Government has fully committed itself to the content of the programme and has fully delivered it and 3. if there is a primary surplus, then further debt relief can be decided along the following lines. A number of tracks had been pointed out. We're not in that situation. Firstly, it has not been established whether it is necessary. The Greek Government thinks so, but the euro group does not. That determination can only be made on the basis of a completed programme. That was the deal we made. Secondly, the Greek Government must be committed to the content of the programme. That has not been completed at the moment. A number of reforms that were to be carried out are now stationary. Mr Van Dijck begins on a point I do not agree with. That discussion is not at issue. I'm going back to my speech. What is at issue is a starting point. There's a program now. It runs until the end of the month. It contains substantive agreements. If they are delivered, then final payments can be made. If it is to be amended, as the Prime Minister has said, this can be done within the scope of the reform agreements. The troika will assess whether these are valuable, meaningful, substitute measures. Why do we do that? Are we doing that to bully the Greeks or to show them how tough we are? We all, including the Greeks and the Chamber, have ratified the ESM Convention. It simply states that aid will only be granted under strict conditions. It also states literally that debt sustainability, as well as the assessment of the measures, will be carried out by the European Commission in cooperation with the ECB and where possible and relevant in cooperation with the IMF. That is absolutely possible and very relevant, because the IMF itself lends to Greece, so we do so together. Those are all things you can't just pull over. That's what we've recorded with each other. This is how European emergency loans work. They have strict conditions, which will be assessed. In the end, debt sustainability will also be assessed by these institutions. In popular terms, we call it the troika. The word 'troika' is not in the Treaty, but that is what these institutions are called. Decision-making on European emergency loans shall take place in the Eurogroup and in the Board of Governors of the ESM/EFSF. That's how it works. I can't even change that, even if I want it politically. That's how we recorded it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u205	Then I conclude that the euro group will never be able to arrive this afternoon at any kind of debt relief or a transition fund to give the Greeks more time. For example, there is talk of a bridging loan. All this can never be said, because the Greeks have already reversed crucial agreements on the day after the elections with the adoption of officials, with the raising of the minimum wage and what is more. Those are all appointments that were on the table, things that they would implement, but they all reversed them. So there can never be debt relief at this stage. The Minister of Finance must not come back tomorrow or next week with the message that we have given them 20 more years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u206	There are all kinds of assumptions in Mr Van Dijck's contribution. I would like to hear from the Greek Government's Eurogroup how it relates to the current programme and, above all, to the measures it has decided on. That's my first step. If we do not give any more commitment, we will no longer have a programme. They have expressed intentions; I have heard them all. We will now go to the Eurogroup and hear what plans the Greek Government has. The euro group will be subject to strict conditions if further aid is requested. These conditions are based on financial sustainability: the budget needs to be in order, which requires a primary surplus, et cetera. Greece must become financially independent. Secondly, the Greek economy must get on its feet and continue to improve competitiveness. Thirdly, the financial sector must become stable; it must become a sustainable financial sector. Those are the three cornerstones of each program. It is conceivable that you will replace programme parts in there; a new government may do so. We have also replaced parts with the Portuguese Government at crucial moments, introduced new measures and removed others. And the troika will always assess whether they are equivalent parts of the programme or reforms in the light of the three cornerstones I have just mentioned. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u207	I think it will be clear, and it will be a support for the cabinet, that all the parties here seem to say: tackle these Greeks firmly. Make sure that where they have already been able to change agreements five times, this does not just mean that there will be room again. It's just the nuance that divides us. Some say, whatever you move in time or whatever you trade out, that should never lead to debt relief. The Prime Minister has repeated that. He considered it unthinkable that any agreement should be changed, which could lead to debt relief in the calculation. Others, including D66, say that if the shifting of deadlines and so on could lead to corruption being tackled, a register being set up and that elite being broken open, you could explain that if debt relief was not to block it. Where's the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u208	I don't follow the reasoning that in order to tackle tax avoidance and fight corruption, you need to alleviate debt. I do not follow the internal logic of that reasoning. Having said that, the November 2012 agreement stands for me. The Dutch Government, its representative in the euro group, then committed itself to this. So this is not the case at the moment. It is at issue if it is necessary to define what is to be done if the Greek Government is fully committed to the content of the programme, which will be the first item on my agenda in the Eurogroup and if there is a primary surplus. The latter was the case and soon the question to the new Greek colleague will be whether this is still the case. Then we can take a number of additional measures, but in that order. Mr Pechtold asks if I am prepared to take these additional measures. He can ask this three, four or five times, but my answer will always be: this is not the issue now, I have been kept to an agreement just as the Greeks have been kept to an agreement. That agreement is: if it is necessary, if it is delivered in the programme and if a primary surplus is delivered, also in the longer term. In that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u209	I think the Minister of Finance is now clearer than he suggests. This is exactly why I asked. The starting point is no. That's exactly what he said. I quote his words: it is not the issue now, but it can be a result. Le voilà, fine! Strong agreements and not just giving away what we have negotiated. If this leads to the eurozone being held together and other agreements with the Greeks being envisaged that might be firmer than the agreements with the previous government, which wanted to agree on everything but did not stick to them, then that might be interesting. That could be part of the agreement. That is not the issue right now, I understand, because this is a political expression. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for this realistic position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u210	I merely repeated the agreement that we made in December 2012 and which the Dutch Government has kept since then, with the corresponding conditions. However, it must be borne in mind that, by definition, we will never receive this question if we do not come up with the content of the programme with the Greek Government. I have listed the terms and conditions on the basis of the previous agreements. So it's nothing new. I have been kept to the agreements, but so have the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u211	The Minister talks about the terms. He is talking about the primary surplus as one of the important conditions, and the Greeks have also said that it would be good if they could bring it down, which would enable that money to be used again to stimulate economic growth in their country. Is that negotiable for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u212	I really do not go into all the proposals put forward by the Greek Government at the moment. Since my visit to Athens, I have kept a small list of possible proposals in recent weeks. I'm not gonna respond to all these things. This afternoon we will meet in the eurogroup. The Eurogroup is the body that really decides on emergency programmes. We are also the creditors, we fund the money to Greece. It is up to the Eurogroup to first hear from the Greeks how they relate to the current programme, how they would like to change it and how they would like to proceed. It is possible that the type of proposals mentioned by Mr Klaver will be included, but I am certainly not going to respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u213	Let me rephrase my question. The Minister does not have to respond to the Greeks' proposal, but he does point out that for him the conditions previously agreed, for example those relating to the primary surplus which should be at 4.5%, are fixed for him. I take it from that that there is no mention of that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u214	I have received no proposal from the Greek authorities to adjust the primary surplus. It could be, but I didn't get this, so I'm not gonna say what's negotiable and what's not. I would otherwise be negotiating through Mr Klaver, but I do not think that would make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u215	For example, it's a bit of a tricky discussion, because it doesn't deal with what-as-questions or the terms and conditions. Let me ask the Minister of Finance otherwise: what does he think is the ultimate purpose of the talks? My objection to the November 2012 agreements was correct in saying that, in the end, there had been no sustainable debt. I thought that was a big objection. Is this really the point of getting out of here? Do we now want to achieve a sustainable debt for Greece, where Greece could finance itself again and give Greece the opportunity to flourish its economy again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u216	This was also the case with the 2012 programme. Mr Merkies did not believe that at the time, but that was also the case at the time. He concludes that he was right, but that's not based on anything. I haven't seen any debt sustainability analysis of him. I know that in the past year Greece has returned to the category of countries with growth. I would like that line to continue. One will see what that does for debt sustainability!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u217	In that case, I would advise the Minister of Finance to see which countries are always on the list of countries with a lot of growth: they are often countries that have just had a war. What's that got to do with? They've seen a huge drop before. This is what Greece has to do with. In Greece, the economy has shrunk by a quarter, while for years it has pursued a policy imposed by the troika. I hope that a new policy will now be considered and it will not be said that it should all be within the existing framework. I hope that people will not say that the result should remain the same, even though you can choose the kind of noose you want to hang yourself with. That's impossible, isn't it? We really need to get to a new policy now, don't we? For that, there will really have to be room for the Greeks, so that they can really work on real debt sustainability and we do not continue to muddle endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u218	This was a lot of opinions, but few questions. Mr Pechtold asked about the importance of 16 February. The Eurogroup will hopefully have made some progress in terms of content. It is really my intention for the next few days and weeks to see if we could get out of the programme at all; otherwise you will not even be able to talk about further aid and debt, because none of this is even on the agenda. We therefore hope to have made further progress on 16 February. That date is not insignificant, because there is a deadline for the current programme, namely 28 February. If it expires on March 1st, I can't extend it anymore. That is quite simple, because legally it would have expired. Then I come to the question: do we get all our money back? The Dutch government's commitment is that countries that borrow from each other also repay that loan, regardless of whether it is loans via an emergency fund or bilateral loans. This is widely shared in the euro group. We have indeed dealt with the conditions drastically. Between Mr Van Dijck and Mr Pechtold, the question arose as to whether we still deserve anything from the European loan and bilateral loans between the European countries. Hardly any more money is earned on that. There is only a very small risk premium of 50 basis points left. Furthermore, it is a short term Euribor coupling. It's very low right now. By the way, it may increase again in the future, but at the moment it is very low, with on top of that the small risk premium. The nominal value of loans must be recovered. That is an important principle which some really talk too easily about. This is important for trust between countries. And it is certainly important for the confidence in the functioning of our emergency funds. I've also had questions about the IRS. Mr. Klaver asked for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u219	Just for clarity on the previous point: we really don't deserve anything. Mr Pechtold suggested a number of times that we still deserve it, but that is actually not true. With that risk premium of 0,5% and that cost funding from the EFSF, you can actually say that there is no room to reduce interest rates. So it's gonna cost us money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u220	This is very technical. Greece's debts consist partly of loans from emergency funds, partly bilaterally and partly from the IMF, partly of government bonds.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The package that affects Europe is the big blow to debt relief. I notice that many economists say: this is really unsustainable, look how high the debt is in relation to GDP. But what you have to look at is the debt burden. It was drastically reduced in November/December 2012 and there is always a margin in that. People do not realize that the net present value of the debt pressure felt this year and the coming years has been reduced by 40% at that time. Everyone always talks about the large percentage of GDP and the nominal value of the loans. That's all less interesting. But what does one actually pay for interest and what is the duration? Much has already happened on this point and Mr Van Dijck is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u221	Summarizing: the remark made by the minister in the media that there may be a longer term and a lower interest rate, this means that this will cost the Dutch taxpayer more. It can't be from the margin we earn on the loan, because that margin is zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u222	That conclusion is not correct in substance. I will go back to what I said earlier: it is not until after the conditions of November or December 2012 have been met. As long as we do not have a programme or agreement on further reforms, we will not be able to do so at all. The Chamber understands my order. I have a few comments to make on the IRS. I see Mr Klaver is not here. Every time he gets answered, he's gone for a while. Oh, no, I see him. We very much support the strong commitment of the new government to realising taxation now. By the way, that is not just a problem for the rich. I am of course very much in favour of the rich paying a lot of tax, but the problem in Greece is much wider than just the upper layer. There really is a fundamental issue about culture: we simply have to pay our taxes together, otherwise we will be unable to pay social security or pensions. The government's commitment in this respect has our support. We are providing technical assistance there and we will continue to be willing to do so if we continue to work seriously along that track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u223	If I am well aware, the technical support provided by the Tax Administration is aimed at getting the tax administration's apparatus in order and ensuring that tax morals are improved in a broad sense. Now the new government has indicated its desire to tackle tax avoidance much more strictly, for example by shipowners and oligarchs. My specific question to the Minister in my first term was whether he was willing to instruct the Financial Intelligence Unit to look at how the money flows from Greece to the Netherlands. The Netherlands is also simply a driving wheel for tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u224	No, certainly not with this subtlety. There's already a huge load and a judgment in there. I won't give that order. The Financial Intelligence Unit looks at money laundering and the like. That's his job. That's what he sees. Another question is whether, if the Greek government asks for further assistance, I am prepared to provide more insight into funds abroad. We are prepared to do so. I have previously handed over a list to the Greek government of Greek yachts registered in the Netherlands. I hope that the new minister will take that list out again and see how many yachts are still registered in the Netherlands. We are very willing to do that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u225	I hope that the Minister is not only prepared to respond positively to a question from the Greeks, but also to offer the Greeks further assistance on this issue, precisely in order to tackle tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u226	I tend to say that I sometimes want to hear the question from the Greek Government. We've offered it several times. I think we've already provided twice that list. However, we have never been linked back to what happened to that list. If that request comes back, we will be happy to help, but I think it is important that this request should also be made. That's where I'm standing now. The new government has expressed ambitions in this area, as well as in the fight against corruption. That's fantastic. The Netherlands has also provided technical assistance. I hope it's all serious. Then I come to a few other topics. Mr Verheijen asked what the Netherlands will do with the discharge in the budget. The Netherlands will vote against. The error rate is still high. It is now 4.7%, the year before it was 4.8%. There is therefore no improvement. We voted against last year and many years before that. Unfortunately, we will continue to do so. As always, we go along with Sweden and the United Kingdom. We really want to suggest that the error rates in the accountability of the use of European funds should be reduced. Mr Buma asked about the state of affairs of France and Italy. That issue is not on the agenda right now. As far as I'm concerned, there's nothing new to tell. In March, the Commission will make a final assessment on the basis of the current figures. The Commission's winter estimate has shown a very small improvement in France's figures, but it is insufficient. So there is another task for France. Then questions were asked about QE (quantitative easing), monetary enlargement by the ECB. I want to be brief about that. The Chamber is aware of the view of the Dutch Government. The Dutch Parliament has and makes known its views on this matter. We take note of that. We attach great importance to the independence of the ECB. We will not argue for a change in the mandate or the treaty on this point, I say in response to Mr Merkies' question. Mr Merkies asked if the effects would be evaluated. The ECB will do that. I'm not gonna do that myself. That is not possible either, because it is of course relevant to see where it has an effect in Europe in all kinds of places in the euro area, not only in the Netherlands. The ECB will monitor this and make it transparent. There is certainly a risk of bubble formation in this type of generous, unconventional monetary policy. We need to be very alert about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u227	The minister actually says he's going to ask the butcher to approve his own meat. That's the bottom line. As Minister of Finance, you want to at least know for yourself what's going on? The aim of this policy was, among other things, to increase appropriations, for example for small and medium-sized enterprises. There is also a need to address the risk of inflation. You can do that by making sure that the question of what is rushed. If all that doesn't happen, it's pretty worrying. You wouldn't ask the butcher to judge his own flesh, would you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u228	Mr Merkies has a deep-seated distrust of the ECB. I don't share that. We will, of course, monitor lending for the Netherlands. We do this all the time, especially for SMEs. For the Netherlands, our own CBS naturally follows inflation trends. For Europe, we have European institutions for this. We will also be following with interest those reports from the ECB on credit, which he has already separated from us, in the coming quarters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u229	I would rather describe it as a healthy interest in the ECB. I think we should always be critical. Similarly, we should have been critical of the supervision of the banking sector that we also discussed yesterday when it came to the ECB in a different role, where it appears that supervision is not possible, which hopefully is still to come. But you always want to see for yourself, regardless of the ECB, in one way or another, whether it has actually led to more credits. Otherwise, it's a little crazy. Our opinion on ECB policy is then formed by the ECB itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u230	In the Netherlands, we have our own institutions that will show how lending is developing. I am thinking of the Dutch Bank, the Central Planning Bureau and the CBS. The same applies to inflation trends. Those are actually the two main indicators in terms of the effects of this policy. For Europe, we have European institutions for this, first and foremost the ECB. I repeat my answer: I am not going to change that and I have no reason to. Mr Van Dijck said that he was concerned about the voting conditions in the Governing Council of the ECB and raised the question of whether they should be changed. The ECB shall be independent. The way in which the ECB takes decisions is laid down in the Treaty. Mr Knot said at a hearing in this Chamber that the distribution of votes in the Governing Council was not due to a division between north and south but to a substantive consideration of the risks of low inflation on the one hand and the risks of a buy-back programme on the other. That substantive consideration was made in the Governing Council and voting relations have been leaked since then, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u231	I would like to return to the point made by the Finance Minister yesterday that he has good hopes that a financial solution will be found; it has not been quoted exactly, but his remark was that a solution would be found. He did not want to address what-if questions in this debate. But where does he get his hope that a financial solution will be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u232	It comes from my optimistic character structure. As President of the Eurogroup, of course, you have a duty to work towards a solution. I have looked up the quote for a moment because I do not fully recognise myself in this quote; I have literally said that we have the shared ambition to find a solution and I think that this can be done. It would be a really crazy statement if the President of the Eurogroup were to say before the sitting: we have no ambition to come to a solution together, and I do not think we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u233	The central question in this debate is where this solution lies. The cabinet says: I am not going to speculate about it, but the Minister of Finance has good hope of it. Then it is not weird that we want to know the margins within which that solution is sought. That is the central question that is not being answered here when I believe that we have the right to at least have some insight into the government's commitment. What is the cabinet going to give space to the Greeks this afternoon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u234	I think the cabinet has been really clear: a deal is a deal. This means that only in the programme could substantive measures and reforms be replaced by other measures. These alternative measures will always have to be tested and tested by the troika, whether you call them the troika or not. Then you can replace measures and give the programme a different meaning, but support without a programme and without further progress in the area of reform is inconceivable for the Dutch government; moreover, it would also be unthinkable on the basis of the ESM Treaty. That's our bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u235	Mrs Schouten, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u236	If I am keen, the Greeks are asking for a bridging loan on the basis of changes to a number of measures in the programme. So the latter is not on the list of the Minister of Finance as space he would like to give to the Greeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u237	Then we will find ourselves in all kinds of modalities and possible measures that the Greek Government will come up with. I just don't know yet. Agenda item one is on our agenda: the Greek Minister has the floor to share with us the ambitions of the new Greek Government and to indicate how he looks at the programme that lies ahead. That's item number one. But you ask: if they ask for X or Y, what do you do? This is one step at a time. I can assure you that I have enough experience of this: there will be no solution today. It's complex, it's going step by step and we're going to explore with each other what possible alternative measures look like. They must be assessed and discussed. If it goes past this line, it'll take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u238	I am very pleased that the Finance Minister has such a character structure, that is good. I do conclude that this is the only basis for his optimism. We don't have anything in the back pocket to feed that optimism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u239	A question has been asked about a ten-point plan. I don't know if that's what you're talking about, but there's no such plan. It would also be a crazy order, because there's a program and we have a new government. If a country has a new government, the new colleague will have the floor at the beginning of the sitting to explain the government's plans. This is not unique, it always happens in the euro group. That's what's going to happen today, that's the starting point. In anticipation, there are no plans and no proposals, certainly not mine, and there are no ten point plans in circulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u240	It's two-and-a-half. Or the Greeks go completely down the bend and see in that appointment is an appointment. That is not likely, because then there must be some attraction for them and that will cost money to the left or right. We have heard the answers from the cabinet, but real optimism can only be achieved if they finally get a better deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u241	During the debate, Mr Dijkgraaf made a number of statements that any adjustment would cost money. I don't quite understand that statement. The programme consists of two parts: an agreement on the type of reform and the steps to be taken by the Greek Government in the interior; on the other hand, there is phased financial aid. We will first have to talk about the reform package. Is the Greek Government still committed to that? It is conceivable that you will make changes or develop an alternative measure within that package, but I await the proposals first. Does that always cost money? No. Is that better in the Greek Government's view? Probably, because if they did, they wouldn't argue for it. So simple is my world view, so we continue over the next few days, success not assured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u242	Thank you for your contribution, which put an end to the first deadline. We'll go straight to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u243	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their answers during this week's major European meetings. I will begin this second term shortly with Ukraine. The Prime Minister's answers were clear. For me, it was very important that the Prime Minister indicated that the Netherlands had a middle position, as he called it. In a middle position it is decided that the Netherlands is always committed to good relations in Europe and with the United States. Some countries consider the latter a little less important. For me, it is very important for the Netherlands to have a position in which the United States is also involved in solving the problem at the eastern border. The second issue to be considered is the aftermath of the attacks in Paris. The CDA believes that good agreements are being made on PNR. We do not escape the fact that terrorist data must be found, and you can find it in travel data, among other things. The Prime Minister believes that progress should be made. We come back to the content, but the importance of progress is shared by the CDA. Then I come to the important subject of Greece. How do we proceed? It may have started out a bit prickly, but of course I understand that the Prime Minister says: I cannot already have big headlines in the newspapers and at the same time, as a Member of Parliament, say that we are here to control the Chamber and give orders. In the course of the debate there was more clarity about it, but from the cabinet's side there remains some uncertainty as to how hard we keep the Greeks to the agreements. What exactly is the result of shifting in appointments? Is it not true that this is an opinion which the CDA group soon turns into its own, that sliding with agreements is very soon a slide that gives the Greeks money? After all, that is what the Greek Government is after. To make that clear from the Chamber, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new government in Greece is seeking to get rid of the commitments made to provide support by Europe;]] [[believes that Europe should stick to the commitments made with Greece;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to agreements which reduce the need for reform or directly or indirectly increase the level of financial support to Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-937]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u244	I have no choice but to wish both leaders a great deal of strength, strength and wisdom at the meetings these two days. I hope that the Finance Minister will also pass on this success to the President of the Eurogroup and the Dutch representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u245	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their detailed reply. In this second term, I would like to return to one topic. I shall do so briefly so that the Minister of Finance can go to Brussels. It is important that we all be clear about Greece, as has been said many times today. We need to send a clear signal to both Greece and the other countries in the euro area that have implemented reforms. It has been said many times today, and I also say it to the rulers: a deal is a deal. Meeting agreements and respecting objectives and frameworks: that is the message we want and must send to Greece. Let me be clear about the VVD's position: whatever comes out, there can be no question that the Netherlands is going to draw the wallet and that extra euros from the Netherlands must be added. As far as we are concerned, that is not the issue. If the Greeks do not want to comply with the agreements, there is no room for Greece in the euro area as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u246	What's that? If the Dutch Government does agree, will the VVD table a motion of censure? What room does the VVD give to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u247	I've just heard the rulers. They said: we can just talk to each other; we can do that very well without the need for euros. Any modification of the package and programme will eventually have to be discussed by the Chamber. I have also heard Mr Pechtold speak firm words in the media. In any case, this is the framework that we wish to give to these govern ments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u248	It's a framework, but is it an assignment? The Prime Minister spoke of "thinkable"; the Minister of Finance spoke of a starting point. I can now hear the VVD say clearly: it is unspeakable for the largest party in the Dutch parliament that the Dutch rulers come back with an adjustment that costs even a euro. Is that the clear message from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u249	I can be even clearer: no package for which the Netherlands has to pay extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u250	I want to get that extra pay a little sharper. This is not just about the possibility of giving extra money to the Greeks, but also about the possibility of less money coming back. Is it true that the VVD doesn't agree with that either?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u251	Yes. As far as we are concerned, there will be no agreement on a package that will reduce the return of money. That leads to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new Greek Government has indicated that it no longer intends to comply with the existing conditions for the ESM and bilateral aid received, and that it will cease to cooperate with the aid providers in the form of the so-called troika;]] [[Whereas compliance with agreements is essential for the credibility of the euro;]] [[Notes that Greece should continue to comply with the agreed programme and resume cooperation with the troika institutions;]] [[calls on the Government to act in accordance with this position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Verheijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-938]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u252	But this is even more powerful: the existing programme is unabated. This means that there is no longer any possibility of a shift within the programme either. That is now stated in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u253	This is a little lame. Mr Pechtold knows that the programme offers the opportunity to exchange individual measures for other measures. I have just heard the cabinet say this very clearly. That is on one condition, namely that the result remains the same on the right under the line. The yielding power must be equal and it must be validated by the troika. So that's the program. That's what we're talking about. There's no question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u254	For the sake of clarity, I ask the following, because as a voter you could just think: gosh, I got another $1,000 or there was no money going to the Greeks, how about that again with the VVD? This means that, as far as the VVD is concerned, there should not be a euro change in the Greek debt ratio in any transfer of any new agreements that will be made immediately, now or in the future, to the left or to the right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u255	There should be no euro from the Netherlands in the result that is now being recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u256	Yeah, but, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u257	Mr Pechtold, this will be your fourth question on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u258	I admit that this is my third question, but the whole debate is about this. Mr Verheijen talks about 'from the Netherlands'. Isn't that "directly from the Netherlands" too? I just want clarity about that. The VVD fraction is always very clear, but when it comes back here, it's turned 180 degrees. Then there is again no story. So it's not circumstantial either? For the Dutch taxpayer, to put it bluntly, for the Dutch treasury, there can therefore be no negative change arising from European agreements with the Greeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u259	You often try to say it in different ways. I can't say it any clearer than this. As far as we are concerned, the outcome of this process is that the Greeks comply with the agreements and that no additional Dutch tax euros go to Greece as a result. I don't think I can say it any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u260	It seems as if Mr Verheijen has now been flagged back by his group chairman and that he needs to speak some more powerful language. Let me ask you another way. He is not talking about extra money, but of course it is also about restructuring. Doesn't this also mean longer maturity periods and no interest rate reductions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u261	As far as we are concerned, the existing frameworks are and will not be affected, apart from the fact that at the present time this would offer little relief to Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u262	I do not think that was an answer to my question. I specifically asked about maturity extensions and interest rate reductions. Does it really mean that, in no way, any money goes to Greece, not even in the form of interest rate reductions or maturity extensions? How does Mr Verheij imagine this? When's he gonna pull the plug for Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u263	I don't know why Mr Merkies is talking about pulling plugs out. I just indicated what I said. Mr Verheij has repeated this in his own words, and that is correct. That's what we're up against. That is also what we are saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u264	Our scepticism is, of course, based on the fact that we talked about 'the red button' and 'no extra money', but that it cost the Dutch taxpayer a billion a month later. It did not cost the Dutch taxpayer a billion dollars in the sense that we paid this extra to Greece. However, income from the ECB, profits made on bonds, did not come back to the Netherlands, but went directly to Greece, when we were counting on that income. That was a deal, for example. The agreement proposed this afternoon, for example, is to channel back to Greece the 1.9 billion profits made by the European Central Bank on its holdings of Greek loans. That would mean that 1.9 billion, which would actually be divided among the central banks, would not go to our central bank, and not to the state treasury, but to Greece. This does not cost the taxpayer any money, but we do miss out on income, dividends from the Dutch Bank. Is that also covered by "it can't cost us extra money"? Or does Mr Verheij say, "Well, no, that's okay"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u265	I didn't see that proposal. I've seen it come across somewhere in the media, but I haven't seen it. I believe that our position with regard to the Netherlands and the Dutch taxpayer is clear. I refer to what is in the motion and to my oral explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u266	It must not cost the Netherlands extra money, but it must also not make an extra hole in our budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u267	Mr Van Dijck takes things out of the media and puts them here. I don't know that proposal. I don't know the specifications. It's not here either. If it ever comes to this, we will vote on it. I set the frames. I think they're crystal clear. That is what I believe we should do as a parliament at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u268	Mr. Chairman. At least at the beginning it was a rather difficult debate to clarify the position of the Netherlands. I still don't know exactly how far the cabinet wants to go. At least the VVD was clear. It indicates that debt relief must not be carried out in any way, but in any way. The only option that Mr Verheijen has not yet ruled out is that the reimbursement should be linked to growth. I take it for granted that this will also be excluded. However, I have not heard very clearly from the cabinet. In my view, that leaves room for the cabinet to come home with the result where debt relief is at least in a package. I like that; let me put it first. I think debt relief is necessary for Greece. Debt relief is in the interest of the Greek people. I have already mentioned a number of figures on the social state of Greece. However, it is also in the interests of Europe and the euro area to ensure that Greece remains there. This is important economically, because if Greece were to fall out and go bankrupt, we would get even less money back. But it is also geopolitically important to be able to act together. That is why my group is tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Greece's public debt was 127% of GDP in 2010 and increased to 175% of GDP at present;]] [[whereas according to the IMF debt above 120% of GDP is not sustainable;]] [[Whereas the social situation in Greece is distressing;]] [[Whereas a majority of the Greek population has voted democratically in favour of a social solution to the problems in Greece;]] [[calls on the Government to work within the European Union to ensure that debt relief is part of the package for Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-939]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u269	I'm a little surprised at this motion. I believe that since 2011 I have tabled motions on the restructuring of the Greek debt. "Restruct" is another word for renouncing or alleviating the Greek debt. GroenLinks then voted against these motions. In retrospect, would it not have been better if there had not been every effort to grant loans to Greece, resulting in the current situation? Would it not have been better if we had said: no, we should take a different route, namely restructuring the debt and not granting all these loans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u270	I don't know exactly what the situation was like in 2011. At least I wasn't a spokesperson on this file back then. Nor did I look back at exactly how we voted on this motion. I know that Mrs Schouten later also tabled motions on restructuring. I do not know if it was in a motion, but the context was often that there could be talk of Greece's retirement. I believe that this is why we voted against, but I cannot fully remember the specific situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u271	It was always in conjunction with the question: should we grant a loan or should we ensure that debts are forgiven? GroenLinks has always chosen to grant these loans, with the result that the debt has now become unsustainable. Mr Klaver has already indicated it himself. In other words, can we not say that we are solving a problem that has been created in the past thanks to GroenLinks' voting behaviour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u272	GroenLinks has indeed agreed to new aid packages and loans to Greece. I have always indicated that debt relief should be part of the solution. I have consistently stated this in this Chamber. Mrs Schouten refers to a number of motions that we would have voted against. However, I cannot take that into account. I'm wronging her now, but I can't go into it because I can't place it properly. But I've always indicated that debt relief should be part of the solution. That's what I'm standing for now. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important to speak out for this in this way, because I do not see any other solution. In my view, Mr Dijkgraaf also said: a solution for Greece without costing money, I do not see. I think it is important that the government is open, honest and clear about this, because otherwise the support for Europe in the Netherlands will only be undermined further, and that would be very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u273	For the sake of clarity, can Mr Klaver indicate more specifically what he means by "debt relief"? Is he talking about debt relief in the broadest sense of the word? Or, according to him, does debt relief mean, by definition, depreciation on the principal amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u274	Debt relief does not necessarily mean depreciation on the principal amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u275	Mr. Chairman. It remains a bit of a semantic debate on the question: what are we going to do if Greece puts other demands on the table? The cabinet has indicated that it cannot yet address the "what if" questions. At the same time, we must now determine the room for manoeuvre that the cabinet will have at the negotiating table. In that respect, I did not think it was such a satisfactory debate, because I only got a very marginal look at the room for manoeuvre. I have heard that the exchange of measures for other measures within the objective is possible and that it must have the stamp of the troika. In my opinion, this is a rather clear story: the Greeks will be able to get over the demands they have made in the media, among other things. These demands go far beyond the framework set by the cabinet. We will therefore ask the cabinet what will come out of it, in the space that will be provided. I have indicated that we ourselves want to move in a different direction, a direction which, as far as we are concerned, offers much more perspective to the Greeks than continue to muddle on this road. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Greek Government wishes to renegotiate the current aid package and calls for a bridging mechanism;]] [[considers that this does not contribute to the sustainability of Greek debt and to the competitiveness of the Greek economy;]] [[calls on the government to commit to a partial debt cancellation linked to Greece's exit from the euro area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-940]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u276	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers to the questions about Ukraine. It remains for me to express my hope that the negotiations will take us further and that we will all strive for a good plan for the situation in Russia and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u277	Mr. Chairman. Europe today is about our prosperity, looking at the Greeks, and about our security, looking at the Russians, and meanwhile more than 300 people are drowning, defying eight metres of high waves and going through a bizarre journey to that Europe anyway. That should give us some thought. There is still a lot to defend here and there is still a lot of things that people in the rest of the world don't have here. That is why I am pleased that the Prime Minister said that such a topic should be discussed again at another summit. I think that's wise. I welcome the Dutch Government's view on Ukraine that we should continue to seek sanctions. That sounds good to me. We must work together, we must not let ourselves be separated and we must keep in close contact with the Americans about this. In relation to Greece, I hear the words'start point of the negotiations' and 'inconceivable', but in the meantime we are dealing with a new Greek government. If things go wrong there, it also means something for our economy, it also means something for our taxes and it also means something for our euro. Do we even know how to keep it together? Furthermore, I do not think that the cabinet has a clear story on this issue. I believe that the mandate of the Chamber to the cabinet might prove to be a very unwise one, namely that there is no point in making a left or right. In the short term, we are throwing sand in people's eyes, because people will think that there is no euro tax money going, while our economy is at risk and the euro area is in trouble. If one country leaves the euro, it will affect other countries. Let me put the files together: then the Russians have exactly what they want, because their weak economy will only become stronger because ours is falling apart. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are existing arrangements between the euro area and the Greek authorities;]] [[Whereas the Greek Government has indicated that it intends to negotiate the existing agreements;]] [[Whereas the Greek Government must come up with a package which will give new substance to the existing agreements;]] [[Whereas the Greek economy needs reforms that address corruption and clientelism, make the Greek authorities more efficient and open up protected professions and markets to promote new economic growth;]] [[calls on the Government not to block an agreement that revises the contours of the agreements made in order to maintain Greece in the euro area, to ensure stability in the euro area and to achieve the highest possible return rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-941]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u278	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the clear commitment that there will be no extra money from the Netherlands to Greece in the rebound, we shall say, because we have heard him say it earlier. Then it cost the Dutch taxpayer almost 1 billion euros. Hence the next motion. It must strengthen its ruling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Greece has repeatedly failed to comply with commitments and does not intend to repay the entire debt;]] [[calls on the government not to hand over any more money to Greece and not to agree to any kind of debt relief,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-942]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u279	I also assume that the involvement of the troika is also an essential condition for this cabinet. As we have all seen, the troika was kissed at the meeting of the President of the Eurogroup with the Minister for Finance of Greece. I assume that the Troika will be revived by the President of the Eurogroup at this Eurogroup meeting. The PVV has little confidence, as we know, that we will ever get our money back from Greece. In view of the recent actions and statements of the current Greek Government, confidence has only diminished. The Prime Minister has promised that all the money will come back, even with interest. It is therefore a disgrace that we have spent 18 billion on that country, when we need that money in our own country. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Greece has received 18 billion from the Netherlands and this money must be repaid as soon as possible;]] [[noting that this cabinet has cut and strained the Netherlands;]] [[whereas the Dutchman can use this money well and wants it back as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the government to inform the Chamber accordingly how and when we will get these billions back in the short term and at what interest rate, including a timeline,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-943]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u280	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the cabinet for answering the first-term questions. I must say that I found the reply of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to Greece quite clear. It's clear they're on two tracks. Reforming in Greece is important. Within the package of agreements we can move, if the measures ultimately produce the same result. At the same time, we must ensure that the debt is repaid. The conditions can be discussed if the first item is properly filled in. I think that is extremely important. Colleagues have already spoken about it, and I have already mentioned it myself: in Greece it is necessary to reform economically and, above all, fiscally, because it is a tax mess. Mr Pechtold mentioned the need to combat corruption and ensure that the preferences obtained by oligarchs in the economy are broken down again. That's really important. Another point that we briefly discussed and which, fortunately, the Prime Minister has also paid a great deal of attention to, is Ukraine. It is extremely important that a political solution is found at the eastern border of Europe. We need to find a solution through dialogue to what is currently going on there. I really hope that the agreements that may come out of Minsk this afternoon will be agreements that will ensure greater stability in Europe. I am referring not only to economic stability in the south-east of Greece, but also to stability in the east.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u281	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. I am doing this on behalf of Mr Zijlstra of the VVD. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's just a joke. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to commit to a departure from the euro area of Greece if the Greeks do not comply fully with the financial commitments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-944]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u282	There was, however, some surprise, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. In my opinion, we are going to have a very interesting discussion anyway, heard all the wordings used, such as "a deal is a deal" and "the frameworks stáán" and about the starting point, as well as the statements of the VVD. In any case, we want a real solution to be worked out. Mrs Schouten has also tabled a motion on withdrawal. I'm filing a rather nuanced motion today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, at the European Summit, to promote the preparation of Greece's exit from the euro in case this is necessary or desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-945]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u283	I said on purpose: necessary or desirable. Some groups, including mine, will say: it is desirable at all. However, I would like the preparations to be made, in case one does not come out and it is necessary. In my view, therefore, all the groups should be able to agree that we have made the right preparations at least at the moment Supreme, which the Cabinet hopes we will not be there. Otherwise we will have a delay that we do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u284	Does Mr Dijkgraaf agree with me that we should ask the Minister of Finance how much money will the Netherlands get back at all if the Greeks fall back into the drachma?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u285	Yeah, and that's gonna be tough. I have always said that our solution is not cheap either. In the longer term, it is a cheaper solution, but in the short term, you will have to lose. I think it's an interesting question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u286	The Prime Minister and the Minister are talking to each other. I therefore hope that specialist K has also heard that this question will be added to the questions of the first term, on behalf of Mr Dijkgraaf and myself. I have the feeling that V-K doesn't hear this either, but that can all happen. Ah, we've got the attention again. Since there is a motion on 'from the euro to the Greeks', Mr Dijkgraaf and myself are asking: what does that cost the Dutch taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u287	I agree with Mr Pechtold's question, but not with his summary as a 'euro' motion. The motion was just nuanced. It calls for preparations to be made if it is desirable, or if it is necessary. This is also possible in the situation where everyone may want the Greeks to stay with the euro, but they will still have to get out because there is no agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u288	Mr. Chairman. All over the story, I've missed some self-reflection. I also mentioned this in my previous story: look at how we did it. A great deal is being delivered to the Greeks, but how did we actually do it and how did the troika do it? Well, that's a little bit of a concern. Fortunately, the IMF has done so at some point. It has admitted its faults in equestrian terms. It would be good if the cabinet also looked in the mirror and asked the question: what actually went wrong in our policy towards Greece? I am also concerned that there has been no mention of Greece's serious poverty. If the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance were merely to express concern about this and to cooperate with the Greeks, that would be a signal. That would be very positive. I am concerned about the attitude of the VVD in particular. In fact, I find it totally irresponsible. It's really playing with fire. In fact, they play a chicken game: we both ride on the wall and we see who last brakes. In the end, we only get losers, because what is ultimately the solution? The conclusion may then simply be that Greece is out, that we are not getting anything back from our money at all, and that the Greeks and indeed the whole of Europe are also heavily affected. That is very irresponsible. I think it's the most important thing right now to buy time, because you need to work on some trust among yourselves. Also working out the plans will just take some time. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Troika's support programme is to run for Greece on 28 February;]] [[considers that more time will be needed for Greece to reach new agreements with its negotiating partners on a programme for the sustainable recovery of the Greek economy;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a solution which will allow more time to reach better agreements with Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-946]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u289	I would like to inform the House that, as was announced in advance, the Minister of Finance got into the car on his way to his meeting in Brussels. The Prime Minister will respond to all motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u290	Mr. Chairman. Except for the motions, there are no matters that require a response from my side, unless someone jumps up angry right now. I will proceed immediately to the examination of the motions. The Van Haersma Buma motion in part No. 937 and the Verheijen motion in part No. 938 are very similar. I must say that I find the Verheijen motion much more precise. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 937.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u291	I didn't jump up mad, but I jumped up. I fully understand that the Prime Minister asked the question that Mr Dijkgraaf and I asked, namely what a Grexit costs...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u292	He's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u293	Yeah, he's gone. Just in time. But it might well be a written answer to an A4's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u294	We're gonna see if that's gonna be easy to calculate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u295	I see that as a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u296	It's allowed within a bandwidth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u297	We're gonna try to see if we can meet that request. I'm not making a firm commitment yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u298	The motion in part No. 937 have you advised against. The judgment on the motion in part No. 938 leave you to the Chamber, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u299	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u300	Does this mean that the Prime Minister fully embraces the position of the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u301	Well, totally embraces... in the sense that what Verheijen, MP of the VVD, said here, is no matter what I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u302	In fact, it expresses what Mr Zijlstra said yesterday: if they fail to comply with our commitments, we will throw them out of the euro. In the motion, it's pretty hard. They must comply with the agreed programme without delay. If that is even the cabinet's position by now, I will see problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u303	Without prejudice to what Verheijen, I and Dijsselbloem have said, namely that changes can be made within the programme. They must be validated by the troika and produce the same results in terms of output and results. In that context, I think we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u304	The motion of the VVD has been formulated much more sharply and the opinion is left to the Chamber, but the milder version of Van Haersma Buma is not recommended. That's a news item. Normally that applies to the milder motions, but if you embrace something very sharp and later, wouldn't you say that the milder version is automatically inside?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u305	Well, this is where my favorite party is betrayed, but you were familiar with it. Mr. Chairman. The Klever motion in part No. 939 is far too generic, for example the comments on the IMF. That's not the issue right now. We have also argued this in the debate. I advise against this motion. The Schouten motion in part No. 940 does not include the use of the cabinet. I advise against this motion for that reason. The Pechtold motion in part No. 941 refers to the contours of the agreements made. The motion of the VVD in part No. I find 938 sharper again, so I advise against the Pechtold motion. The Tony van Dijck motion in part No. 942 with reference to the debate. Deal's a deal. The Tony van Dijck/Wilders motion in part No. 943 is unnecessary. That's why I don't recommend this one. The Chamber is informed at regular decision-making times. Look at the Spring note, the Autumn note, the Millions note. The Minister of Finance has previously promised to provide this information. The Bontes motion in part No. 944 is about the departure from the euro area and the same goes for the Dijkgraaf motion in part No. 945. That's not the cabinet's commitment. The cabinet's commitment is that agreement is an agreement and that we want to make the existing support package a success. Mr. Chairman. I think that's what all the motions have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u306	The Merkies motion in part No. 946 still needs to be treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u307	Let's see. I don't recommend that motion. It doesn't include the cabinet line either. There are deadlines. For that reason and with reference to the debate, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u308	In fact, the Prime Minister merely says that he is dissuading the motion because it is not the line of the cabinet. I'd still like to have another backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u309	I've outlined the whole line of the cabinet. The EESC believes that work should be carried out within the outline of the existing aid package and that this State aid package could replace measures with other measures. But this smells like a bridge credit. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u310	Bridging credit? I'm sorry, but if I wanted it to be a bridge credit, I would have put it in there. That's not what it says. It is a question of working on a temporary solution, which means that there is more time to make good, thorough agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u311	A "temporary solution" means a bridging loan. Either there is an existing aid package that replaces measures with other measures, or there is a temporary solution, but that can only be done with a bridging loan; that is what it seems to me, unless someone makes up something smarter. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u312	We shall vote on the motions before us after lunch. The lunch break is about to begin and lasts until 3 p.m.
