ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice for the continuation of the first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 24 September, we discussed with the Chamber that the idea might be that the Netherlands would not proceed to national criminalisation of the offence of aggression before the International Criminal Court would have jurisdiction over that crime. The idea was that this offer might move Mr Taverne of the VVD Group to withdraw the amendment he tabled. In our letter of 9 October last, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I proposed to inform the House of the intention of the entry into force of the national criminalisation of the offence aggression in the International Crimes Act, which would give the Chamber the opportunity to make known at that time, possibly in the event of a brief debate or, possibly, an AA and a VAO, how it thinks about it in the light of the current developments regarding the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in the area of crime aggression. We understand that the letter and our suggestion did not convince Mr Taverne of the wisdom of withdrawing the amendment. It is, of course, up to the author of the amendment to deal with it or not. The government will keep the proposal. We understand that there are Members who need to have the possibility of having a further debate with the government on national criminality. That is why we want to maintain the offer. If at any time the Chamber and the First Chamber were to agree to the present legislative proposals, they could be brought into force and brought into force, but with the exception of the criminalisation of the crime aggression in the International Crimes Act. The entry into force of the national criminalisation will only be dealt with if the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court has been activated through a number of participating countries. The Court is aware that this activation requires at least 30 ratifications of the relevant Kampala amendments, plus a decision by the Contracting Parties, which cannot be taken before 1 January 2017. In any case, if the Chamber can agree to the proposal, the legislative proposals can simply be put to the vote, with the certainty that the introduction of the criminalisation of aggression in the Netherlands will eventually be subject to further discussion. The Chamber could, in due course, state in simple motion whether, taking into account everything, it would also consider it desirable to introduce it in the Netherlands. In the light of that thought and the fact that, despite not withdrawing the amendment, the government maintains the offer to deal with the Chamber and, of course, the First Chamber in this way, I will have to dissuade Mr Taverne's amendment on behalf of the government and also on behalf of my foreign colleague, Mr Taverne, but that will not surprise Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u3	But he still has a question about it. Go ahead, Mr. Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u4	I shall come back to this in my second term, but the suggestion has been made that the Chamber may, in due course, decide on a motion on whether or not to enter into force in the Netherlands because the KB still has to be struck. Does the Minister agree with me that beating up an KB is an autonomous competence of the government and that any wish of the Chamber laid down in a motion could therefore be avoided relatively simply? In other words, of course we trust the Minister on his word, but strictly speaking, it is not a curious thing to say, but rather an innovative way of dealing with a possible wish of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u5	I fully agree with Mr Taverne's final conclusion. It's definitely pure and presumably an innovation as well. Maybe it's a novel. I also think that perhaps it should not be followed up in a broad sense, because it is an innovative way of shaping the constitutional process. I'd like to acknowledge that. However, I do not agree with Mr Taverne that it would mean that, after this offer has been made in the Acts of the Second Chamber of the States-General, the government can say: we have said it once, but you know what we are doing, we will beat that KB, because then we will be done. That would be contrary to the good relations and the constitutional relations between the government and the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u6	In view of the Minister's previous words that he hopes that this will not set a precedent, it would be almost counterproductive to lay down in the Acts. It is, however, a good thing that it has happened, especially in view of the fact that the cabinet is maintaining the offer. Maybe this road will eventually find more imitation than is now foreseen and hoped probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u7	I think we should be realistic about this being a unique situation. On the other hand, we have the International Criminal Court, which is based in the Netherlands and on which we are proud of our international ambition with The Hague as a city of peace and justice. On the other hand, we have an amendment to a treaty which the Netherlands has been a great supporter of for years. As a result of moving insight, but perhaps also because I am looking at Mr Sjoerdsma because of the way in which the International Criminal Court is currently operating and functioning, we also have doubts about this. It is then conceivable that we can work together to find a good way to do justice to the debate that took place on 24 September, but at the same time, as a host country, we will continue to fulfil our international obligations or our thoughts. This point was rightly raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. To this end, this novel has been developed. I understand very well that Mr Taverne says: it does not lead me to decide to withdraw the amendment. Anyway, I said what I said about the amendment. I have to say, however, that I very much appreciate the exchange we have had on this subject. Whatever the outcome, I am very pleased that we have been working together to find a way to do justice both to the interests of the Chamber and to those of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u8	In the previous part of this debate, we talked about the Minister's legal flexibility. It's always good to see him do flexible exercises in the legal sense. However, I would like to add that this was specifically intended to give the VVD Group a period of reflection. I believe that the other groups have also indicated that they could justify this under those conditions. But now that the VVD Group has indicated that it is maintaining the amendment, my group no longer needs this reservation from the cabinet or whatever you want to call it. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Members whether other groups do have that need. If that is not the case, if the VVD does not wish to make use of it, it is better to clarify and immediately simply have a normal Chamber judgment with normal consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr Servaes put that question to the members of your Chamber, President. It's not for me to judge that. When I look around, I do not see people rushing to the microphone to deal with Mr Servaes' suggestion. This brings me to the conclusion that at the end of my speech I came to the first term of the cabinet. I would ask you to allow me to leave your Chamber in the light of the fact that I am expected to arrive in Brussels this evening to attend tomorrow's so-called JHA Council in response to the attacks in Paris. I would kindly ask you to check with the spokesmen if they can agree that I should withdraw from the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u10	These spokesmen, all of whom, of course, attach great importance to a good representation of the Netherlands in Brussels, will certainly agree to this. I note that no one objects to it. I wish you every success in Brussels. Moreover, I can imagine that the spokesmen will be able to comment on the question raised by Mr Servaes in their second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. While the Minister of Security and Justice is still here, he can immediately take the reaction to the cabinet's proposal, which actually means that the Chamber now agrees to the Kampala amendments in order to discuss with the Cabinet afterwards the added value for the Netherlands of the crime aggression. The Minister for Security and Justice has indeed put a special proposal on the table. Mr Servaes called it 'legal flexibility' and the Minister called it 'a novu'. It is. It is original, but it is also a bit of a legal magic trick when I read back the letter from the cabinet, which means that the cabinet wants to obtain the assent of the Chamber to discuss the Dutch issue again afterwards. The core of the debate last time was not Dutch legislation. I cannot speak for other colleagues, but at least that was not the point for me. The core of the debate was the Criminal Court side. I appreciate the creative effort made by Minister Van der Steur, but my group cannot support this proposal. In the first term, I explained my concerns. These concern in particular the unfortunate timing of the activation of the Kampala amendments. I will not repeat it all, but we all know that it is about the limited number of convictions, about the impunity of Bashir and Kenyatta, about the witnesses who are disappearing, about a calving support base in Africa, about a lack of finance and about the quality of some staff. In my group's view, the activation of "aggression" does not facilitate the position of the Criminal Court. I have therefore explicitly asked the Ministers and called on them to do everything in their power to strengthen their support for the Court of Justice. The Minister reported that there have been talks, also at Botswana's invitation. What's come out of that? My group also sees room for greater commitment on that basis. Mr Servaes will be tabling a motion on this in a moment. My group has argued that if the point of aggression is added, it is very important that we follow the Norwegian plodge's priority proposal, the so-called Norwegian plodge, with conviction and determination. The Minister was in principle positive about this, but I think it would be a good idea as a Chamber to strengthen that principle in order to avoid the snowing down of the so important crimes already under the control of the Criminal Court. These crimes are already in a difficult position. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the International Criminal Court has limited capacity in the exercise of its jurisdiction;]] [[Considers that, in exercising its jurisdiction, the International Criminal Court should give priority to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes;]] [[calls on the Government to take over the Norwegian position on prioritisation in the exercise of jurisdiction by the International Criminal Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Servaes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33865-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u12	I'm here to talk about the support. I asked the Cabinet to look at scholarships for African students in the field of international law. The cabinet has indicated that it is doing so. I ask the Minister whether concrete results have already been achieved or are to be expected in the short term. I also asked the Cabinet to strengthen the protection of witnesses and victims. That's crucial. There are very important things that ultimately cannot happen because witnesses disappear and are likely to be murdered. That's unacceptable. The cabinet now says it wants to make a contribution. Last time, the Minister said that he could not see that in a minute and that his budget was tight. I saw today that the Minister embraced a 35 million shift. I ask the Minister whether he has now looked at the amount of money available to these witnesses in his budget. I also ask for a little more ambition in the area of the Victims and Witness Unit. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of ensuring that victims of these most serious crimes are entitled to justice during the administration of the International Criminal Court and that these victims are adequately protected;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to additional funding from the Netherlands for the Victims and Witness Unit, to call for a broad increase in the budget of this unit at the forthcoming meeting of States Parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33865-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u13	I also asked the Cabinet to ensure that the prosecutor's budget increases as the number of cases increases. I have not received an answer in the first term, while the Assembly of State Parties is now in session and there is now an opportunity to talk about this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the UN Security Council has the power to refer situations to the International Criminal Court without bearing any financial consequences;]] [[calls on the Government, at the next meeting of the State Parties, to call for the Office of the Prosecutor's budget to be increased automatically as more cases are opened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33865-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u14	I also asked the Minister what he was going to do with South Africa and Bashir's escape from that country. In 2010 there was an immediate statement by Ashton and immediately an EU démarche when Bashir travelled to Chad. This reaction from the European Union now seems to be lacking, and such a joint response is crucial. Finally, therefore, the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands as a host country has a special responsibility for the International Criminal Court;]] [[Whereas a common EU response is desirable when Treaty States fail to act when a person sought by the Criminal Court is on their territory;]] [[calls on the Government to actively commit itself to a common EU response when the agreements with the Criminal Court are violated by treaty states,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33865-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. It is appropriate that we should discuss this issue today, while at the same time the parties to the treaty are meeting in The Hague on Kampala and the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. In the first term, my colleague Van Nispen outlined the reasons why the SP believes that the Netherlands should ratify the extension of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court with the crime of aggression. He also mentioned the support for the International Criminal Court, which we believe could be improved. He has wondered whether this is the time to reach an extension of jurisdiction with the crime of aggression. However, we believe that this must be done now that it is in the pipeline. It is very important that the crime of aggression mentioned is one of the most serious crimes imaginable. It is called the ultimate international crime, the crime from which many other crimes result. It was already decided in the establishment of the Criminal Court that the crime of aggression would be part of the jurisdiction of the Criminal Court. In 2010 this extension was agreed by all parties in Kampala, also by the Netherlands, after long negotiations. The SP very much hopes that the effectiveness of the Criminal Court will be enhanced and that it will contribute to a stable international legal order. This is very important for a trading country like the Netherlands. It can also be assumed that this extension of the jurisdiction of the Criminal Court will act as a deterrent and that it will contribute to the fight against impunity. Unfortunately, the latter is still desperately needed in far too many places to date. In the recent letter of 9 October, the Minister writes that the activation of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court with the crime of aggression requires a decision of a two-thirds majority of the parties to the treaty. This decision can therefore only be taken after 1 January 2017. Furthermore, the International Criminal Court can only exercise jurisdiction over the offence of aggression if that crime has been committed from one year after 30 contracting parties have accepted or ratified the relevant Kampala amendments. I understand that to date 24 countries have done so. I hope that the Netherlands will soon ratify it, so that it can enter into force in the first 30 contracting parties over time. This is without prejudice to my support for a number of motions tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, which will promote the practical functioning of the Court of Justice. I also refer to the budget motion for the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u16	With a great deal of what Mr Van Bommel has to say, we certainly cannot disagree, because the principles outlined are facts. He says he will support a number of amendments to improve the situation, as tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma. That means that he also believes that there is something to improve. Without wishing to repeat the debate, also because two different spokesmen have taken part in it, I have a short question. Mr Van Bommel is very quickly ignoring what even the cabinet supports in the last letter, namely that many things are not going so well with the court. There is much room for improvement, with the current powers alone. Does Mr Van Bommel think that only increasing the budget is sufficient after the power has been extended to allow the court to be successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u17	For the sake of order, there are a number of motions for resolutions and not amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Taverne rightly points out problems at the Criminal Court. There are. Problems of acceptance and practical implementation of jurisdiction. Mr Sjoerdsma's motions do not repair everything that could or might need to be repaired at the Criminal Court. However, we consider this court desirable. In the legal sense, we consider this to be an ultimate court, following on from what is national in the field of law. We want to give this in as many places as possible, where necessary, that stut which is available, especially from the Netherlands. I believe that we, as host countries, also have a special responsibility. I agree with Mr Taverne that more needs to be done than the motions do, but as far as I am concerned, we need to work on this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr Van Bommel seems to think that adding powers to those that are not already being used optimally is going to provide the solution. That seems complicated to me, because what they can already do is not yet being optimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr Taverne's reasoning is perfectly logical and correct. I agree. The House of the International Criminal Court is a shaky house, but I think we should move on. As with existing houses, you can also improve the foundation while leaving the house, which is sometimes necessary to prevent the house from collapse, we will also have to do both trials at the Criminal Court at the same time: make the foundation better and also ensure that we can continue to complete the dismantling of the house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u21	In his second term, Mr Taverne may make all the comments he wishes to add to this debate on the interruption with Mr Van Bommel. I give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say that Mr Van Bommel apparently has not yet experienced a foundation renewal in his home while he lived there. I've seen it up close. That's gonna be hard to keep in the building. On 24 September we discussed in detail the desirability of the amendments. My group is still very concerned about the future stability of the Criminal Court. Reference has already been made to the spiritual, intellectual and legal flexibility of the Minister of Security and Justice because of the suggestion he made last time in the first term. Mr Sjoerdsma even called it a legal magic trick. In any event, in the opinion of the VVD Group, the letter shows that the proposed solution is inadequate and that the addition of the offence of aggression to the jurisdiction of the Court will not contribute to the solution of the problems, but rather add something to it. According to the VVD Group, the letter only reflects in writing what the Minister of Security and Justice has already promised in the debate. The solution proposed, the subsequent adoption of the Royal Decree, does not appear to have been further developed. The constitutional implications of giving up this autonomous power of the government are not reflected in the letter. According to the VVD Group, the Minister's explanation in his second term of office did not add enough to that. This strengthens my group's suspicion that the legal basis of the proposed solution is weak. A subsequent government can quite simply beat the Royal Decree, without the assent of the Chamber. Nor does a commitment in the Acts help to achieve this. That is and remains the government's autonomous competence. Apart from that, the letter also showed that after 2017, the Netherlands is bound by international law to this new definition of the crime aggression. There is a decision in principle before us today. Do we agree with an irresistible definition, which merely leads to greater politicisation of the Criminal Court, and thus, in practical terms, to an expanding budget and the need to add even harder to what is already missing? Or do we say: let us just be realistic and establish that now is not the right time to grant the Criminal Court additional powers? After the first deadline of 24 September, my group had expected that the concerns raised by a substantial part of the Chamber would have been translated into the letter received by the Court on the first term. This letter may have moved a number of points and commas, but its essence is still that, in the opinion of the Cabinet, there are no urgent problems with the Criminal Court. In the opinion of the VVD Group, the cabinet is thus too easily ignoring the obvious problems and the lack of support. As we read in the letter of 4 November, no brown bag lunch will help, neither side events nor the subject in conversations. That's not enough. It also gives insufficient confidence in a solution. After more than five years, there are only 24 countries that have ratified the changes. Those are really very few in five years, because there are 119 states party to the treaty. Since the signing of the Kampala amendments, only nine countries have become parties to the Rome Statute. First, many more UN countries must become parties to the Rome Statute, and the Court must implement what it can do better before we extend the Court's powers. That is why I am maintaining my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my colleague, Mr Oskam, I would like to thank the directors for their first-term response. My colleague, Mr Oskam, pointed out in the first instance that our group supports the legislative proposal as far as the extension of the definition of war crimes, such as the use of poison gas, is concerned. This is different from extending the jurisdiction of the Criminal Court with the crime of aggression. The bill now before us can have far-reaching consequences for the Criminal Court itself and for the Netherlands. Our group has asked a large number of questions about this, for example on the definition and scope of the definition of aggression, the possible persecution of friendly government leaders and even our own members of the cabinet, the possible repercussions on future military action by the West and the support and functioning of the Criminal Court. Unfortunately, I have to say that my group's concerns have certainly not been removed. The Security Council's security valve, which was also discussed during the first term of the debate, Mr Servaes spoke about it, was pierced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Even more important is the sensitive definition of aggression. Consensus was reached on this definition in the 1974 UNGA Resolution. A large number of actions may be covered. It is not just a military invasion by one country in another, but also an annexation of territory and occupation, even if it is temporary. In addition, it is also about sending armed gangs through or on behalf of a state that engages in armed acts against another state. Is this not far too political to leave to the judges of the Criminal Court, or to our own prosecutor or our own judiciary? The Minister of Security and Justice admitted that in theory the prosecutor can also prosecute Dutch ministers. It cannot be ruled out that such a thing happens, even in the case of humanitarian intervention. After all, that too can be considered aggression. The same applies to a future raid without a UN mandate, such as that of Bush in Iraq at the time. The Netherlands is host country of the Criminal Court. This was discussed in detail in the debate. That weighs too. At the same time, in the opinion of our group, we should also want to be a host country for, for example, American former prime ministers or British former prime ministers who come here, without being at risk of being prosecuted for aggression. Even though the Minister of Security and Justice is absent, I would like to congratulate him on his creative discovery. Some call it agility. I'm getting all kinds of footage. Let me keep it to a creative find, namely the finding to bring some parts of the bill into force at KB and to inform the Chamber of its intention in advance. The Chamber can indeed try to pull the emergency brake by that time. However, the Ministers also know that the government can ignore this emergency brake, and that a motion can be rejected. So our group is not going along with this proposal. I would also like to say this to Mr Servaes, who asked how the political groups view it. So if Mr Taverne puts his amendments to the vote, I will advise my group to vote for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. I can see that I have ten minutes' speaking time, but I promise you that I will certainly not use it. All the arguments have already been exchanged. There's a lot to say about crime aggression. The fact is that it has already been mentioned in the Rome Statute, that consensus has been reached among the States Parties and that even external parties such as the United States of America could not be unimportant in this respect with the way it has been formulated. My group is therefore in favour of the adoption of the Kampala Protocol being added to the Court and the Court having full jurisdiction over it. I agree with those who believe that the greatest priority should be in the worst crimes when the Court of Justice goes to work. That is precisely why I signed Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. The debate we have had here on crime aggression should not be confused with the global debate on doubts and matters that the Criminal Court is currently dealing with. It's two different discussions. There is no other way, because the latter is about the jurisdiction that the Court already has. I know that the Minister is committed to continuing to involve countries in these discussions and that he is trying to convince countries that it is important. However, we are seeing problems in the African region in particular. In order to encourage the Minister to do so with even more conviction, if possible, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands as a host country has a special responsibility for the International Criminal Court;]] [[calls on the Government to play a leading role in maintaining support for the International Criminal Court in general and among African States in particular,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33865-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u25	Finally. The king gave a speech at the General Assembly of the United Nations. He used it as a key concept that should not be the right of the most powerful, but the power of justice. With that central message from the king, but also from the city of The Hague and from this country in mind, I would like to stress once again the importance of the International Criminal Court and of this protocol in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their efforts and ask for them in the second term. I think that this is an extremely important debate, which is being held precisely at the time of the meeting of the parties that is currently taking place in The Hague. Over the last few days, I have realised how important it is for a number of ministers to see this happening here in The Hague. I have had a number of discussions, for example with the Minister of South Africa. I shall come back to that in a moment, given Bashir's sensitivity. I also mention the importance attached to the Netherlands as a country where the court is located, but also as a guardian of international law. I would also like to mention the predictability of the Netherlands in international negotiations and then their conclusion. I have already been able to say on behalf of the government in the first place how important this element of aggression is. During the ratification of the Rome Statute, there was broad consensus within the Chamber and also within the international community on the idea that this is one of the most serious international crimes. That's determined by the Nuremberg and Tokyotribunales. That is why it has been said that crime of aggression must be included. There was broad agreement, including in this Chamber. That was actually shared by the political leadership of all the major parties in this country. When the ICC was set up, which was supported in a broad sense, there was therefore a strong consensus on the inclusion of the crime in the statute, which, of course, has to be defined. You could say that there was therefore some kind of dormant jurisdiction over the concept of "aggression." Now, after many years of very good negotiations, consensus has been reached, involving everyone, including countries that are not even members of the International Criminal Court. I call the United States and China. These are countries that wanted to be involved, and we also wanted them to be involved in this important issue. It is said here and there that there is now a problem with the support for the International Criminal Court. Yes, that's what I'm going to come back to, but there isn't at that point. That is precisely where the members of the Security Council are directly involved in the discussion. I believe that this is important, because it also includes all kinds of guarantees. Mr Taverne spoke earlier in the debate on the politicisation of jurisdiction. Of course, this issue of aggression is primarily for the Security Council. However, as is the case with the International Court of Justice, and also with the current elements of the International Criminal Court, there is, of course, always an element of justice. This country stands for international law. At least that has been the case so far. This was also shared by the major parties in this country. I think it is a good thing that the lawyers, on the basis of Nuremberg and Tokyo, and indeed the entire international community, have achieved a unique consensus on this definition of aggression. It has been a very long time. And meeting is something you try to achieve with each other. You can't shoot that in one day because all of a sudden you're thinking it might not be a good time. It's a very serious matter. The definition has been drawn up in an extremely precise manner. It is a clear violation of nature, but also of seriousness and scale on which there can be no reasonable difference of opinion. Then they also said: then we must also clearly install checks-and-balances in order not to give the impression in any way that this could go wrong. That is exactly what happened then, including the body that a number of critics have said should be the only body, namely the Security Council. Those members themselves are involved in this definition. It is therefore built in that there will be a final decision after 1 January 2017 and the 30 states we mentioned earlier. On a large number of points, the Dutch Government has offered arguments and counter-arguments. In the second period, I did not hear any counter-argument which addressed our argument, in particular from the VVD Group. It has been said that we disagree. We have indicated what the checks-and-balances are and we have made it clear that there is no politicisation of the law. There has been no mention whatsoever of some of the issues relating to the principles, the Viennese law, etc. It is very difficult for the Dutch government to remain internationally credible if you negotiate for so long, is fully supported by parliament and then, when everyone looks at the Netherlands, suddenly hears from the Chamber that the Chamber is not participating. There are arguments that are not endorsed or made understandable and there is no discussion of the government's arguments in any way. I think this is serious, because it puts the role of the Netherlands and the reliability of our country at risk in international negotiations. I regret that. Everyone's entitled to their opinion. Next, in the light of new visions that may arise or considerations that I consider legitimate, the government has offered a compromise, I would add, thanks to the ingenuity of my colleague, Mr Delors, to respect the feelings that lie here in the Chamber. I understand those feelings and think they're legitimate, although I don't share them. The Chamber will say again: I'm sorry, but we're out. I think that is serious enough to name it as such tonight. I am in favour of a substantive debate and I will come back to a number of points. I said what the definition of aggression is. How can it be that so many countries agree on this, that all the lawyers are involved and that it is just said here: by chance we do not agree with it? It may be legitimate, but isn't it also a question of reaching an agreement? I really need to get it off my chest. All parliamentarians may have their own opinion, but a certain degree of consistency can be expected. Until last year this issue has been discussed in this Chamber and the government has received no indication that the Chamber would disagree with it. There have then been no new elements in reality. I do not understand why there is so little response. In this case, of course, I am talking about the VVD and the CDA groups, and I say it honestly, who are simply saying: we are not participating. I regret that, but it's your right. The government's proposal stands. Mr Van der Steur said the same thing. Everyone can have the opportunity to see whether this compromise is reasonable in the light of the international situation and the legal arguments that have been exchanged. There are a number of points that I think make sense. They deal with priorities in the Criminal Court, support and funding. I think that is a reasonable argument which I shall go along with in this way. I also think that we can very well accommodate the Chamber on a number of points. In that light, I would like to conclude with a number of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u27	Before you do that, I would like to give the floor to Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u28	An unsuspecting listener might almost think that the Minister here is getting vicious in his qualifications of the Chamber's composition and would almost think that the Minister did not attend the first term of the Chamber. In the first period, we had a fairly substantive debate on the intellectual and legal flexibility that has been widely discussed and celebrated. The Minister also took an active part in this, but his colleague in the field of security and justice was still a little more active. The Minister is putting together a number of things that I would like to respond to, because they are not entirely in line with reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u29	An interruption is intended to ask a question, and I am happy to give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u30	I'm gonna do it in the asking form. It is very good that, after long negotiations, this description of the crime has come to fruition; the Minister has said something about this. Does the Minister consider that if a process of negotiation has led to a result, the opinion of a national parliament on its legal quality can be justified by the fact that this has been negotiated for so long? That's a hell of a misdemeanor. Does the Minister agree with me that it is a curious argument to say that I personally did not go into the content of the cabinet's proposal in the second term? In fact, I have made a number of comments, including the fact that no response has been given to the constitutional implications. Furthermore, there is not very much to go into the cabinet's proposal, because the cabinet simply wrote down what it put forward in the first term. It's not much further worked out either. The Minister of Security and Justice, who has now left, said in the second term: "It is a novel. Yeah, it's got hooks and eyes all over it. We should try it sometime." I think it is a magic trick, so it is also referred to by others as "the best way to put it" that it is an extremely thorough and good idea to fix this way. I do not think it is appropriate for the Minister to accuse the Chamber of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u31	I don't blame the Chamber at all. I spoke in particular about one of the government groups. Of course you have the freedom to say what you want. You are a Member of Parliament and you decide. I'm not doing that. I'm just putting forward a proposal. I would just like to point out that it is not easy for the Dutch Government if in February 2014 the members of the VVD group make comments that go in a diametrically different direction. You know them yourself, see the report of the February 2014 written consultation. I do not think you can say that within a year there will suddenly be a need for a different political view on all fronts. This makes it extremely difficult for the Dutch Government to enter into international consultations. Of course you have every right to say what you want. I am merely saying that it will not be easier for an important government group to report exactly the opposite in February 2014. Apparently because there is another spokesperson or a new spokesperson, I cannot judge that. It is simply said that this is a matter that we do not like. You can do all that. You may also have arguments for it, but that is where the heart of the matter lies. Let's just drop it. You have every right to your opinion and I have every right to mine. I would have liked to change it a little bit more. What exactly is the problem with the definition? How is it that the whole world agrees? Have they seen it so terribly badly? Is it true that it is not something that has been under discussion since 1998 because of ratification? Isn't it a sleeping jurisdiction? Didn't we tell you in all kinds of ways how we could get to checks-and-balances? I would like to hear the counter-arguments, but unfortunately they have not been exchanged. The government stands for ratification. I hope it can get a majority in the Chamber. In this context, I would like to comment on the motions tabled and on the questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u32	But Mr Taverne may first ask a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u33	I am very surprised at the answer to my first-term questions. Again, does the Minister have any reminder of the first term and discussion we had with the Minister? In addition, we can only refer in this Chamber to what has been discussed in this Chamber, because would it also be possible for the Minister to be informed at other times through other channels of the possible objections of the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (VVD)? Is it possible that there has never been a response? In other words, is the surprise which the Minister is feigning about the possible renewed understanding of the VVD Group quite so spontaneous? I conclude with Frits Bolkestein's words that only people without opinions never change their views. The same applies to political groups. I find the Minister's reasoning curious that the renewed insight does not concern him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u34	It may be good to exchange this, with all due respect to Mr Taverne and his views. I think it's very legitimate. He's a lawyer and knows his business, let there be no misunderstanding. I do not think it is a problem at all that a group should change its position. It is a legitimate right of every parliamentary group and every Member of Parliament to say: we see things differently, we do not. I'm just saying honestly that I regret the way it went. A vision emerges in the first term and the government responds to it. You expect people to come up with counter-arguments. Unfortunately, I haven't heard that one, and I find that in such an important case less than adequate. I've heard a few aspects. I will go into that in response to Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Knops. They have also put forward a number of elements. I would point out that that is a pity. I can tell you that, can't I? It's an important case. It's okay to have a difference of opinion on that. I respect that and just wait for the vote. We're Democrats. However, I would say that it is complicated if this happens very briefly on an important issue in the field of international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u35	I do not want to go into what would have been exchanged outside this Chamber or not, and what warnings would have been given by which groups. However, I would like to comment on one of the arguments put forward by the Minister himself, because he so strongly invited. He said something about the support. I'm not talking about the African support. It is about the support for the Kampala amendments, not in general terms. He says: we have tried very hard to keep the United States on board, for example. I have just looked at what the United States is thinking about this and I do not want to deny it to the Minister. Under Secretary of State Sewell, in April of this year I am sorry, but I have to quote it in English. I will take out the two higlights: "grouped about the potential of these amendments to have tax negative effects" and "grouped that the risks of these amendments outweigh the benefits." She says they have three very serious concerns. The first is that intervention will no longer take place where the legal basis could be questioned and that it would therefore affect the ability of states to intervene, even in situations where intervention would be required from a humanitarian point of view. The second is that it is at the heart of the mandate. The question then is what it means for those other crimes. That is an argument that my group has also raised in the first term. The third is that it affects the ability of the world to resolve conflicts together, if it is disposed of in this way. I would ask the Minister whether he is sure that the United States still supports these Kampala amendments and what he thinks of them, because they partly overlap with what my group said in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u36	Thank you for that question. The first is the content and usefulness of the Kampala amendments on the crime of aggression. Could the definition of the offence of aggression somehow lead to a situation in which, for example, certain interventions could no longer take place? There are two aspects to this. The first relates to the procedure. That's what I've been calling it for a while. This has also been important for the United States. This is mainly about the possibility of creating an opt-out or not and even becoming a member of the International Criminal Court, and then saying ourselves: we are not participating. That was important to them. The second concerns the way in which this is done. I have already said in reply to the questions that the requirement of legality has been met. That was one of the groups in the United States. So no crime without the law. In addition, there was the doctrine of resilience to protect. There too it has been established that this requires a Security Council resolution. With regard to the second element, Mr Sjoerdsma has mentioned a concern which I share. It has to do with the question of whether you should give it the absolute priority over what the court is already doing. He asked a question about that too. We have also discussed this with the Norwegians, about removing that part of the group that I do share. That's the Norwegian statement. I see this also coming back to Mr Sjoerdsma's motion: calls on the Government to take over the Norwegian position on prioritization and the exercise of jurisdiction by the International Criminal Court. I'd be happy to. I'd be happy to leave that motion's judgment to the Chamber. Then there's the third element. I've lost that point. I would ask Mr Sjoerdsma to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u37	In fact, the Minister has dealt with the three elements I mentioned. There was no fourth. I would like to go back to the core of the question of acceptance. It is true that the United States, shortly after or actually at the Kampala conference, issued a fairly positive but very brief statement. However, I must also conclude that they assumed that the period after that would be used for further consultations on exactly what this means. When I see the statement, the United States is disappointed. I therefore ask the Minister: do the United States still support this, as the Minister has just said in his term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yes, I honestly have the impression that that is the case. Make no mistake about that. This is due to the fact that the US is actively involved in this discussion and, of course, it was mainly about the procedure on how the Security Council would be involved. I think that's the heart of the matter, and I think that's where the checks-and-balances lie. I'd love to hear it if it wasn't. I'm very real. People can't agree with that. So I would like to say once again that it is precisely this substantive debate that concerns me. I'm getting to the motions. In the motion in part No. 9, by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Servaes, the Government is invited to take over the Norwegian position on priority in the exercise of jurisdiction by the International Criminal Court. We will. I think it is important to ensure that, at least in the years to come, as this element of aggression, we must, of course, slowly land, and we must also give priority to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. These countries also depend on the number of ratifications and the 30 votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u39	So you're leaving the verdict on this motion to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u40	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. In addition to additional funding for the Victims and Witness Unit, the government is invited to call for a broad increase in the budget of this unit at the forthcoming meeting of States Parties. We announced today at the meeting of Contracting Parties a first amount for that trust fund for relocation. This amounts to €175,000. This amount may also increase; this will also depend on what other countries are doing. It is intended to provide financial support for members who are threatened and for witnesses who are re-established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u41	What is your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u42	I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 11. It states that the UN Security Council has the power to refer situations to the International Criminal Court without bearing any financial consequences for this. The motion calls on the government to argue at the next meeting of States Parties that the Office's budget should automatically be increased as more cases are opened. That seems perfectly logical to me. We must, of course, take a look with our colleagues to see whether that will be saved and whether everyone agrees with us. In any case, we are very willing to do so. I shall therefore also leave this motion to the House. In the motion in part No. 12 states that the Netherlands as a host country has a special responsibility and calls on the government to actively engage in a common EU response if agreements with the International Criminal Court are violated by treaty states. I should also like to leave this motion to the House. Maybe I can say something about the motion on item No. 12, a motion from Mr Servaes and Mr Sjoerdsma. This concerns in particular the support of the African States. Perhaps it is important to say something about this after all. I have discussed this extensively with a number of countries at the United Nations General Assembly. I spoke about this with the Foreign Ministers of the ICC, especially the critics of the ICC, so to speak. I therefore refer to countries such as Rwanda and Kenya, well known. A number of other countries also say: we frame that the International Criminal Court is actually an anti-African institution. Because, say those countries, the Prosecutor is only dealing with matters relating to Africa. Everyone who has followed the case knows that this is partly the case, but at the same time it is African countries themselves that have taken action at the International Criminal Court. I've talked extensively with the coalition against the ICC. It's a matter of holding that coalition. I have also heard that there is no discussion there about actually a negative colouring of that element of aggression. You will notice in the discussions with those countries that they really think it is important that this is also addressed. The problem of these countries is much more that they feel or think that Africa is the most important issue. I have mentioned a number of arguments against this. I also said this afternoon, in the discussion with the Foreign Minister of South Africa, whom I specifically invited, what our objections were to South Africa's behaviour at the time of President Bashir's visit. South Africa, as we know, invokes immunity rules for heads of state. At the same time, there was a case of the South African court. I thought it was important to share that with her personally. I also believe that we should continue to support the Court of Justice, that we should invest more in it and that dialogue should also be initiated, in a way that has consequences. Finally, I would like to say something about Mr Knops' question as to whether we are going on a dangerous road in the sense that all kinds of people can go to prison here. First of all, it has no retroactive effect on the persons mentioned by Mr Knops: presidents, etc. Apart from the question of whether the point of aggression is here, that is not the issue here. Will a specific situation of violence in the context of humanitarian intervention be assessed by the International Criminal Court in the future? In that case, it is important that the definition is clear. The Dutch Government's view is that cases where there may be a reasonable difference of opinion fall outside the definition of the offence of aggression. Our view, conviction and also legal analysis is that there will be no problem there. As far as the responsibility to protect is concerned, I have already indicated that this doctrine can only take place on the basis of a mandate from the Security Council based on Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter, and here again is the element of checks-and-balances. At the end of this debate, following the exchange of arguments, I would like to ask that these Kampala amendments be accepted, on the basis of a very precise assessment made by the government. It has also had a significant input on the definition of "aggression." I refer to the issue of checks-and-balances and the question of whether this will further complicate the matter at the Court of Justice. I think it makes sense that a number of motions have been tabled to at least remove those concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u43	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the deliberations on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-9.u44	The law, the motions and the amendment will be voted on next Tuesday.
