ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State. Yesterday we were already allowed to do part one of the AFB. That has gotten pretty out of hand with 56 interruptions. We've counted them all and peated them. Especially GroenLinks, the SP and the SGP were very productive. Yes, Mr Dijkgraaf, this is about you. Of course, we're going to listen to the Minister first. He starts with an introduction and then he has five cubes. He will publish these and will also indicate when his cubes will end. Those are the interrupting moments. After that, maybe after dinner break, we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. He's got three cubes, one of which is a big block. This is about box 3. Six political groups have raised pressing questions about this. For now, I'm not limiting the number of interruptions, but we'll keep track of them. If I'm crazy, maybe I'm gonna change the rules of the game and limit the interruptions anyway. I am glad you all agree with me and do not question my authority. I see that Mr Dijkgraaf is threatening to vote on me, so I shall give the floor very quickly to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. You asked me to tell you which cubes I have. After the introduction I come up with a general block on economics and purchasing power. Then, especially for Mr Koolmees, I have a block on reform. Then I come to a more extensive section on expenditure, which includes asylum expenditure and expenditure on V and J. Then I come to the financial sector block and I end up with Europe. You will understand that the Secretary of State will answer the many questions about taxes, the tax plan and box 3. Some members referred to Piet Lieftinck in their contribution. I appreciate that very much. I liked it. Mrs. Schouten had even taken a reference piece. I myself have another reference work, namely the biography of Lieftinck, prominently on my desk. In that I came across a case that was very appealing to me and I would like to share it with you. Maybe we can make it an ongoing saga. On 3 August 1945, Mr Lieftinck was given an almost blank power of attorney. At first he got that from the cabinet for a year, to put things in order. That power of attorney functioned so well that a year later the same power of attorney by law, the authorisation decision, without too much opposition in the Chamber, was granted to the Minister of Finance. With this he was given far-reaching powers to regulate the whole operation through ministerial decisions. That was, I read in the book, very much for the benefit of the ability to act and the speed of action. It's just a little thought from history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u3	Is this also the end of the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u4	If you accept this suggestion, the debate would end. In all seriousness, in offering the budget, I have outlined that things are improving, but not yet good enough. Why am I saying things are getting better? Because the budget's getting better. Next year, the deficit will fall again by 0.7 percentage points. For the first time in years, public debt is falling. The shelf life balance is in order right now. We have achieved all that in a circumstance that was not only beneficial. We had to make money available for the wage agreement, namely 470 million this year, up to 1.3 billion. Gas revenues are much lower than we expected at the beginning of the cabinet period. Compared to the initial figures, it saves 5 billion. We've had the exchange rate problem of over 1 billion. We also have increasing spending on asylum. This year alone, the figure is over 600 million more than estimated. More money will also be available in the coming years. I shall come back to that in detail later. All these amounts have been adjusted and the budget has improved. We have also included additional political priorities, partly at the explicit request of the Chamber. That's how we made 345 million dollars for the Defense Department. In the Van der Staaij motion, 60 million extra was requested for missions. There is also a motion by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes asking for additional resources to be made available for improving the quality of care in nursing homes, for toddler care, for paternity leave and so on. We have been able to incorporate these political priorities into this budget. The economy is also improving. The figures published by the CBS yesterday are again positive. The CBS press release headlines: Almost all signals on green for economy. The CBS shows that we have had a good quarter over the full breadth: investments, household consumption and exports of goods have increased. The third dimension must also always be invested in a budget. You have the budget itself, the economy and economic strengthening and purchasing power; that is the third dimension. With the 5 billion package, which had the primary aim of creating jobs and promoting participation, we have made sure that all groups are making progress next year. In 2016, 0.9 billion will be targeted for this purpose. There is a median purchasing power improvement of 1.4%. There we are, but that's not good enough. I suspect that this is how it is going to be in politics, that the debate will be on matters which are not yet good enough than on matters which are now extremely well in order. We will pay a great deal of attention to this. The Secretary of State will address the design of the 5 billion package, which is one of the most important and striking elements of the budget. I'm sure I can tell you in a general sense why we made that choice. I recall that in last year's General Financial Reviews, almost all the political groups talked about the burden on labour and the drive for employment. The burden on labour is really problematic for the Netherlands and also for the other countries of the euro area. With the exception of Ireland, all euro area countries are well above the OECD average; this is entirely true for the Netherlands. In 2012, 57.5% of tax revenues were related to the labour factor. We really have to reverse that trend. This trend has not improved in recent years, but it has to be in the years to come. We'll make an important choice in that. Unemployment is still too high. This is due to two factors. The first factor is the fact that, when a country comes out of a crisis, production capacity is still available in business, which means that it does not immediately employ new people, but first uses the buffer that business still has. So there's always a deceleration factor in it. The second factor is that not only the number of jobs is increasing rapidly, but also the number of job seekers. As a result, unemployment is falling only slowly; too slowly, to our liking. That's why we're taking a lot of action. So there is the 5 billion package. This package provides 35,000 jobs in structural terms. Questions have been asked about this, because it would be 100,000 jobs. We still have that ambition, but it requires a much larger tax review; it has not come about. I will not spend as much time today as possible or at all on the question of whose fault that is or who is the first to run away. The simple fact is that, given the complex relationships in the Lower House and the Upper House, there is little point in putting on the table a grand and compelling plan if you do not see sufficient support in advance, especially in the Upper Chamber. We can regret this together, but perhaps we will have a breakthrough in the debate today, or later, in dealing with the Tax Plan, which will allow us to further increase our ambition. At least we didn't want this to fall out of our hands. That's why we made this choice. This is in addition to the broad range of measures taken by the Cabinet and will take to further tackle unemployment, such as sector plans, bridge-WW, from work-to-work transitions, bonus reductions for younger and older beneficiaries, etc. These are all issues that will undoubtedly receive a great deal of attention from the SZW budget. Of course, the choice to focus the 5 billion burden relief specifically on the labour factor also means that it is concentrated to the benefit of workers. Inside, however, we have looked explicitly at effectiveness and have focused much on the bottom of the labour market where the participation effect is greatest. Yes, of course, as a result that part of the budget does not benefit the non-working people, the inactive. At the same time, we have said that we are ensuring that these groups are not kept in the dark. That is also the basis for this cabinet. We have targeted an additional 0.9 billion to compensate for that. In this context, I would like to mention measures such as the elderly's discount, the child's budget, the extension of the temporary increase in the care allowance, and I hope that the Chamber will follow this and postpone the cut in the rent allowance. Some of these elements will undoubtedly come back next year, if we look again at purchasing power in August, but that is not new. Mr Harbers spoke about the problem of poverty drop and asked whether it could be seen in its entirety. On p. 151 of the Social Affairs budget is a table which gives a fairly detailed view of this. The title of the table is Labour Market Incentives. We have also shown figures in the Millions Note on the impact of the 5 billion package on poverty. Perhaps Mr Harbers would like to see what else we can do about it, on top of the 5 billion package. Then that table is on p. 151 of the Social Affairs budget. I hope I have served Mr Harbers well with this answer. If that's not the case, I'll hear about it. Mr Harbers also asked for the Court's recommendation to be included in the budgetary rules when estimates of fiscal measures take account of behavioural effects. I do not need to explain it to Mr Harbers again. I have it in front of me, but I'm not gonna read it to you right now. Mr Harbers knows what the system is like now. The Court of Auditors has proposed that these basic principles should be included in the budgetary rules. I would suggest that I give that thought of Mr Harbers to the Study Group on Budgets. In fact, if we can, we only revise the budgetary rules once per cabinet period. By the way, I think it's a good idea. So I will pass it on to the study group with a positive undertones. I see that Mr Van Vliet is not yet here. That's too bad. I was just about to compliment him on his counter-budget. Well, I guess I'll just hold off on that. Mr Van Vliet has asked many questions. He's got an interesting counter-budget. Some elements of risk in the budget have been discussed. Although it's going well, it's not good enough yet. That 'not yet good enough' is, of course, also in the budget, because of the risks that there are. These risks are partly around us, which are related to the international economy, world trade, the possible adjustments to monetary policy in the US and to economic developments in China, but they are also really in our own budget. In this context, the risk and guarantee schemes have been mentioned. A possible risk for the future is the cost of care. Mr Van Klaveren also asked a question about this. He has referred to the policy... I see Mr Van Vliet has come in. Mr Van Vliet, I was just about to serve you, but I waited. Mr Van Klaveren is not here either. I don't know if he's coming. I would like to leave the debate on the health system in Singapore to the VWS Minister, but the manageability of care costs, when it comes to the long-term sustainability of our budget, still deserves real attention. We have highlighted this in last year's Millions Note. The cost of care is currently reasonably under control. The increase has been substantially reduced and is at present even slightly below expected economic growth, but that is not a fact. With regard to the risks in the budget, Mr Omtzigt asked about the risks of the study advance. I understood it in such a way that he wonders what happens now in terms of risk if there is no redemption. A reservation is included in the budget OCW, as a kind of guarantee in advance of the possible risk of irrecoverability. The OCW budget provides for this. This is budget-covered. Mr Omtzigt has asked more generally whether the government is stress-resistant. He claimed that "the government is not stress-resistant," but at least that opinion is not shared by the rating agencies. They consider the Netherlands to be very creditworthy. At the same time, I am not blind to our shock resistance in the broader sense. We launched a public finance shock test last year. Then you can see that, in the event of a severe economic shock, the debt can certainly rise quickly. The Netherlands is not unique in this, but we do run that risk. This underlines the importance of further reducing the deficit and debt. This is also part of the reduction of guarantees. I thought Mr Omtzigt argued the same thing. We have developed a guarantee framework, and we have vetted and put the pressure on all the existing guarantees and back-up arrangements. If Mr Omtzigt has any suggestions as to which guarantees or guarantees should be tightened, I am, of course, open to them. We have gone through all the arrangements over the past year. Budgetary reserves have been built on many points. Risk premiums have been fixed or increased. Some arrangements are just closed. We continue to look critically at this. In this light, Mr Nijboer asked about the risks associated with the activities of the Nederlandsche Bank and monetary policy operations. I have just checked what the Dutch Bank itself reports on this. DNB itself provides information about this in the annual report. I will ask whether this can be further developed and explain how monetary operations are on the balance sheet and how institutions deal with these risks. The annual report of the Netherlands Bank itself seems to me to be a good place to deal with this. In its own annual report, I report each year on the underlying risks, including the guarantee granted by the State to DNB. I will see if I can supplement that further, in order to make it as clear as possible. I would now like to make a few comments on reforms and the government's reform agenda. Mr Koolmees has traditionally asked for this. It is funny that a cabinet that has now reformed almost every corner of society is being rubbed on, at least Mr Koolmees is trying to reform it not enough. Anyway, I said that myself, I also thought when offering the Millions Note, that reform should become much more of a standard attitude. What do I mean by that? We have now had to implement a number of very major reforms, at the time of a crisis, with a lot of delayed maintenance. The risks in implementation, but also the impact in terms of financial interventions and organisational changes, are very high. It is my ambition to adapt our housing, pension and health systems much more gradually, and thus less large and compelling, instead of talking about them for ten years and then doing a very large, rapid intervention. That is my preferred approach. That was also the port of my thesis "reform as a continuous assignment." On one point, this may not be as easy as possible, and that is the pension system. The biggest reform is that of the pension system. I also really believe that it is the biggest reform; it is a very complicated operation. The cabinet has already taken the necessary measures in recent years: the financial review framework, the pension fund administration, the Witteveen Framework 1 and 2, and the AOW-right age. But that is not yet future-proof. There's a few things in there. This means that the risks must be more transparent and that the system must be more consistent with a modern labour market. On 6 July, a comprehensive note was sent to the Court setting out the main lines of the pension system. When you read that note, which describes four main lines, you can understand the complexity of what needs to be addressed here. However, it must be done. I hope that we can do so in broad cooperation with the Chamber. The first key line is that everyone must be able to build up an adequate pension, in line with the individual situation. The second main line concerns the system of pension formation. It is about the average system, which the cabinet has said should be abolished. This will have to be done gradually, transparently and in a balanced manner, as it will have an impact on generations. The third main line is a more transparent and simpler pension and the impact on personal pension assets with, on parts, collective risk sharing. The fourth main line provides more space for customization and choice. This is easier said than done. It's extremely complex. It is a major reform that will speed up this cabinet. Investigations and explorations of the CPB, the SER and Netspar which are still ongoing will be included. This autumn, Secretary of State Klijnsma will send a work programme on this subject to the Chamber. It will elaborate the various steps on these four main lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u5	I see that Mr Koolmees has walked to the interrupting microphone, but I suggest that we finish the block on the reforms first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u6	As we pointed out in the Millions Note, Minister Asscher will be exploring the possibility of adjusting the legal minimum wage, the WML, this autumn. In doing so, we are looking for a minimum wage per hour and to maintain it more appropriately and better. Changing the statutory minimum wage into a statutory minimum hourly wage also brings with it effects on employees' incomes and on employers' burdens. However, this is an opportunity to look at it, also in the light of the 5-billion package. This will be on the agenda in the autumn. Then I come to the interdepartmental policy research self-employed without staff (ibo zzp). Mrs Schouten asked when the report was due. The govern ments concerned have informed me that this will come to the Chamber very soon. However, I cannot anticipate that. Mrs Schouten's request was to get it at least to deal with the tax plan, which seems to me to be the least.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u7	I thank the Minister for his introduction. Yes, a lot has happened in recent years: in the area of the labour market and pensions, reforms and late maintenance of dismissal law, and mortgage interest rates. That happened with D66's support, because D66 thought this should happen. What strikes me in the criticism of the Council of State is that there is an explicit warning of late maintenance: do not let the reins be celebrated now, because there is so much to do. That is also the Minister's line in two million notes. For two years, reform has been the constant task of the red line in the analysis. What strikes me is that it seems as if the speed is off with all those red lines. Let me give you a concrete example: pensions. I immediately agree with the Minister that it is a very complex dossier. For two years now, something has been announced in this area, and we know that we need 10 years or perhaps 15 years to tackle, for example, the average premium. Will the cabinet come up with a concrete plan this year to really tackle this and anchor it in the next budget? Or is it being transferred to the formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u8	I think Mr Koolmees is taking the wrong example. If one major reform is already cut, it is pensions. I have already said that this autumn, the Court will have the action plan in which we will show exactly how we are going to make the pension system future-proof along four lines. There are also examples in the second chapter of the Millions Note which are not yet concrete or whose parts have been worked out. There is a theme on equal opportunities. In the field of education, we have worked out how we want to do this, but not yet in other areas. Mr Koolmees could have drawn stronger examples from the Millions Note. I will continue to draw up these reforms in the second chapter of the Millions Note, even if they are not yet ready in legislation. Mr Koolmees may say to me: come on. That's a good division of roles. I will continue to fill the reform agenda because I believe that we should avoid looking back in ten years' time and wonder why we did not pay attention to this earlier. I have also read the opinion of the Council of State. Blame that the cabinet doesn't reform enough doesn't do me much. With all due respect, that is not entirely adequate criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u9	It was the criticism of the Council of State, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u10	Nor the Council of the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u11	I've got a good example. I could have taken the example of thezzp'ers. For a year, the parties look at each other while nothing happens. There will be no cabinet response either. But that's what I find so acidic. I am taking an example of something where something really happened in the past year and where there are concrete choices. Is the Minister saying that there will be hard concrete choices about the direction of the pension system? Are there going to be hard time? Does the Minister say that this is what we are going to do in the coming years to ensure that our system is future-proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u12	I would like to say a third time: Secretary of State Klijnsma will present a very concrete action plan this autumn, with timelines and steps. By the way, there are already a number of choices to be made. The choice to say goodbye to the average premium is quite profound. That's not an easy operation. I note that there are a number of challenges with regard to thezzp'ers at the same time that D66 does not yet have the answer. D66 makes everything a problem of the PvdA and the VVD. That is interesting, because these parties have very different views on different issues. D66 also faces a challenge. What does it mean, for example, for the future, that there are more and more self-employed people who pay no or much less tax, who are not insured and who perhaps do not build up a pension? I refer to the rising costs, at least for the budget, of the self-employed deduction. What does that mean for the future? I haven't really heard D66 give an exciting answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u13	The Minister may, of course, bounce the ball back to the Chamber, but then it will take a lot of time. For example, D66 is now standing by the interrupt microphone to bounce the ball back. I'm asking the Minister not to excel in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u14	Once or twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u15	That's right. That's why we're here. Unfortunately, this is exactly the Minister's wrong example. My colleague Van Weyenberg is behind me here. He has received a number of motions on voluntary supplementary insurance. The point is that there is no cabinet position and that is why we cannot discuss it further. There is no decision about how we are going to deal with this. We have very clear views on the future of the labour market. Those are also part of thezzp discussion. We have been waiting a year for the cabinet position. It started with azzp-finish in the coalition agreement and then there has been an ibo for a year. The cabinet isn't gonna be able to tie a knot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u16	Fine. Just one more answer from the Minister and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u17	I stand by my statement that the really big challenges under the themezzp have not yet been met by D66 either. I just called them. Voluntary insurance is wonderful, but people are already entitled to insurance. This is not the answer to the different tax burden on different groups in our society with the same income and comparable work, in order to name once again the erosion of the tax base. Anyway, we'll prosecute it another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u18	Can the Minister also comment on a very fundamental reform in the context of the reform theme, which is being discussed in the Green Left Group's view? It has to do with what we call the "carbon bubble." Our society will have to set up a completely different way of looking at the economy, with risks being assessed differently than in the past. Now, today or yesterday in a speech, the President of the Bank of England has made a number of very compelling remarks about this. He warned very strongly about the stability of the financial system. In addition, the well-known issues were raised: one third to one fifth of the world's fossil fuel resources will simply have to remain underground, and so on. To what extent have these risks, which lie at macro level in public finances, the financial sector, the insurance sector and our pension funds, been co-analysis or co-analysis? To what extent would that lead to a different view of economic policy than that of simple relief over the full breadth "and we can see further"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u19	I would just like to respond to the last point at the moment, namely that it is 5 billion across the board and that we can see further. That's not how the cabinet works. That 5 billion isn't over the full width either. I've just read Governor Mark Carney's statements. I would like to say that I have replied to the points he makes earlier in response to questions from GroenLinks in the Chamber. Perhaps Mr Grashoff will allow me to take those answers up again and give him a response at the end of my speech. It wasn't in his first term either, which is why I'm not responding to it now. And I couldn't, because Mark Carney didn't say it until last night. So this is a new point, to which I shall try to respond immediately at the end of my speech. By the way, I do have plenty of text on climate issues in general. So I am going to talk about that anyway, but I will take Carney's issue with me, if Mr Grashoff is okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u20	I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u21	I thought I was done with the theme of reform, but that's not entirely true. There are a few other points. Mr Nijboer has made an interesting suggestion. He said it would be good if, in addition to the Budget Space Study Group, which comes up with an opinion every time to the needs of cabinet formations and with new priorities and ambitions for fiscal policy, we also set up a Study Group on Sustainable Growth. I think that's a very good suggestion. This has happened ad hoc in the past, but it should be done by default, considering the challenges or opportunities for the next four years to further strengthen the economic structure and potential growth and address major challenges. It is therefore a question of structural strengthening measures. If this broad support were to be given in the Chamber, I saw some political groups in agreement with it, the cabinet will take this up and let the Chamber know how we organise it. My intention would be to add this structuralally to our working methods and therefore to ensure that there is such advice every time. Such a study group should be independent; also the Study Group on Budget Space is truly independent of politics. It gives firm advice for the electoral programmes of the parties, but also for the cabinet formation. That seems to me to be a very good suggestion. One point that also comes back every year when dealing with the Millions Note, at least in the time I am allowed to make it, is the problem of the vulnerability of high debts and long balances. Mr Koolmees has asked for this. His wording was: "When is the cabinet going to do something about this?" That suggests the cabinet hasn't done anything about this yet. Mr Koolmees is thus also failing himself, because on a number of points D66 has helped us. On the one hand, it concerns adjustments to the pension system. One thinks of the Witteveenkader, which leads to higher disposable incomes during working life and less hoarding in the pension sphere. At the same time, I would like to mention, for example, the approach to mortgage interest relief, which is gradually being considerably reduced, and the adjustments to the LTV system, so preventing people from getting overfunded and over-indebted, because that is also very risky in the housing market. We have dealt with many points, but this problem is not just being addressed. Debts have been built up for decades. It will take a long time to get households in particular to a much less vulnerable level, but we are tackling this along the lines I outlined, i.e. on the basis of all kinds of structural reforms. I come to a series of issues relating to expenditure. Mr Omtzigt asked about the development of the deficit. He asked if I could promise that the deficit would continue to fall. Of course I cannot, because I do not have all the circumstances in my own hands, but it is certainly our intention to further reduce the deficit towards the medium-term balance point. As is well known, next year's actual deficit will fall by 0.7 percentage points to 1.4%, in my mind. We will try to keep that up every year, perhaps not in identical steps, but in even steps. Mr Omtzigt also asked about the three frameworks. Why have three frameworks if you allow for compensation between frameworks? He knows the budgetary rules on this point. Directors must, of course, solve their budgetary problems on their own budget. They may use windfalls to compensate for any setbacks. I have to say, however, that in recent years I have received many windfalls from different budgets. Compensation between budgets across frameworks is allowed, but only if the Council of Ministers decides to do so. As Mr Omtzigt points out, we have indeed allowed compensation between frameworks in the 2016 budget. That is not new, by the way. I recall the many exceedances of the care framework. They were compensated by the Ministry of Social Affairs, while sometimes it was the other way around. However, it must be preceded by an explicit decision of the Cabinet. The three expenditure ceilings work extremely well and disciplined. That's why I want to maintain them. Mr Omtzigt asked how we deal with local authorities when we set the EMU deficit standard. This, of course, is linked to the Court of Justice Act. It contains the agreements made with the local authorities on the distribution of the deficit area. There are still a lot of concerns in some governments. For example, I hear from provinces and waterboards that there would be too little investment space and that the deficit standard is breaking. So far, however, this has not been the case. The results for the past two years indicate that the EMU deficit of the local authorities has remained well within the agreed norm. That standard has been set at -0.5% in recent years. The implementation of the local authorities was -0.41%, -0.34%. That is why, as previously agreed, we have reduced the deficit standard for next year from -0.5% to -0.4%. That draft decision lies with the Chamber and hangs in front of it. In a recent consultation, I did agree with the local authorities, also to take their concerns seriously, that we should speak again next year. So far, however, the standard has not been broken, and I do not expect it to tighten. If that is the case, we will enter into consultations. Thanks to Mr Koolmees' amendment, later incorporated in a legislative amendment, we now have a correction mechanism instead of a sanction mechanism. Even of that, I said that I will not apply it to this cabinet period, because we are still in a, what I call, practice phase with the local authorities. For me, I say to Mr Omtzigt, the Van Hijum motion is therefore still leading. That motion said that investment by local authorities should not be allowed to get in the way. That's what we're gonna do. We're not gonna keep the finger on the wrist. Mr Van Vliet has asked questions. I'd have wanted to take it with me before, but he wasn't there by then. My compliments on his counter-budget. With him, I believe that this does not apply to others. He is doing so because of some tough cuts, which this cabinet will not be responsible for. So I can't embrace his counter-budget. However, his commitment, especially for the deficit, is commendable. Mr Van Vliet asked questions about the robustness of tax revenues. He's worried about that. He asked how robust these tax revenues are in the medium term, given developments such as ageing, migrant problems and gas extraction. The last shelf life study of the CPB shows that we have a small shelf life surplus. This simply means that the current provisions will also be affordable in the medium term for future generations. Two factors have been taken into account: the ageing population has been fully taken into account in the CPB calculation and gas extraction. Of course, apart from the acute earthquake problem in Groningen, the CPB has also foreseen that gas extraction will be reduced and gradually reduced to zero. The acute migration problem is not in these sustainability figures. In the case of an ageing population, there is, of course, an increase in expenditure on health care and AOW, but on the other hand, there is an increase in public revenue when supplementary pensions are paid out. The other elements are thus in the shelf life figures of the CPB. Mr Van Vliet has also asked very concretely and confrontingly why the cabinet opts for a higher EMU deficit. I assume he refers to the fact that we have decided to explicitly allow a 5 billion reduction in charges. When we draw up the budget, we always have several objectives: strengthening and further supporting the economy and economic recovery, gradually raising the budget and increasing purchasing power as fairly as possible. In that balance, we have made a choice. The 5 billion really is a very conscious choice to reward work and to improve the functioning of the labour market, to ensure that people simply have more left over and that employers move more easily across the threshold to employ people, especially at the bottom of the labour market. As I said, Mr Van Vliet makes other choices. He's making a big cut: 3 billion, 0.6 on OCW. I was wondering where he got that 0.6, but I'm sure he's been thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u22	The minister continues and finishes his block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u23	It's an extensive block, Mr. Chairman. I'm like laundry in your hands, but there are a lot of subjects in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u24	Let's finish this. Then we'll keep it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u25	Okay. I can go into more detail on Mr Van Vliet's budget if I so wish, but I think he will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u26	Sure, if the chairman's willing to let me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u27	Then I come to a difficult issue, namely the budget for security and justice. Almost all Members have spoken about this, some of them with great concern. It is obvious that there are risks in this. They are on their own in every budget, I say for the sake of relativity. However, in the V and J budgets there are a number of planned cuts linked to legislative proposals that are not all equally viable in the Upper House. The cabinet is aware of this. It is only a question of whether the cabinet should put its head in the lap in advance, or whether it should pursue that debate on the content with the First Chamber. These include registry rights, legal aid, their own contribution to detention and their own contribution to the criminal proceedings. The Chamber has also called for attention to be paid to risks or budget constraints in the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the police. I will also deal more specifically with these aspects. However, I also propose that I send a letter to the Chamber before the debate on the budget for security and justice, together with my colleague from V and J. Or perhaps I should say that my colleague from V and J will send that letter with me; that is probably a better wording. In that we must do what several Members of the Chamber have asked, I think Mrs Schouten in particular. That is what we are going to do. What would it mean if certain legislative proposals did not reach the final stage or only partially? How does the Cabinet intend to deal with that? What are the bottlenecks that have been mentioned in the various sections of the department? Of course, we will also look into possible solutions. I say this with caution, because few proposals have been made by the spokesmen for cover from outside the V and J budget. Only in the counter-budget of the SP is such a proposal. I am not saying that because I see Mr Merkies walking to the interrupting microphone right now. With that cover, of course, we have a problem. So I say carefully that we will also look at possible solutions to the bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u28	Is this the end of the block over V and J?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u29	No, Mr. Chairman, not by a long shot. I have a lot of information before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u30	I see a lot of spokesmen on the Interrupt Microphone, but first you finish this block, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u31	I have here, for example, figures from the De Galan Committee's report, or from the De Galan Group, I think I have to say. It is said that the cuts are feasible in themselves, but I believe that there is a case for an occasional delay in the pace of austerity so that the measures can be implemented more effectively. This would require occasional money. I say that so specifically because it has been asked. If you take more time, it's gonna save $50 million, I think. That would cause an additional problem. It's in the report of the De Galan Group. The Court of Justice has also, as we know, published a multiannual plan. I say this in response to questions from Mrs Schouten and Mr Grashoff. Furthermore, the Slob/Samsom motion is about this. In that multiannual Council for Justice, the efficiency tasks set out in the coalition agreement are further defined. I believe that Mr Merkies said that this was 20%, but next year we will reach 3.2% and it will rise to 8.9%. That is still quite decent, but a lot less than Mr Merkies suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u32	I know you want us to wait until the end of this block, Mr President, but I really need to correct this. I was talking about the periods of the Rutte I cabinet and the Rutte II cabinet together. You'll be at 20%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u33	That's a setback.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you. The seat of the Court of Justice is not in question. No courts are closed. This is about the division of business and workplaces. The Chamber has adopted a motion for a resolution on this matter. It invites the government to enter into consultation with the Judicial Council and to ask the Council not to take irreversible steps. So we will take this point into account in the letter that the Chamber receives from the Minister of V and J. The Justice Council has now informed the Minister that it will postpone the adoption of the plan until then and will not take irreversible steps. It has also been mentioned that there would be a bottleneck at the Dutch Forensic Institute, the NFI. That would emigrate to Sarajevo. Yes, it is true that the NFI needed additional capacity and that it found that capacity in Sarajevo. It is not a question of a shortage of money, but of capacity. I have been told that this additional capacity has also been found in the United States. All costs arising from the bringing down of the MH17 are covered by the general. So these additional costs for the NFI will also be covered by the Autumn Note General. It is a small amount, but it is not an additional problem for the budget of V and J. That is why I would like to mention it. Finally, the police. In the debate on 10 December, a letter was promised by the Minister of V and J following a motion by Mr Segers on the financing of the budget of the National Police for the additional costs of reorganisation. This letter will be sent to the Chamber for the budgetary procedure. Mr Merkies asked about the police-cao. The police are on the zero line, and he says they're going backwards. Is the minister being sent with an empty wallet to the police unions? The Minister of V and J can make sector-specific agreements with the police on a collective agreement given the upper sector agreement. Of course, I can't anticipate it. The Minister has appointed a scout to examine how and under what conditions these negotiations can be resumed. As you know, the upper sector agreement allows an increase of 5.05% and €500 this year. Of course, that will also benefit the police. Another point concerns the extension of the police force. Then we've had all the points at V and J. Mr Merkies wants to increase the number of detectives. He was talking about a second-term motion. Of course, I don't know it yet, but in the basics it's an interesting thought. We are looking together with V and J but also with the FIOD, the Tax Office and the Public Prosecutor at how we can make a business case in which we can reduce additional capacity for the D.A. or the police to additional income, for example through the picking of drug criminals in Brabant. That's a thought you could use more broadly. We have now taken a small step. Extra 3 million have been released specifically for the undermining of public order by drug criminals in Brabant. You know the problem. We are going to keep a very precise record of the additional revenue generated by the FIOD and the Tax Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then we can see if we can scale this path further. We look at this line and finance is closely involved, because it also affects our department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u35	I thank the government for listing all the bottlenecks in the V and J budget. They're heavy. The government is challenging us to come up with cover. In the second term, we will also indicate what that cover could be. As far as the CDA is concerned, this coverage should already be available during the General Financial Reviews. After all, this is a debate in which budgets can be covered. There is very little room within the budget for Security and Justice. The list is long: registry rights, legal aid, own contribution criminal proceedings, own contribution detention, a De Galan report on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the Court of Justice, the NFI and then there are the additional costs due to the influx of asylum. The police are also making a considerable effort to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u36	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u37	Indeed, the Minister said that this would be in a later block. The CDA Group would like to have an inventory of all these costs before the end of the AFB. If this is not going to work tonight, I would ask the Minister to do so by Tuesday. Then a short reopening of the AFB can take place next week to see if anything else needs to happen. This is going to be a budget which we all know here, of which the First Chamber will say: this is going to be a problem. Is the Minister prepared to send us the promised letter by Tuesday with the Minister of Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u38	No. We want to do that for dealing with the V and J budget, also because we are looking at a number of directions for resolution. Our approach is: for the budget of V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u39	It is interesting that the Minister already admits that he needs directions in a budget that has not even been discussed and is two weeks old. That already indicates that he himself sees that they are needed. I think that's progress. But would he be willing to do that by next week? Otherwise, we will have to reopen the General Financial Reviews at a later date in the budgetary cycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u40	No, you don't have to. Legally, not politically. The Chamber can already say that it wants to withdraw additional money for V and J from another category of expenditure or budget. I have already seen proposals from some groups to make extra money available for V and J. If these proposals get a majority, the cabinet will of course follow that majority. If not, we will come up with an analysis on a number of specific issues. If there are any problems left, then of course we will also come up with a solution, because that is part of an analysis. So it's two-and-a-half. Or the House takes the initiative itself and then it has to say to the budget we have tabled: I want it to be different; here you have my amendment. Or the Court awaits further analysis of bottlenecks and threats. In fact, she asked for this analysis herself, and that is why I promised it. If you're doing an analysis, there's no way that possible problems can be found. In that case, we will come up with possible solutions. Those two approaches are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u41	I shall begin with a point for the Acts. The Minister said that only the counter-budget of the SP coverage options are included. I would just like to point out that our counter-budget also has coverage possibilities. You don't even have to legalize pot for that, I say to Mr Koolmees. I do feel a little sympathy for Mr Omtzigt. I appreciate the Minister's offer of space. It is a good thing that he is going to map out the problems and see what might need to be done about them. However, this goes beyond the budgets. Now I understand that things may be complicated for next week, but does the Chamber still have the opportunity to discuss this with the Minister at the time of more insight into a possible solution? After all, it is not customary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u42	You can always do that. Of course, it's a bit of an analysis. What are the real threats? When is there a financial bottleneck? How much are we talking about? And what type of solutions are they? It has not been said that the Minister for Finance is involved in this. Maybe the Minister of V and J can take care of it himself. You don't know. I just want to offer the Chamber an opening. She has stressed the need for attention to be paid to the bottlenecks. We're not blind to that either. There are risks in the V and J budget, as the Prime Minister also said. I offer the Chamber an opening by saying: give us a chance to analyse the bottlenecks further, as we have been asked to do, and to come up with solutions. If the Chamber wishes to discuss this with the Minister of Finance at a later date, it is of course possible. Then I'll come. Let me put it this way, because I'm not exactly sure how to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u43	I realise that, of course, we are dealing with the question of whether the Minister should come to the Chamber. Hopefully he'll come when we call him. I would just like to point out that there may be another debate if we look over the budget. We shall then see for ourselves how we are going to do that. I would just like to say that I am very happy with the space. I notice that the Minister is reacting a little prickly, but I have said that I am pleased with the space he has offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u44	I didn't react prickly at all. On some issues we may face each other today, but that is not the case. I'm trying to be real. There are risks in this budget of V and J. The opposition makes it very clear that this is not going well. That is virtually opposition-wide. We therefore have to take this into account in view of the First Chamber and we are going to take it seriously. So we are going to look very closely at the problems and the solutions we can propose, either inside or outside the V and J budget. We shall then return to that in the Chamber. Furthermore, Mrs Schouten is right: in the counter-budget of the Christian Union, 0.2 billion is released to the police, the public prosecutor and the judiciary, without legalising soft drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u45	That's too bad, Mr. Chairman. I am surprised at the Minister's reaction. He describes very well what all the risks are in the budget. He also outlined that there were also political risks to legal aid and registry rights. None of that is new. It's been very sensitive in the Upper House for two years. It is also very sensitive to the senators of the coalition parties. The VVD and the Labour Party have also said in the First Chamber: ho, this is all going too far, we are not going to do this. In addition, there are holes in the National Police. The reorganisation is lagging behind and it will require an additional 230 million. In addition, the D.A.'s office. My question is why the Minister of Finance is only now going to talk to his colleague in the field of security and justice. You would think that the cabinet rules, so a proposal is made that can count on support in both Chambers of the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u46	It is a bit of a crazy question, because when I look at it purely budgetaryly, our budget proposals are in themselves final. We indicate exactly where we want to achieve the cuts. If D66 now claims to be willing to help V and J and to support some of these legislative proposals, then the problem with V and J is much smaller. We also need to see where the problem arises. A large part of the problem arises from the rejection of these proposals in the First Chamber by a number of opposition groups. By the way, all this remains to be seen. That's why it's still a risk to me and not a given, but I take it seriously. Parts of these laws may still be feasible. This is not the First Chamber, so I do not think that Mr Koolmees can tell exactly which parts will be supported by which groups. Let's do that analysis again with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u47	This is too easy for me. The cabinet shall submit a budget to be supported by both Chambers of the States-General. Unisono is said by all parties to be cheese holes, because there are many risks and many targets that are unrealistic. The police are on strike. The D.A.'s a financial mess. Those targets are simply not realistic. The cabinet then says to the opposition: come up with a solution. It's like the Tax Plan. That's the wrong order, isn't it? The order must be that the cabinet submits a realistic budget. That is not the case with the budget for V and J. Then it is very easy for the Minister of Finance to say: we will hear where you think you will find it and we will see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u48	This attitude by Mr Koolmees is funny, because I am reaching out to the critical parties in this Chamber. I think we should be real. There are risks. Mrs Schouten asks for that analysis to be sent and the cards put on the table. If there are real problems, we will also come up with solutions. That's what I offered. I do not know why Mr Koolmees is turning down that outstretched hand again. What I said is more about timing. If the House wishes to take a decision on it now, it is free to table amendments now. I cannot complete the analysis now and propose solutions, but for the budget of V and J the cabinet comes with an analysis, so that is more a discussion about timing. If we also have to acknowledge that there are a lot of risks in it, then we will also come up with solutions. That's all it was. I'm just trying to take responsibility. The problem did not necessarily arise in the cabinet, but it is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u49	That is precisely the difference between the Minister of Finance and me. It is a good thing that this hand-out is being done, and that is what the problem is. But my first question was why the Minister is only now in consultation with the Minister of V and J to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u50	'Cause a few things aren't clear. Let me give you an example. The First Chamber has passed a motion on the cuts in legal aid. We need a committee to study savings options. That's the Wolfsen Commission. It's not ready yet. It's coming before the end of the year, but we're gonna see if we can hear anything about the proceeds before. Maybe the committee will say to the cabinet: forget it, it just can't be done. Maybe she says: it is possible, but in another way; more careful or in another place. Maybe we can do it halfway or three quarters. When people say that I must now say what the risks are, I say: I do not know, because the routes in the First Chamber are still running. Maybe a single bill is still viable in the First Chamber. I don't know, because I'm not in charge of the First Chamber. That is why we have chosen this path. These are our intentions and we are looking at how far we can get with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u51	However, it is risks that the cabinet has brought about itself. That's important. There are cuts in legal aid and registry rights. The revenue from this has already been booked. You're gonna charge yourself rich, aren't you? It is not at all certain that these proposals come through the Upper Chamber. The proposal on the Registry Rights has yet to be submitted by the House of Representatives. Let us add other points to that. The Court of Justice says that it has postponed this and awaits the debate in the Chamber. So people already know there's money to be paid. If that doesn't happen, the courts will have to weigh down heavily. Moreover, the prosecution says that the level of ambition should be reduced if that amount of 50 million is not added. Well, then you can't help but say there's money to be added to V and J on balance, can you? Otherwise, you have to move from one deficit to another deficit. That is why I am asking the Minister of Finance whether money will be added to Security and Justice on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u52	I certainly cannot undertake to do that at the moment, and I will not. The order is that we analyse the bottlenecks we have identified here with each other. We'll get back to that. Moreover, the accusation that the cabinet has included planned measures and the corresponding savings in its budget is very strange. That's how we always work, in the whole budget. We don't do that anymore, because we are already in the third year of the cabinet period, but in a budget you put your plans, behind them the expenditure, savings and financial objectives, even if they haven't yet been achieved. So this seems like a weird accusation to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u53	Not at all, because it's hardly certain that it's because of the First Chamber. In my opinion, the cabinet feels that this is quite easy. In the General Political Reviews, a motion was adopted by Mr Roemer who was signed by almost the entire opposition. This motion calls for clarity for the General Financial Reviews. So here's what I'm wondering. Apparently, there is again no clarity and we are moving it to the budget of Security and Justice. Is there even a possibility to move, so that there is something to be added to Security and Justice? Or should we then move within Security and Justice between deficit posts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u54	That possibility exists from a legal point of view. Period. The SP can also take the initiative to find cover for it, in the form of an amendment, and seek sufficient support for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u55	As the Minister says, we have covered this in our counter-budget. I do not feel like covering if there is actually a shortage, because the Minister has booked things, such as the Registry fees, which have not yet been settled. The Minister doesn't expect me to cover that deficit, does he? That's kind of the reverse world. I want to know what's going on, for example with the D.A.'s office. The prosecution has clearly stated that it must be reduced in ambition level if that amount of the 50 million is not added. Does the Minister accept that? Or doesn't he believe the D.A.? Of course, we can still do that. Does he believe the state's attorney's office and want to remain at the same level in terms of ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u56	I am not going to repeat the debate on the De Galan report here. Minister Van der Steur has already had that with the Chamber. I don't think that makes any sense. If you shoot holes in the budget because you want to set other priorities, you have to cover it. I noticed, if I may make a critical remark, that during the General Political Reviews a multitude of motions were tabled without a beginning of coverage. Of course, you can try that with a motion, but at the end of the day there must be cover before we can change anything in the budget. That coverage should also be supported by a majority. If Mr Merkies succeeds in this with his amendment today or Tuesday at the votes, we will probably be voting later. V and J have already been helped. I'm not suggesting that we move money now. I admit, however, that with the Minister of V and J, I am going to look very seriously at the risks and possibilities of closing any gaps. I'm not gonna say much more about it now. So I take it extremely seriously. I also take the situation in the First Chamber extremely seriously. The motion of the SP Group chairman has also been received. However, I am not going to put money in the budget at random.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u57	If the cabinet offers a cheese, it should not expect the opposition to fill those holes. I think it's obvious. However, let me be positive and hope that the Minister, together with the Minister for Security and Justice, decides that there should be money for Security and Justice, otherwise it will be pushed between deficit posts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u58	Then I come to the subject of asylum seekers and the associated costs. Mr Slob has tabled a motion on this subject (34300, No. 23), in which the government is asked to provide for structural additional funds for first-year reception in the Netherlands and reception in the region and thereby to avoid the current OS programme lines. Many other groups have also asked questions about numbers and costs. I'll start with the numbers. The IND regularly publishes the figures. According to the latest figures reported last Tuesday, the influx last week was 2,400. The week before that was 4,200. For this kind of figures, I refer the members to the Ministry of V and J. I am now giving these figures because Mr Omtzigt specifically asked what the latest inflow rates were, but these figures are published regularly by the IND. What have we done in the budget? We've increased the estimates of the numbers. Initially, we had estimated the number for the current year at 21,000. That's raised to 40,600. I don't know if we're gonna figure that out. It's not a given in advance. The CBS has informed us that the influx was 25,000 until August. This influx concerns both first-time applicants and post-travelers. So I guess that estimate isn't that crazy. We have also revised the estimate upwards for the coming years. For next year we assume 28,000 and for the years after 22,000. Some Members of the House may already know that we are also structurally reaching much higher numbers. I honestly don't know that. I would find it strange to have the figures for the asylum influx at the present level fixed in a structural manner. There really is no basis for that, given the fluctuations. We have already adjusted the budgets to the higher estimate. The current year's costs are the first year's costs, which were initially estimated at 300 million under the ODA budget. 649 million was added, with a number of adjustments during the year. So we are now at nearly 1 billion in costs of asylum or reception in the current year. For next year, we have estimated 351 million. There's a dip in it, which we may still have to fix. For the years after that, we have already structurally increased asylum spending by 150 million, making 450 million available in structural terms. In the motion Slob on part No. 23 The Government is invited to provide additional funds in the Autumn Note. I hope this only applies in case it is necessary. If so, so will we.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u59	Are you at the end of the block on asylum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u60	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u61	That sounds a little vague, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u62	I have a quick question. Are the costs just listed including the aftermath? For example, most asylum seekers will not soon get paid jobs, but will become an inactive part of the labour force. German figures show that about 90% of migrants depend on benefits for years. This will affect public finances. Is that in those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u63	No, that type of cost isn't in the numbers. These are purely the estimated amounts for first-year asylum reception, i.e. the influx of people currently being received by the COA. Mr Van Vliet talks about 90%. I think you have to differentiate between groups. For example, Somalis score the worst in the Netherlands. In this group, unemployment is indeed close to 90%. But in a number of other groups unemployment is much lower. It is also expected that Syrians, who are much better educated, will be able to integrate much faster into society. But the simple answer to the question is: no, these are the first-year asylum costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u64	I have a brief follow-up question. Are the costs of benefits, for example, specifically reflected in the Social Affairs and Employment budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u65	The costs in so far as they run through the Municipal Fund or target payments are included in the Social Affairs budget. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u66	I just want to get it a little sharper. This may indeed be necessary. We don't know. We won't know until the end of the year. So my conclusion is correct that the possible additional budget is found outside the OS budget? That is also the intention of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u67	I can't agree to that. That's not in the motion either. It says 'running programme lines must be kept to a minimum'. We have succeeded so far, also because GDP growth has led to an annual increase in the ODA budget. We have so far used this space for this unforeseen high expenditure. However, I cannot guarantee that this will continue to be the case. Again, the motion does not state that it must be found outside the OS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u68	That is, of course, the intention of the motion: that it does not come into those OS programme lines. If there is an increase in GDP, it will also benefit those lines. That has also been taken into account. However, I understand that the Minister is now going to explain the motion in such a way that this can happen there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u69	My starting point is, and this is a longstanding policy, that the first year of asylum reception is paid out of ODA funds. That is not a new policy of this cabinet, it has been for a long time. ODA definitions also allow that. Then you don't have to do it, but the Netherlands does it. We've been doing this for years. That principle is therefore maintained. In August 2014, however, we put additional money once into the budget of BHOS, also in view of the rising asylum problem. So you may occasionally deviate from that, but the fixed line of policy is that these costs are charged to the budget of BHOS. And again, that budget increases when there is economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u70	The minister just mentioned a number of figures, but those were the CBS figures of late August. The COA says that on 28 September there were 36,254 asylum seekers. With 2,400 asylum seekers per week, around 10 October, we are at the 40,000 asylum seekers. So we can quite definitely say that we are well above 40 000, also because the Minister has signed a redistribution, so that we will resettle 7 000 asylum seekers from Greece and Italy. That's been going fast for the past week. I understand that in August, during the decision-making process, there was another prediction. It's really a difference from V and J in that respect, because things have been moving fast lately. The Minister has even increased the forecast for next year from 26 000 to 28 000 between the last replies and now. So that's 2,000 more. What is a real forecast and what are the costs if we actually reach 50,000 to 55,000 asylum seekers this year and a higher number next year? You're trying to window as close as you can to what you think is happening, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u71	Yeah, but in this situation, there's no way to do that. Mr Omtzigt now assumes that the number will be 55 000. We really don't know. He doesn't know that either. All I can say is that we free up extra money where necessary to make sure people don't sleep on the street. That is what we do in a crisis situation. It's as simple as that. We have already made additional funds available on several occasions for this purpose. We shall do that again with the Navy's note, as requested by the Slob motion. There won't be a moment when IND and COA don't have enough resources to do their job. That's not the bottleneck right now. If a problem arises, we will take ad hoc measures. They will be incorporated into the Navy's Note. How many times a year do you want to change the estimate and what's the point? What really matters is: are there enough resources available at the moment to set up the gymnasiums? It's as simple as that. Those resources are there and there's still room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u72	How many times do you want to adjust the estimates? We even get a supplementary budget when a painting has to be bought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u73	Yes, at the request of the Chamber. I'm sorry to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u74	Of course... I think this is a very special way of putting the ball back. In my opinion, no one is responsible for that painting anymore: Mr Pijbes I am not allowed to mention names, neither the government nor anyone else. However, we are not talking about that today, but I still find it strange. If we get an extra supplementary budget, I will ask the Minister to indicate in good time what the consequences are, because we are probably talking about some hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u75	Again, we don't know. This was our intention, and the Slob motion gives us that mandate again: come to the Navy note, if necessary on the basis of revised estimates, with additional means. The Slob motion also states that this must not be at the expense of ongoing programmes and so on. We may have a discussion on coverage later. We are going to see how that goes and where we can find the resources. I have outlined to you what the policy is. I did not bring up the paintings; that was Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u76	Maybe it's my inexperience in financial matters, but it has something shady for me. We do not want more and more pressure on the OS budget. There will be a solution in the Navy's note. You may not yet be able to indicate the beginning of where you find it. But I can assure the Minister that I can do it nicely through the chairman, and I have not yet noticed a clear commitment that it will not be charged to OS, or have I misunderstood? If the estimate is not correct next year, will it not be the same question, or should we ask again if there is anything to be adjusted, not to the detriment of OS? That is the point of principle that we are concerned with. I still don't feel comfortable at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u77	I'm not gonna give you that certainty either. I have indicated that the policy line of this cabinet and of previous Cabinets is that asylum reception in the first year will be charged to the budget of BHOS. That is still our starting point. Occasionally this could be done in a different way, but of course that is also due to the numbers and space etc. However, this is the starting point. GroenLinks may disagree, but it is the line of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u78	The essence of the motion that has been adopted is not that there should not be a cent from OS, but that, if additional costs are incurred, they should not be borne by OS. That is the essence of the motion. That's why our signature's underneath. That statement is not necessarily from GroenLinks who can easily be placed next to you, and you might find that pleasant as well as from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u79	Two things. Maybe GroenLinks should read the motion better from now on, because it is not there. It says, "... may not be at the expense of running OS program lines." Secondly, the motion is not covered. I keep saying it, because that is my role as Minister of Finance: you can still table so many motions, but if they are not covered, the cabinet will do so. It is wonderful to table motions in the vein of "more money for this and more money for that" and "it should not be at the expense of this and it should not be at the expense of that" but where do you get the money from? The cabinet will just come up with proposals. We'll see what it takes. At the moment, there is enough money for the services to do their job. That's what we're looking out for. There are plenty of bottlenecks in this file, but money will not be the bottleneck. We will take that into account in the Navy's note, with a proposal for cover. Then I'll see if the same majority of the House says again: it can't be like that. I found no alternative in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u80	That is true, but I believe that the discussion, or at least the confusion, is about the definition of existing or ongoing OS programme lines. In many of the groups that have contributed to this motion, the assumption was that it was not at the expense of the OS budget, because existing lines are also indexed, are also intensified and stand-alone policies. That is the intention of the motion tabled. I now understand that the Minister of Finance is explaining the motion quite differently, namely that this can indeed be covered within the indexing of OS money. Is my interpretation of the words of the Minister of Finance correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u81	The motion states that '... to avoid the current OS program lines'. This means not cutting back on what is going on in existing programmes. So far, we have succeeded. But I can't guarantee it, unless now it's said I have to cover it in another way. Once again, there is something that has crept into the General Political Reviews which is actually quite unusual: the coverage is the problem of the Cabinet and the Chamber does indicate where extra money should go. Mr Koolmees doesn't usually work like that either. We just need to be precise. We will come to the Autumn note with additional resources if necessary; if necessary for this year, if necessary for next year. We'll give you a cover. We've read the motion, but we're gonna need cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u82	That's exactly the difference of insight in this Chamber. I love covered motions, but a large majority in the Chamber has just given the political signal to the cabinet that perhaps extra money will be needed next year to receive refugees. The intention of the majority of the Chamber is not to charge it from the budget for OS. That's how the motion was filed. That also seems to me to be the direction in which the cabinet will have to look for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u83	I have now heard the various signatories and I understand that if extra money is needed, it should not come from the budget of OS at all. That is not in the motion, but that is the interpretation of Mr Koolmees, whose motion it is. So I'll take that from him. Again, the motion is uncovered. It doesn't say where the money has to come from. I will continue to counter that. The cabinet will come up with a proposal for cover, but basically this is the fixed line of policy that the first-year collection costs are paid from the budget of BHOS. We can deviate from that, but that is the starting point. Mr Merkies has asked about the funds for reception in the region, because it has been agreed that 1 billion should be made available. He asked: when, how quickly, what is the distribution, what will the Netherlands do? This was agreed at the informal European Council on 23 September. The European Commission makes 0.5 billion available through the EU budget. We have yet to see the proposals for how she is going to do that. Member States have been called upon to make a voluntary contribution. The Netherlands has already announced that it will contribute 110 million. What the other Member States are doing remains to be known. The image of that is certainly not complete yet. However, we will continue to insist on a shared responsibility and their share in it. I'll tell the Chamber how we want to bet the money. Of the 110 million go through UNHCR 40 million to Syria, 25 million to Jordan, 25 million to Lebanon and 10 million to Iraq. The Red Cross is going to 10 million. This is how we want to bet our share.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u84	Is this the whole block of asylum now? I thought we'd already had that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u85	I didn't have a block of asylum, Mr. Chairman. We are still in the midst of a number of spending wishes and issues. Shall I finish that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u86	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u87	If we are allowed to interrupt only at the end of cubes... we are also meant to keep this debate a little lively. I saw a lot of people sitting here at the beginning, but they're all gone by now. By allowing interruptions in between, the debate remains a bit lively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u88	Okay, so you're actually saying that the bleachers are full if I let you interrupt a lot. We can try, but let's do it on the weekends and not now. Just for a minute. I'd also like to take a break from dinner. Is it possible to ask two brief questions on this subject and then go on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u89	It can be very short, because the amount of 110 million was already known for the deal on the 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u90	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u91	You can't assign cases you've already decided on to that amount of $1 billion? Then other countries will do the same, and then it won't really be an extra 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u92	I am very sorry, but it does not have to be about new money every time we decide with other countries to release money. That doesn't have to be additional money every time, does it? In anticipation of the European agreement, the Netherlands said that it had already reserved this. It was then said at European level: let us put one billion on the table together. The Dutch section is ready. It shouldn't get any more colourful. You can't say it doesn't count anymore. I'm sorry, but that's a very strange argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u93	I'd say almost the other way around that it shouldn't get any more colourful. What if all the other countries do this? Things have already happened. Much money has already gone to the region, but unfortunately not nearly enough. Unfortunately, many billions are needed. At some point, it was agreed that there would be 1 billion more. Unfortunately, it's also voluntary. Subsequently, all countries point to reservations they have made before. Then it's not a big deal, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u94	Mr Merkies should take a look at what countries had already promised. Only a few countries, moreover, had promised much smaller amounts. The Netherlands is again the first to make a commitment for a large amount of money. If countries had pledged money in proportion to our 110 million there would have been much more than that billion, then billions would have been available. I love it. The Netherlands takes its responsibility. That's what it does very consciously. We believe that reception in the region is an important part of the solution. The Netherlands cannot finance this solution on its own. 110 million is a large amount for the Netherlands. It is much more than all the other European countries have promised. Let us not chastise ourselves again that it is not good again and that it must be fresh money again. This money's fresh, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u95	It's the methodology that matters to me. At some point you notice that so much has already gone to shelter in the region and then you agree that there will be 1 billion more. Next, the Netherlands says that we have already done so. We count the previously pledged money as our contributions. If all countries do that, then that 1 billion is nothing extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u96	I very much disagree with this. The Netherlands was the first to prepare a substantial sum. No other country in the EU has so quickly committed such an amount in proportion to the size of the That money hasn't been spent yet. It's ready to go. We are prepared to use that. Now we decide to use this together with the European countries. No, says Mr Merkies, that's not allowed, that's old money. Why? The money wasn't even spent yet? We had just announced that we have it available. Again, if all the other countries put a similar amount on the table in proportion, that billion would be surpassed many times. Sometimes I really do not understand Mr Merkie's reasoning at all. Mr Dijkgraaf has asked for options to support carers financially. He also asks for those options to be mapped out and used. The importance of carers is evident. With the introduction of the Wmo in 2015, the task of municipalities in this area is further anchored. We then transferred funds to the municipalities. I know that I spoke to Mr Dijkgraaf about this. We are talking about 100 million structuralally. The municipalities can decide how they support carers. They may also decide to make additional resources available for this purpose. We have chosen this approach. I thought it was in line with the SGP approach. In the General Reviews, a motion was adopted in which the Chamber asked for opportunities to accommodate carers further. The Prime Minister has already promised that the cabinet will come with a letter. In that letter, Secretary of State Van Rijn of VWS will explain how carers are supported and encouraged within the existing financial frameworks. This can be the subject of further debate during the budget debate VWS. I'm capitalized on what I said about the family allowance. It is just in the budget and is still foreseen for 2018. I was at a PvdA meeting and said there: but I suspect, if you ask Diederik Samsom, that there will be no more. I should not have done that, of course, because I cannot speak on behalf of the political leader of the Labour Party, but I had once read an interview with him about this. So, as Minister of Finance, I can only repeat the beginning of the story here: he is in the 2018 budget, and if he does not have to go through, we need to find alternative cover for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u97	I have also looked at how the Minister's words have got into the media; he can say it if that is not true: 'I cannot say it as a minister, because it is still in the budget, but the group will say that there will be no cost of care'. You can't say that, can you? If you say that, don't you say that as a minister? The whole country is listening and thinks: the Minister of Finance says that the household allowance will not be paid! Then I think there's only one choice... that you're gonna get rid of that family allowance, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u98	No, I said that I know the position of the PvdA Group, as expressed by the chairman of the group, namely that it wants to get rid of the care allowance. I have also made it very clear that I do not know whether that quote is entirely correct, that it is simply in the budget for 2018 and that there is no alternative plan for it yet. Both cases are true. It is the wish of the PvdA Group that this whole plan should not go through, and it is also true that the cost of care is still in the budget and that alternative cover should therefore be provided. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u99	Apparently, the Minister for Foreign Affairs forgot to mention the latter. I have also mentioned these words about the budget, but the point is that the Minister gives people false hope in this way. All these elderly people now think that this household allowance is not going to happen in 2018. That's how it got in the paper. The Minister set up half the PvdA action cap and is already running a bit of a campaign, but is also half Minister of Finance. It can't be. These two are the same person. He simply said there, as Minister of Finance: you can count on that household allowance not to be paid! He can't say that it's just in the budget after that, can he? Then he's wronging all those old people, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u100	No. I can only repeat what I said there. Mr Merkies is right: I am always Minister of Finance, even when I speak with the Labour Party or when I am standing here. I said two things there, first of all, that this is just in the 2018 budget. I also know Diederik Samsom said they want to get rid of it. Something else will have to be done; that is obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u101	This is a little... can I have one more...?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u102	No, because I've heard you twice now. In your last interruption, I was far too kind. Then I even had you interrupted four times. We are going to listen to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u103	The story about the household allowance is becoming more curious every day. We have just had a debate on accounting legislation. All audit firms had to change because something would go in on 1 January, but just before that it didn't happen. The same is likely to happen here with the household allowance. If it stays in the law in 2017, you force people to anticipate it. You can take another or two months to say whether it will go out as of 1 January 2018, because that time is there, but you can't wait until autumn 2017. People need to be able to make decisions: can I provide this care, do I have an income or no income? Is the Cabinet prepared to fix a time at any time, with the Autumn Note or, if necessary, with the Spring Note next year, on which it is prepared to take that final decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u104	Yeah, because there's just a certain deadline on it. You have to make this decision in time, too. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u105	I'm glad it's timely. Do you think I should know when that deadline is? You can't do that just before 1 January 2018. Does the Minister share the view that this deadline is no later than 1 January 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u106	I do not know that, but I will have it checked when that decision on the date of introduction should be taken at the latest. Basically, it's just in the budget. It's even been accepted by both chambers. If we do not want it, we must reverse that decision in good time. I referred to what Mr Samsom said about this. On the question of when's time, I'll be back. I can't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u107	Very briefly, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u108	You say you'll come back to it later. I assume that this autumn we will receive a letter about when that appearance should be withdrawn, not only for implementation, but also for the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u109	The President thinks I can give that answer more quickly. The question of when this decision should be reversed is a technical question. That's actually what you should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u110	Let's turn it around. The Minister of Finance says: 'The household allowance is in the budget'. So, as far as he's concerned, he's just gonna keep going. Actually, he's saying, "You're gonna get that family allowance."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u111	I said two things about that, both of which are true. The first is: it is in the budget, it has already been adopted by both chambers. I have only taken note of the views expressed by the chairman of the Group of the Party of Labour. The Labour Party wants to get rid of it. Then something must be done. Both are true. I can pretend that I have not heard the statement of that group chairman, but I have heard or read it. These are the facts I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u112	But my question was: according to the Minister of Finance, as it now looks like, will that fine come in 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u113	The introduction "according to the Minister of Finance" suggests that I did not speak as Minister of Finance, but I also spoke at that meeting as Minister of Finance. This Minister of Finance sees the facts. The fact is that it is just in the budget as of 1 January 2018. The decisions have already been adopted by majorities in both chambers. I have also recalled that the Labour Party Group intends to abandon it so that it does not go through. Something will have to be done in between, but Mr Koolmees understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u114	I find it very strange that a finance minister talks as a finance minister, but occasionally says: but the PvdA finds this. That's actually very typical, but okay. I wish the PvdA did! Every time such a motion is tabled, the PvdA votes against. I am also tabling a motion on behalf of almost all the opposition today on the death penalty and I hope that the Minister of Finance will advise his own group to vote in favour of that motion. He also quoted Diederik Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u115	I always give voting advice, but I do not need to give voting advice to my own group. My own group has an opinion on this. That is what the chairman of the group has said, and I have quoted it. I did not say: 'The Labour Party finds... 'or 'this PvdA'er finds', no, I said that I have taken note of the statements made by the Chairman of the Labour Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u116	The Minister does not have a group, by the way. That's a kind of weird construction under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u117	Very weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u118	The Minister is continuing. Just so we're clear, how many cubes do you have left, Minister? We should also go to dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u119	After that, I have the financial sector and Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u120	So these are two blocks, one on the financial sector and the other on Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u121	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u122	How much time do you think you'll need for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u123	If I'm gonna skip things, you're gonna regret it later. Then MPs will ask where the answer to x, y and z is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u124	That would keep me out of my sleep, yeah. Why don't we try doing those two cubes for dinner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u125	I'll try to get through some of the topics quickly. Well, then we'll just have to see how far we can get. Questions have been asked about the purchasing power development of chronically ill versus non-chronically ill. Is this purchasing power development even balanced? The Nibud has looked at it and has shown that the purchasing power of the Wmo would not be balanced. This is because the Nibud assumes that in 2016 the municipality adjusts the policy around the Wmo so that its own contribution goes up. The policy around the Wmo has been transferred to the municipalities, because our thesis is that municipalities are better able to deliver customization through the Wmo and the special assistance. As the Chamber knows, in this light we have, in my view, transferred about 250 million to the municipalities for the purpose of tailor-made provision, i.e. income support for this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u126	There is also a national tax scheme for special health care. This combination means that we specifically support this group of people in their income. The Nibud did not take into account the customization of the municipalities and the fact that these budgets are simply available. That doesn't come back to the Nibud's calculation. That means that I found her conclusion too short on this point. The VVD asked about the future of the MIRT after 2028. We are currently running an ibo that focuses heavily on the timing and planning horizon of the MIRT. We are also very much looking at a more flexible interpretation. These are now budgets which, as Mr Harbers said, are long in advance. We are working with the Ministry of I and M to see if a more flexible programmatic approach can be found. At the beginning of next year, we will come up with our vision. In that letter to the Chamber, I propose that we include the question of whether the horizon should be shifted, which is now 2028 and, if so, whether it should be added a year a year or whether a major step should be taken in one go. Then the gas extraction. I think Mrs Schouten knows my answer to my question. At the end of the year, the Minister of EZ will take a new guest mining decision with the production ceiling for 2016. A number of studies are currently under way. The debate on this issue has often been held with the Minister of EZ. We shall then incorporate that into the budget. So we can only process a new gas decision at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u127	I did not ask the Minister of Finance to give an opinion on the reduction of gas extraction. However, its budget is based on a gas extraction of 33 billion cubic metres. My question was: what are the consequences at the moment that extraction is going to go down and where is it going to get the resources out of? Wouldn't it be better for us to take that decision right now, so that everyone knows where he is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u128	I wouldn't know what decision to make. That is, of course, the problem. It needs to be substantiated and this requires a gas extraction decision from the Minister who deals with this on the basis of various opinions. Another point is that there is always a lot of uncertainty about gas revenues. I just said that we are now 5 billion lower than the expectations at the beginning of the cabinet period. That's not just the gas tap that closed. This is largely due to gas prices, which are much lower than we saw coming a few years ago. There's always great uncertainty there. That is why we have placed him outside the framework. If we get extra money, it will not lead to more expenditure, but if we fail, then we do not have to make acute cuts. There is one scenario left, namely that it is so disappointing, that we are losing so much, that we would come up against the European guardrail. I don't think so. In addition, in that extreme case, that is a very extreme case, of course, we will appeal to the special circumstances, because they are. Once again, that is far beyond the margins that Mrs Schouten is thinking of. It's not framework-relevant. I'm not gonna cut it. That's the brief summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u129	That's not what I'm asking. If the Minister looks at our counter-budget, he will see that we are not going to cut it either. The point is that we can now at least clarify in the budget that there is room for reduction. That decision can then be substantiated later. It also seems to me that the Minister himself calls this argument a very wise moment, because the price of oil is still low, which in fact means that we have much less revenue from the gas we are pumping up and from which all those Groningers felt the consequences again last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u130	That discussion really needs to be conducted with the Minister of EZ. We are not increasing the production of gas and we are not cutting it back because of the current energy price. That is not the problem. The bottleneck factor is, of course, the safety and security of gas supply for Dutch households and companies. The Minister of EZ is looking at this as critically as possible, to see what is possible to further improve security. That's not what we're gonna decide right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u131	I also have a question about this, because people in Groningen are working very hard on this after yesterday's earthquake. I understand that the decision of the cabinet will be taken in December, on the basis of reports. That's how it goes. You can't just call a new quantity here today. I would like to know from the Minister of Finance what is leading in this respect. Is the financial return leading, or are security and energy supply guiding? Energy supply must also be mentioned, because if there were no gas, we would have to shut down all companies. Is the consideration also leading to the need for a transition to a sustainable economy, in which we are less dependent on gas? That would give direction to the debate on this issue, which the PvdA considers desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u132	The financial returns are certainly not leading. On the one hand, there is the problem of the safety of the Groningers. This security must be further improved as soon as possible. On the other hand, there is the bottleneck of short-term security of supply. The Minister of EZ is now looking at how far we can go and at what rate we can return to improve security as soon as possible. At the same time, security of supply for Dutch households must be monitored. That's the route we choose. The proceeds in financial terms are certainly not leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u133	May I summarize it as follows, and join with Mrs Schouten's interruption? Safety's leading. This will be decided in the autumn. There will be no additional savings if less gas is extracted than foreseen. So there is something in the current budget, but if it is decided to reduce the amount of gas that will be produced, there will be no additional savings. Less gas is what the cabinet wants and is the guiding principle, but that needs to be inventoried. A decision on this will be taken in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u134	That's right. I come to the appropriate education. Secretary of State Dekker has sent the Chamber a letter on this matter. I don't know if I should go into that anymore. However, Mr Koolmees himself raised this issue. I myself have experienced the introduction of this appropriate subject as a spokesperson for education. There is, of course, no cuts, partly thanks to our commitment. No, I'm sorry, I can't say that anymore. Partly thanks to the efforts of various political groups in the Chamber, this austerity has been averted from appropriate education. The introduction is indeed complicated. Of course, we have always known that there are schools that would rather not include these children in the classroom. There are teachers who still need to be trained and work on their skills to cope with this. For this, budgets are available and are provided for. This will enable these teachers to be further trained, trained and so on. Funds have been transferred to the partnerships. However, it must work and it must be removed from bureaucracy. Read the Children's Ombudsman's report for this. However, I do not believe that we can solve this type of problem now with targeted extra money. That is also supported by Secretary of State Dekker in an extensive letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u135	Secretary of State Dekker has indeed sent the Chamber an extensive letter. There is much to read about coordination and about new ways of making it work better. That's a good thing. However, the point is that many studies, including the Children's Ombudsman, show that a very large proportion of teachers, namely 84%, think that there are simply too few hands in the classroom to help with the lessons in the appropriate education. They think that there really needs to be extra attention for those children to make sure that there is just good teaching. That is why, during the General Political Reviews, we tabled a motion calling for money to be made available to class assistants. This not only concerns an aspect of introduction, but is also a structural aspect. In doing so, we want to ensure that schools are given a little more space to shape this in the classroom as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u136	Yes, I myself read in the letter of Secretary of State Dekker and in the documents of the Kinderombudsman. However, the advice is not to put more money in it, but to strengthen the position of parents and to ensure that schools comply with the law. Schools have a duty of care. The opinion is to ensure that the bureaucracy, which is still in legislation, is removed and that all kinds of obstacles are removed. The advice is to ensure that the partnerships are much better placed to serve parents and children. Every child has a right to a place. The advice is, therefore, to keep an eye on the objectives of this law. It didn't say "clear 200 million for more hands in class." I do know there's been a survey of teachers. I think they said it a little more nuanced. It was said that we do not feel sufficiently equipped or able to deal with all those different children in the classroom. That, of course, remains a challenge. Precisely for that, OCW and the schools have budgets. They're meant to teach teachers. Thanks to the commitment of D66, money is available for teacher policy. All right, more money will always be welcome, but if I read the analyses correctly, lack of money at the moment is not at the heart of the problem. An amendment has been announced about extra money for the Defense Department. I haven't seen that yet, but I'll go into it as soon as I get it, possibly in the second term. I come to the financial sector. D66 has made a number of proposals on the financial sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u137	In the meantime, the amendment has been neatly covered here under number 8, as requested by the Minister. I assume the Minister has not yet seen that "judgement chamber" will follow in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u138	That's the amendment on Defense. I'd like to return to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u139	I thought this was the block about purchasing power. After all, the Minister mentioned a number of measures specific to a one-off purchasing power repair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u140	Doesn't the Secretary of State do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u141	Yeah, but it's about tax measures. It is true that there are also tax measures, but the Minister just mentioned them. Frankly, I had expected a clear cup of purchasing power from the Minister. However, the four measures mentioned by the Minister, the 900 million package, are all one-off measures. That wrings, 'cause you're gonna have to do it again next year. I have heard the Prime Minister say: we do that every year. How do we do that every year? Apparently, the PvdA has to fight for that every year. In itself that is very nice for the VVD, but good. You should be glad it stays the same. Isn't that a crazy starting point? One of the measures is not to allow the rent increase to continue. That's not a purchasing power repair, is it? First you make it worse and then you make it less bad. That's not a real measure, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u142	What happens with the rent payment year in, year out......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Expenditure on the rent supplement increases every year. So we did not put a targeted austerity measure on that, but fixed budgetary rules. Minister Blok must also keep his budget in order. He has to deal with higher expenses for the rent allowance every year. He must therefore, in principle, take measures to remain below his budget. Because we wanted a number of purchasing power repairs for specific groups, we said: do not do that next year. The Prime Minister is absolutely right, every year in August we look at whether purchasing power should be repaired and how best to do so. Perhaps next August's rent payment will be a very effective instrument for fixing purchasing power for certain groups. But we do not know that yet, which depends on how these groups stand next year. You are right, they are temporary measures, but it is not the case that we have first decided to cut down on the rent payment so that we can stop doing so. This is just controlling budget that would otherwise get out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u143	The result after purchasing power repair, as shown by questions answered, is that out of the four income groups the lowest get €220 and the highest, i.e. incomes of €95.000 and more, get €1.550. So that's after repair. Then you can't really say that everyone gets the same amount in this time of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u144	We have not argued that either. As you know, we have designed a 5 billion package which is very much aimed at workers and workers with lower incomes within it. This is where we found the tax burden, the marginal pressure, a problem. That 5 billion will mainly end up there. We have not said that we are going to shape all the measures in such a way that everyone in euros is making the same progress. We did not adopt that approach. This package is very focused on work. We then found, in terms of purchasing power repair, that benefit recipients and the elderly were really deteriorating. We have repaired that, so that they are at least also at group level, because individually you can never say that 'in a plus'. That is the choice we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u145	I, too, was pleased with the recovery of purchasing power, otherwise it would have been very disastrous, but I was also surprised at the one-off nature of it. This seems to be the result of the structural choices we have made. The loss of purchasing power, the wrong purchasing power image, didn't come out of the sky. It seems that the problem is not a one-off problem and the Minister will be facing the same problem again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u146	No, you can't say that. That depends very much on the developments. That depends on many factors. The income position of older people also depends on the functioning of pension funds. The income-dependent development of benefit recipients also depends on the development of real wages in the market sector. There is, after all, a link. According to the CBP, the expected growth of wages in the market sector is still very moderate for the coming year, so the link does not yield much. Then maybe you need to fix a little extra for that. It could be different next year. If there are many collective agreements with an extra head, next year the link will be a bit more generous for people with benefits. So you cannot say: everything is temporary, so next year the same problem will return to the same extent. Mr Grashoff said that, but he did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u147	Does the Minister expect this problem to be or not next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u148	I really can't say. This is the Minister's game of sticking in a corner and then saying next year: you promised that... I dare to predict that there will probably be a need for purchasing power repair again, because we will do so every year in August. Then we look at economic development, wage developments and the way policies work out. The sum of this is a purchasing power picture and we say: well, that is ugly for some groups; that has to be done. So I think we will do that again next year, but perhaps in a very different way or for other groups, or perhaps for the same groups in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u149	I suggest we have dinner. After that, we are going to listen well-fed to the Minister's reflections on the financial sector and Europe. I see that Mr Omtzigt wishes to speak. Does he want to know what the menu is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u150	I'm more concerned with the financial menu for after the break. We had asked for a number of things. My colleague made a request to receive a letter on gas extraction before 6 p.m. We haven't had that letter yet. We also asked for the opinion of the Council of State on the energy efficiency of coal plants in the first period. We have asked to receive this for the government's term. Maybe those pieces could arrive at dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u151	I understand Secretary of State can answer this. Do you do that now or in your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u152	That's part of a cabinet response. It's in the making. It is likely that the document will be sent to the Chamber before the debate on the Tax Plan and certainly before the votes, but it will not be available this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u153	And the second letter about the gas extraction? That's more of the ministers, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u154	The request has not even reached me yet. I will inform myself of the content of the request and see if I can do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u155	The Minister of Finance has the floor again. I understand we have two more cubes, Professor. One concerns financial institutions and the other the EU. It would be nice if we could limit the interruptions to the end of those cubes. I think that the block about the EU is also quite long. We'll see. I hope that we can keep it short and pointy, otherwise it will be very late, and at least this President does not really want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mr. Chairman. I will try to do it as quickly as possible. Mr Koolmees has put forward a few ideas on admissions to the banking sector. I think a bank license light is a nice idea. I'd be happy to do some research on that. He also referred to England, where it was done in a similar form. We can take that with us in the current Actal investigation into entry barriers, especially with regard to the banking licence. I intend to come back to that when I respond to that Actal investigation. That's October, so later this month. We'll see if we can take it with us. Of course, this should not be at the expense of consumer protection and stability, but Mr Koolmees also agrees. It will also have to comply with European laws and regulations. Another proposal by Mr Koolmees was to set up a support point for advice on a licence application, so that newcomers can be helped. DNB has a market access expertise centre. I will enter into consultation with the supervisor on the extent to which potential entrants will be reached. In itself, that's the place where new entrants can come in. We can ask ourselves whether this is also service, as Mr Koolmees wants at the heart of the matter. I'll pick that up and I'll get back to that in my response to that Actal investigation. Then we have the subjects licence applications and different requirements together. Mr Koolmees also asked about equity and debt. The Secretary of State will answer that. That question is about equal treatment. This is also a relevant issue in the financial sector. Mr Nijboer has asked a question about banks that pay dividends to shareholders, while saying that because of the high buffer requirements they can grant less or no credit. That's weird, of course. If you can pay dividends and meet the buffer requirements, you can also grant credit, that is the reasoning. I think Mr Nijboer is right about that. You can also see that the lending is attracting again. The Netherlands is lagging behind in this. It has been bad in the Netherlands for a long time, because there was a major banking crisis, also in comparison with other countries. Banks have had to invest heavily in their balance sheets in recent years to make them stronger, but they are now profitable again and can provide more credit. They can also pay dividends. In this respect, I would point out that the limited lending of recent years to SMEs is primarily due to the decline in demand and, above all, to the quality of demand, according to various studies, because there was a major crisis in many sectors of SMEs, but this development is improving. Mr Nijboer asked about the plans with the SNS Bank. In mid-2016 I get a NLFI advice on this. We are still very much in the process of restructuring this bank. We've taken steps to separate the bank. We sold REAL as Vivat. In mid-2016 I get advice and only then will I decide on the future of SNS. Mr Harbers has asked for European legislation to be adapted to further reduce the risks of contamination in the financial sector. That is an important theme. These include the concentration of government bonds on bank balance sheets and the risk weights of government bonds, as well as other national discretions that are still present and which may pose risks. DNB is co-chair of the Basel Group, which is now really working on the risks of government bonds. The Ministry of Finance is represented in the European working group that is currently working on it. That European working group will present options to Finance Ministers during our Presidency in the first half of 2016. So it's on the agenda. Not only by the Netherlands, but also by several countries. At the same time, we have put the theme "too big to fail" on the agenda again. This is addressed by the introduction of system buffers and a minimal layer of bail-in power. Internationally, it is called TLAC and often MREL in Europe. It is also important to draw up resolution plans. In a resolution plan, a bank shows that it is settleable and has risk capital and bail-in capital. In addition, and on top of that, I am committed to empowering supervisors to also assess the effects on financial stability in the case of mergers or acquisitions and to make that competence explicit for the supervisors of our banks. Motions have also been adopted in the Chamber on this matter. Mr Van Dijck has asked why we should participate in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the AIIB. There is a major shortage of funding for infrastructure projects in Asia. The AIIB, which works as a bank and not as a fund, can contribute to this. Of course, we also have an economic interest in our business. It is important for our relations with Asian partners. So we have our own political and economic importance. The initial capital is set at 100 billion. The Dutch contribution amounts to 1 billion. I believe that Mr Van Dijck also mentioned this number. Of these, 80% is guaranteed capital and only 20% is paid in capital. That capital contribution shall be used for profitable investments. I believe that Mr Van Dijck suggested that we would put 1 billion of Dutch taxpayers in infrastructure or that we would do that as a gift. That is by no means true. It is a bank that lends for profitable investments. The capital injection is therefore much lower than 1 billion. That was the block of financial sector, Mr. Chairman. I now come to the block of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u157	That's the last block, I'll just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u158	Mr Nijboer made a point of the European budgetary rules. According to him, they're too complex, unpredictable and not transparent. According to Mr Nijboer, this leads to arbitrariness on the part of the Commission, which as a budgetary authority has far-reaching powers. The European budgetary rules are indeed complicated. Predictability is very limited. Even for the experts at my ministry, it is extremely difficult to predict what we will end up with in terms of improving the structural deficit. This is a problem from the point of view of democratic legitimacy and accountability to the outside world. If you can't explain the budget rules, you really have a problem. That's the core of what's going on. With the structural balance, which is also very volatile, this is true in overstepping stairs. We are therefore committed to achieving simpler rules. That is extremely complex. These rules have been established in a very difficult political process. There are all kinds of interests in this, but we absolutely must make a move in this, without weakening the framework. Moreover, in itself, the European rules are well compatible with trendary fiscal policies. However, the CPB warns that the risk of procyclical policies is greater as a Member State is closer to the limit value. Then you have to intervene very quickly, and with that very pro-cyclically, very strongly. As you are further away from the guardrail, as the Council of State always calls it, that risk is of course less. So that's where we're at. I think this is a good time for the Commission to work on an evaluation of the two-pack and the six-pack to conduct the debate on effective, verifiable and understandable budgetary standards. Mr Omtzigt asked questions about Greece. He asked whether the Chamber could be informed by the government of progress every two months from now. I don't think that's enough. I inform the Chamber much more often about Greece, at least in recent years. I do so through both the agenda and the report of the Eurogroup. It is also laid down in agreements with the Court on the provision of information that it is very important that, before a benefit or a instalment of a benefit takes place, the Chamber is informed, with an appreciation and the main conclusions of the corresponding progress report. Every time a subsequent step is taken or money is paid out, the Chamber is informed separately and in detail. Mr Omtzigt argued that the control of emergency funds should be improved, with reference to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. In a debate with Mr Koenders, he tabled a motion on this subject. The General Court recommends that the independent external audit of the EFSF be placed with the audit committee of the ESM. We have already explored this possibility in 2013, but it proved not to be legally possible. This has to do with the Luxembourg legislation under which the EFSF was established. However, the Board of Directors of the EFSF already decided in 2013 at the request of the Netherlands to set up an ESFS Audit Committee. This ensures control as much as possible. In addition, the General Court recommends that the ESM Audit Committee should use the Convention's possibilities to investigate the legality and effectiveness of spending. It must have sufficient capacity to do so. The capacity to support this audit committee has increased in recent years. The budget has also increased. My impression is that it is enough at the moment. I would welcome investigations into legality and effectiveness. In my response to the Court of Auditors' report, I indicated that I would discuss this with the Committee. You have to realise, however, that these emergency loans are mainly used for budget support. Checking the legality of expenditure from the budget of an individual country is up to the Court of Auditors of that individual country. Nevertheless, it is important to assess whether it serves its purpose as an aid instrument and is used effectively and efficiently. This is, of course, something different than when you give a direct grant, direct funding or project financing. These emergency loans are primarily intended for general budget financing. On this note, I agree that not only the formal legality but also the effectiveness of the instruments should be taken into account. So that's what I'm going to talk to the audit committee about. Mr Omtzigt made the necessary comments on the risks posed by ECB policy, leading to extremely low interest rates. It is true that extremely broad monetary policy, especially if it takes longer and we know a long period of low interest rates, can lead to the risk of new bubble formation in our economy. We ourselves must do what we can to prevent this. I am thinking, for example, of the reduction of mortgage interest rate deductions, higher buffers in the banking sector and stricter loan standards for mortgages. However, I cannot intervene in monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u159	In normal circumstances, a minister cannot and should not want to intervene in monetary policy. However, at the initiative of Mr Harbers, a motion was adopted which distanced itself from the last buy-back programme. That's pretty exceptional. Dutch policy has expressed itself quite widely that these buy-back programmes are so dangerous that they must be put to an end. How is it being worked to ensure that these programmes run as short as possible? There is a risk of this through the budget, which runs in the tens of billions. And the risks run through inflation and extremely low interest rates. This leads to significantly lower pensions and a considerable additional attack on savers. Does the Minister agree that the risk is too high and that the programmes should be as short as possible? And is he willing to go public with that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u160	I have given my opinion on the substance. Of course, this kind of exceptional monetary policy must be as short as possible, but the opinion which is 'as short as possible' is up to the monetary authority. I remember the motion of the VVD very well. I also remember explicitly saying that it was not an appeal to the cabinet to take action. It was just a judgment of the Chamber. I've taken note of that. I only assumed that it would be heard in Frankfurt. That is, of course, debatable in itself, because you are then exerting political pressure on central bankers who are really supposed to operate independently. That is also laid down in the Treaty. Anyway, it's up to the Chamber. The author of the motion has expressly stated that he does not expect anything from the cabinet on this point. I'm not going to intervene in monetary policy decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u161	The normal monetary policy has been laid down under the Treaty, but there have been some comments on the possibilities of buying up government bonds in a structural manner. There's a reason it's crossed all kinds of legal boundaries. Is the Minister prepared to say publicly that he wants that to end as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u162	No, that is not the Minister, for the fundamental reason that I do not think that politics should be responsible for monetary policy. That's dangerous. Even if you have questions or criticisms about the policy as it is now being pursued, I do not think that politics should intervene in it or exert pressure. Mr Harbers has asked questions about my speech in the presentation of the Millions Note. It wasn't that complicated, I can explain it again, but I won't for the sake of time. It was about pushing boundaries, about not being afraid. I did it mostly as a tribute to a generation. The name Lieftinck has already been mentioned, but I also mention Mom Wellenstein, who, after the war, helped to rebuild Europe in the European Coal and Steel Community. So it was primarily meant as a tribute to that generation, but also as a challenge to ourselves. What did I mean when I said, dare to look beyond borders? It was, of course, mainly about the asylum issue at that time. That was at least a few weeks ago, and that is actually the subject that dominated the media. I am convinced that a significant part of the solution must be found at European level. Mr Harbers was afraid that I would like to implement the Five Presidents' Report and the somewhat further and even more vague notions for the future in the short term. That's not true. They are very conscious in the later stages of the report. I myself am one of the authors of that report. We are convinced that convergence, and above all just hard economic convergence, is really crucial, of course, to a higher level, but also to a high level of convergence. Responsibility for this remains primarily with national Member States. That is not a political choice, but that is simply a fact. Problems in policies, weaknesses in economies can and will continue to have to be addressed mainly by national Member States. What is important for the short term is a further strengthening of the Banking Union. We were just talking about all kinds of risks that are still in bank accounts. And there will be a debate on bridge funding on the Resolution Fund, etc. So a number of elements of the banking union are already being addressed in the shorter term. We believe that all kinds of remaining risks in the banking balance sheet and in the financial sector as a whole should be addressed with priority. That will be the commitment of the Dutch government. The debate should not be about risk sharing, but about risk reduction. Then I come to a series of questions raised in the Ecofin/euro group. I'm gonna have to answer that, too. I will try to do so as briefly as possible. What is the state of affairs around Greece? As you know, the first tranche has not yet been paid out. This is now linked to all kinds of demands, 'priority actions', i.e. actions that the new Greek government, which is also the old Greek government, must take first. They're being prepared now. It has not yet been agreed, but it will be done in the near future. We are talking about some 45 prior actions to be carried out in many areas. If all this has happened, a further tranche can be made. The 3 billion will probably be paid out in two parts, coupled with two packages of measures. Later this month it will be considered whether this can be done. I will then, as I have just said, inform the Chamber of the steps that have been taken in terms of substance. There is no delay in the programme at the moment. Mr Nijboer asked for that. Next week I will be speaking to my Greek colleague and I will see how far they are going to be preparing for further steps to be taken in the coming period. Mr Harbers and Mr Merkies asked about the IMF's participation. There is nothing new about this at the moment. We know what the IMF's conditions are for re-entering and making available again the resources that they still have for Greece in principle. This will have to be worked out in the coming weeks and months. Part of the discussion is debt relief, which the IMF is asking for. I do not have any new information for the Chamber at the moment. Mr Merkies asked me about the five options of the CPB with regard to Greek debts. Those five options are write-off, guarantees to private financiers, extension of maturity, reduction of interest rates and deferral of interest payments. The Dutch government is not in favour of debt write-off. Moreover, this view is very broad within the euro group. There really is no basis for debt forgiveness. Other measures are conceivable, but very claused and only if necessary. Whether it is necessary to make the debt bearable year by year, we will discuss it with the IMF. No decisions have been made yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u163	The Central Planning Bureau also made clear in the report that it considered that, after this package of aid was given, the debt was still not sustainable. Does the Minister share this analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u164	No, not in advance. However, we have had this discussion before, so the President should tell him if I have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u165	It's a new report, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u166	Then the answer is just no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u167	There is a new report that we are discussing for the first time. It came out on Prince's Day and we haven't discussed it yet. It will be rather brief if the Minister only says "no." That would not do justice to the report either. The CPB comes with an analysis and says: on this basis Greece will no longer be able to refinance itself in 2018. Now the Minister says: it's really nonsense what the CPB says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u168	No, I would never dare say that from the CPB. It has a lot to do with assumptions and expectations. Our assumption is that Greece will be able to recover economically if the programme is implemented conscientiously. Our assumption is that Greece should be able to maintain a primary surplus. The CPB is extremely sceptical about this. You may and may, but these are our assumptions. These are also the agreements we make with the Greeks in the framework of the programme. Only if they comply with the agreements will we feel responsible for any debt relief. If the Greeks do not comply with the agreements, as the CPB may fear, then we are no longer bound by our agreement, our promise, to alleviate the debt if necessary. That's my opinion, my analysis, my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u169	The CPB does not say that it fears that the Greeks will not comply with the agreements. Then I'd be wronging the report. The CPB believes that the assumptions are very optimistic when it comes to the primary surplus and the revenue from privatisations. So that contradicts the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u170	I disagree. They're all assumptions, expectations and predictions. Most of the estimated proceeds from privatisations, which are not included in the programme at all, will be used to alleviate debt. Most of that 50 billion is just from the banks. How is that possible? This is possible because we have earmarked 25 billion in the programme to recapitalise the banks if necessary. Surely you can assume that after you have made them healthy, the banks can be privatised and have a real value on them again. Otherwise, we apparently have 25 billion in a bank with an infinite hole in it, when it was actually a bankrupt institution. If they're bankrupt, we're not gonna recapitalize them. If they're viable, we're gonna recapitalize them and sell them. Then there will be a profit. I'm sorry, but I've turned this subject inside out three times. Maybe I studied on it a little longer than the CPB. The CPB comes to different assumptions than me; it's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u171	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u172	Then I come to the interpretation of the rules when it comes to investment. From the outset, there is an investment clause in the SGP. Mr Harbers fears that we are alone in the strict approach. Let me start by saying that this is not true. That's never really true. We are always in the list of Germany, Finland, in this case Sweden, Denmark, Slovakia, Estonia and Latvia: the usual suspects. So we're not alone. The investment clause always existed. The Commission has always interpreted that clause strictly, especially at the time of Olli Rehn, which means that it has hardly been used. The Commission is now proposing to allow co-financing on EFSI investments. The Netherlands was not very enthusiastic about this, but within this limited approach it will not be used very much. Mr Harbers' second question was whether the investment clause will end when the EFSI ends. No, that is not the case, because the clause is contained in the Stability and Growth Pact. The Commission's interpretation now, however, is that it is also the Commission's competence to do so, namely that it is linked to the EFSI, is that it will expire again if EFSI ceases. It also asked why the investment clause only applies to co-financing of EU funds and not to national investments. I would certainly not want to extend it to national investments. That would mean that countries could say that half of their budget is an investment which they can ignore and the budgetary rules. I am not in favour of this, but I can see from Mr Harbers that he did not mean it that way either. The Netherlands is therefore really in favour of the strict approach. You may be able to exclude all kinds of things from the budgetary rules, but that doesn't reduce your debt. If it allows the deficit to be greater than the budgetary rules, it simply adds up to the debt every year. You can define it differently, but you keep paying for it, and that's a big risk to the future. I come to the reform clause. The cabinet is positive about this, but specifically for the preventive arm of the Pact. The Commission must, of course, make a rigorous assessment of this, but that is, of course, always the vulnerable part of the whole. There must then be a rigorous assessment of whether the reforms actually lead to structural improvements in the economy and the sustainability of public finances. But then you could take that into account at the rate at which the MTO is achieved. Here too, there must be a strict approach. However, I think this is an interesting improvement. Here too, a strict approach, but it is an interesting improvement. I thought Mr Dijkgraaf asked for an exception to the budget rules for the costs of refugees. What is the government's commitment to this? Within the preventive arm, there is the possibility to temporarily deviate from the requirements in the event of unusual events outside the control of a Member State that have a significant impact on public finances. This means that it can never be a generic exception, i.e. for all countries, or for an indefinite period. A certain category of expenditure will never suddenly be excluded. The ball was thrown up by Austria. I cannot judge it exactly, but Austria may have such a large influx of asylum seekers that it has so much extra expenditure unexpectedly and beyond the influence of the national authorities that it cannot comply with the budgetary rules. Then, on the basis of those particular circumstances and so on, and so on, the Commission will give one-off room for manoeuvre to Austria. But once again, not generic, not indefinitely and not for all countries. There is a genuinely individual assessment of whether this particular clause should be applied. We are going to talk about this in Ecofin, but I do not yet know how the European Commission, which has been asked to reflect on this issue, intends to deal with this issue. We'll probably find out after the weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u173	Through the President, I inform the Minister that I fully agree with the answer, but that I did not ask the question. I'm kind of happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u174	The headline above the answer is SGP, hence the confusion. I was thinking of the SGP, but it is the Stability and Growth Pact, the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u175	We stand for stability, growth and a pact. That's what we're gonna see in the next election.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u176	It was a question from Mr Harbers. The honor for this current question goes to him. Mr Harbers and Mr Koolmees asked questions about the bridge funding for the Resolution Fund. This fund will gradually be filled from this year on. It will officially start on 1 January 2016 and it will take eight years for it to be full. What are you doing in transition if it's cleared out earlier? In the intermediate phase there are still national compartments. If the compartment of the Netherlands is emptied, then the Netherlands is responsible and the Netherlands must advance the money to the compartment and later collect it from the Dutch banking sector. Of course, Mr Harbers and Mr Koolmees know that a complication is that the fund is gradually being mutuated, but this is what has been arranged for the eight years in which the fund is being built. National Member States shall form the public backstop or credit line for that part of the fund. It has been agreed, but this is purely a political agreement that there will be a bridge financing system before 1 January 2016. My simple view is that you should read the regulation. It states that the national Member State is responsible. Some Member States already want a joint credit line or guarantee, but I do not see any support for that at the moment. Something else is the public backstop in the final situation. We have agreed that there will be a common backstop, but then we will talk about 2024. Here too, some Member States have said that it is more important to make decisions about this. The Five Presidents' Report says that we are going to talk about it earlier, but it will not be easy to make a decision about it because there are differences of opinion. During the negotiations on this subject, I supported a loan line from the Resolution Fund directly on the capital market. That possibility has also been created, but it is unlikely that it will have the power, certainly not in the first few years, to obtain sufficient credit on the capital market in the event of a really large banking crisis. In itself, the Resolution Fund may borrow directly up to a certain amount. Here is what I said earlier: the Dutch Government's view is that it must now be primarily and primarily about reducing the risks in the banking union, the differences between countries and the differences in banking balance sheets. We do not need to take any major steps now, nor should we have to take any small steps in the area of further risk-sharing. The order has to be right. I'm only gonna skip a few, with the risk of you calling me to order. Mr Merkies asked about the FTT. There's no news on that. There's no match yet. Mr Merkies also asked about the possibility of Catalonia leaving the euro area. I'm not gonna get involved in that. I thought Catalonia was still part of Spain and is therefore also a member of the euro area. If that situation changes, I will first hear it from Spain. Questions have been asked about the climate, first of all in a more general sense about climate policy and Urgenda. The Chamber knows the cabinet response. The verdict is immediately enforceable. This means that we are now preparing for any additional measures, if they are necessary. A number of routes are now underway for this purpose. Decisions will be taken at the beginning of next year. The issue of international climate financing is important to me because I share my responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u177	Mr Grashoff, the Minister will finish the point of climate first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u178	That's quite a package, but I'd be happy to. Mr Nijboer asked what was recently agreed at the informal Ecofin Council on climate finance. No agreement has yet been reached on European commitment. This will be done at the Ecofin Council in November. Mr Nijboer has asked whether we are on course and whether there will be 100 billion. I am confident that we will come to a new climate agreement in Paris. The political will is there to my perception with all the great players. The same applies to the 100 billion. The EU has committed itself to this and the Netherlands too. At least we have fulfilled our commitments so far. The 100 billion may come from both public and private sources. According to the Sjoerdsma motion, the Dutch commitment is to generate 50% private funding. At the IMF and World Bank meetings, which will take place in the course of next week, OECD will present a report on how much climate finance is already provided by the different countries. We will also send that report to the Chamber. Mr Nijboer also asked what the role of the various countries is. Is the Netherlands a pioneer? During the climate summit, the EU negotiates as a collective. Within the EU, the Netherlands is among the five countries most committed to climate finance, after France, Germany, the UK and Sweden, but they are much larger. So we are one of the leaders in the area of climate finance. I do not see any major differences of opinion within the EU. As President of the Paris Conference, France is very active in bringing everyone together. We also hope that it will be a dynamic agreement, in which the number of countries contributing will be increased and extended to the larger emerging or emerging countries such as South Korea, Singapore and Saudi Arabia. They can also contribute to carrying capacity. The Dutch public expenditure on climate finance amounted to 352 million for 2014, according to the realisation figures. For 2015, 340 million is budgeted and 350 million for 2016. In addition, of course, there are private expenses. We cannot budget it, but we hope that this year there will be 100 million and next year there will be 200 million in private contributions. Next year, the Netherlands will be at 550 million. Of course, public expenditure is largely integrated with OS expenditure on water, food security and renewable energy projects. In addition, the Netherlands contributes to the Green Climate Fund, i.e. the Green Climate Fund, with 100 million in the period up to 2018, to the Climate Investment Fund with 76 million in the period up to 2016 and to the Global Environment Facility with 20 million. The Netherlands is therefore very active in this and makes a great contribution. In the international rankings, the Netherlands is in ninth place. Partly in the light of "Paris," there is another discussion on definitions and on what is or is not included. Of course, you have to establish that with each other, otherwise it doesn't make much sense to commit to 100 million. I expect agreement to be reached on this. It's about a variety of themes that all count. I'm not gonna tire the Chamber with that. Mr Grashoff made a remark about Mark Carney in an interruption. As I said, I have had parliamentary questions from GroenLinks before. I later put it to the Dutch Bank. Mark Carney is the Klaas Knot of the United Kingdom, including Scotland, for the time being. On the basis of an investigation, the Dutch Bank informed the Chamber of what I also sent, namely that, according to the Dutch Bank, in September 2014, there was no excessive credit risk of the Dutch financial sector on companies active in the oil, gas and coal industries. Later, in May this year, GroenLinks asked questions about the exposure of pension funds to CO-intensive sectors. Based on the same analysis of DNB, I said that I do not expect any major risks there either. The Financial Stability Board, the International Stability Committee, chaired by Mark Carney, has put this issue on its agenda. On 24 September last, it held a conference on this subject in the G20 framework. It is currently considering possible follow-up steps to ensure financial stability on this issue. If anything comes out of that, I'll inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u179	That means I have one and a half interruptions now, because I'd like to come back to that "Carney." That was like half an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u180	You have 1.3 interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u181	Then I would like to return to the climate of the Dutch budget. First of all, I am aware of the answer to the written question and of course of the previous matter. I looked into that before I asked that question here. It is striking that Carney has made comments again. If you look at the previous answer, you will notice that there is a very short and relatively superficial analysis of DNB, which others contradict in part. Your answer does say that different sources have been used and that it can be just that. There are very large differences, also in width. Mr Carney sees a three-stroke. Firstly, he sees risks in terms of enormous damage caused by natural disasters, weather change, climate change and so on, of which we find a very small part in our climate adaptation, I think. Secondly, he sees that these fossil fuels are largely grounded, which means that they need to be downgraded. Thirdly, he sees a question of liability arise, because it is possible to claim it from those responsible. That's his statement. What has come back to this so far despite the intrusive questions of GroenLinks is a bit simple. It's said, well, we took a look at it and that's it. These are risks to the State: natural gas benefits, but also costs in the context of public provision for climate adaptation and so on. It concerns the banking sector, the insurance sector and pension funds. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to show much more in width and on a macro scale that risks in their interlinkages for the Dutch State and the institutions. Wouldn't that be wise? I have heard the Minister say in this debate that it would be wise not to reform if the water is on our lips, but to keep doing so gradually. This could give rise to one of the biggest reforms in our economy, in our society. Is the Minister prepared to take a fundamental look at these risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u182	We can talk about it for a long time and we can talk about it briefly. I suggest that, with Governor Carney's analysis in hand, I ask the Netherlands Bank again to see if his previous position is still entirely adequate and to broaden it to insurers, pension funds and banks. However, the Netherlands Bank will give an opinion on the Netherlands. In my view, Carney spoke mainly as chairman of the international financial stability committee under the G20. Then you may see quite different risks than specific ones for the Dutch insurers and the Dutch banking sector. I hope that Mr Grashoff will exercise mental openness to see that there may be a difference. Let us ask the Dutch Bank again whether its previous analysis is still fully up-to-date in the light of the discussion under the FSB umbrella. I am sure the Dutch Bank will be prepared to do so. Maybe he can do that in a letter advice. I can then forward that to the Chamber and then we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u183	There are times when you hope you're wrong. I think that the Netherlands is so connected with the international situation that I do not think that there is any reason to assume that it is much more favourable in the Netherlands than it is on a large scale international. However, I would almost hope that it was. I have one supplementary question. DNB can of course look at the institutions, but the minister can look at the risks in the financial sense for the State. Does he want to take that aspect with him? I think it is an unbreakable whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u184	Yeah. I don't quite see it, but I'll think about it. Then I come back to that updated letter from DNB. Mr Grashoff, for example, mentions gas extraction. However, gas extraction is going to go down very quickly to a very low level in the Netherlands. If he means the damage caused by gas extraction, we already have it. If he means liability for that, he's already playing. In the case of gas extraction, I think that we already have the problem, regardless of the climate effects, in full: financial risks, liability, damage, etc. I'm thinking about if there's any other angles to come up with. I would like to say to Mr Grashoff that we should not underestimate it, which leads us to discover too late that we are at great risk here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u185	Mr President, may I make my thought-interruption on climate policy in relation to the budget now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u186	Yes, we are all waiting for that with sorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u187	The minister went on the Urgenda case. Of course, much has been said about this. Its impact on our budget can of course be substantial. We have to note that the cabinet says it is going to execute that verdict, which involves an additional 15 megatons reduction. We then note that in the budget, in the Millions' Note, there are no measures, no charges and no announcements or preludes to measures. In the course of this debate, several things have happened, including the adoption of the Klaver and others motion recently in the APB. which says that we want to see additional measures as early as 2016. That's embraced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u188	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u189	Can the Minister tell me how he intends to deal with the budgetary aspects and the fiscal aspects associated with them, which will undoubtedly play a role in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u190	I can't do that yet. I have already said that there are now a number of routes where we are looking at what is needed and how it could be done. I do not rule out the possibility of finding even smarter solutions in these pathways. You cannot exclude an even smarter or more effective use of our subsidies for renewable energy. So the answer is, no, I can't do that right now. I have already said that we will return to the Chamber at the beginning of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u191	I assume that the cabinet will go to that Paris climate summit with the greatest possible ambition. I asked what they'd come up with. What's the bet? In answer to that question, I hear what I hear more often. Then there are lists to show how the Netherlands is doing. I would also like to point out in this connection that the case of Urgenda proves that the Netherlands is lagging behind in these international agreements. I am not interested, however, in hearing how the Netherlands is doing it, but to hear with what effort the Netherlands is going to Paris. We have already asked questions about this at the Ecofin meeting. This was about climate finance. Then the Minister said: well, then we have to look at that definition and then there will be a lot of these companies. I think there's a catch there. The Minister may then later say: yes, the companies did not deliver. Isn't it much more convenient to say what governments need to deliver?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u192	Yes, but there is also a Chamber statement, which appeals to me, which states that the private sector can and must make an important contribution to this. I'm talking about the Sjoerdsma motion. Mr Sjoerdsma's motivation was also that he does not want this to be limited to the external trade and development cooperation budget alone. However, I mentioned the numbers to the Chamber. That's why I've gone into it so extensively. The commitment of the Netherlands is already great. That is clear from the budget. We are not going to Paris with our own position, by the way. That's what I've been trying to explain to the Chamber. The EU is going there with an ambitious commitment to make sure that this 100 billion is actually there. It has never been the EU's commitment. Other EU countries have already mentioned really ambitious amounts. I call France, Germany, the United Kingdom. All these countries are going to the climate summit with great ambitions. They're going to show that they're willing to carry their share of the 100 billion. The debate is much more about what other countries, including other rich countries, can contribute, i.e. countries that have not contributed in the past. The discussion is about what more the private sector can do. However, I will come back to this in November when the EU's deployment is ready. Then there is another AO Ecofin Council. In advance, I will inform the Chamber, and afterwards, about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u193	A deal was made at some point about 100 billion. Many have probably thought: this is about the commitment that governments have to make. This is actually reduced by the fact that it may also be partly done by companies. If that were to happen, the definition issue would be working in the wrong direction. That may not be the Minister's intention, but that is precisely why I would like to know what the stakes are. The Minister should not just say: the EU has a commitment and that is our commitment. I hope that it will be the other way around, so that we in the Netherlands show what we are doing, so that, among other things, the EU's commitment can be determined on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u194	I will return to the commitment to the negotiations in more detail before we hold the AA on the Ecofin Council in November. The November meeting then set out the EU's negotiating commitment. The EU countries do go to these negotiations with one commitment. Before then, however, I will come back to the Chamber on what the Dutch commitment is for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u195	I see that Mr Merkies wants to respond to this again, but I ask the Minister to conclude now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u196	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u197	Ah, it can't be any better. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u198	Mr. Chairman. I've got four cubes. I'll go into box three first. The only question asked by as many as six political groups is: why can't it stand a real return? I have a rather detailed answer to that. But looking at the clock, I promise to hold out my antennae and that if I see too many people looking on their cell phone, I will secretly cut a turn. You wouldn't know that, would you? In block 2 I go into the greening and then there are other questions. As said before, first box 3. The important question asked by many groups was why it could not be done already: taxing against real returns. Mrs Schouten asked that, Mr Merkies, Mr Koolmees and, I think, Mr Dijkgraaf. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Harbers have asked the question in a slightly different way. They asked: what are we going to do to make it possible? After all, it shouldn't be that difficult and other countries are doing it. I find that question not only very useful, but also very understandable. I had that question myself a year ago. My letter therefore stated that we were going to try to tax more according to real profitability. At the very last moment I put in that there were perhaps still flat-rate elements. But the primary approach was clear: taxing against real return. This gradually became more complex and complex. At one point I lost so much time that my 13-year-old daughter, when I looked at home a little painfully, asked me: Dad, are you back in box 3? So I have my own box at home. However, the question is a good one. The public support for box 3 is a bit under pressure. Many taxpayers really have the feeling of being pushed for a return that they can't remember. For many, the real return is a fairer starting point. Frankly, I do not see any political differences there. That is something many people share, and that is also the case in the cabinet. That is where we started, and that is what we have investigated. Before we went into that, I gave myself two warnings. Those two warnings are important, even in the future. Firstly, it must be feasible, not only because we have often saddled the Tax Administration with things that have not been feasible at all in recent years, but also because feasibility in box 3 is also about avoidance. Charges on power are very sensitive to construction and I have promised the House of Representatives to reduce the tax gap, not increase it. Executableness is directly linked to tax avoidance. Is it now the best executable load in our range, for 2001 it was among the top ten problems, with all the diversion and leakage of that. In the 12 years to 2001, we lost half of our revenue, half of it! Go, build away. The second warning I gave myself concerns the VIA, the pre-filled declaration. She's so underrated, but I've been running her for maybe the most successful ICT project in the Empire. We are almost used to it, but more than 60% of Dutch taxpayers and soon 80% and then 95% can pay their taxes by simply pressing a button. This is the story we told on birthdays 15 years ago. "Of course, all you have to do is press a button, that everything has already been filled in and that you have paid your taxes." That country is the Netherlands and no one is doing that to us yet! Why is that important? Why did I give this warning to myself? Because the VIA has not only freed the taxpayer from the shoe box, but also because this system, Mr Omtzigt, says something I cannot understand, especially for the Tax Administration, is very important. After all, it means ex ante control. Every Dutchman is actually pre-checked. That means that we can put the real inspectors on the real risks. Those two warnings I gave myself. We then spoke to foreign tax authorities, banks, investment firms and consultants. We've been looking at the internal systems. Don't forget our invaluable Coordination Group on Construction Control, internally called the CCB. There are fanatics who think about constructions and then try to scorch them shut. The conclusion of the study is that I think that in the long term it is quite conceivable to impose a tax on real returns, but that this is not the case now. I will explain in such a way why I think it can, but after that we still have to think very carefully about the design. After that, we really need to get to work on these avoidance structures, because we're not gonna launch a system with the same avoidance structures. We're not gonna do that. Then these systems need to be improved throughout the chain. Part of the chain is the IRS. Outside there are all other parts of the chain. That is not possible in one or two years, but I think it is feasible. There's more to it than that. The lesson we have learned over the past year is: if we really want to do this, then I have to get going too, because it doesn't go by itself. I therefore intend to continue to do so and to ensure that we take steps that may make it possible to do so in three years' time. We can't do that alone. I'll have to get on my knees to our chain partners to ask them for cooperation. I come to the feasibility. In addition, I would like a little bit of depth. I will try to keep the lecture short, but I would like to remind you a little bit of what it takes to tax the real return against the real return. There are two types or two families of ways to do that. The first is the family of capital gains taxes. With a capital gain tax, you tax the total difference between purchase and sale plus any additional net income. That's what you do at the time of sale. So when you sell your shares, you charge for how much you bought them at the time, and you pay taxes on them. It is therefore based on the cash flows. You pay the tax the moment you realize it. The second is the power increase tax. That is a tax on the increase in value and the additional revenue. You can do that every year. Then you charge the return at the time it exists on paper, but not to a large extent in the wallet. Let's drop them off one by one, starting with the capital gains tax. I say to you: there are some problems; the capital gains tax has not become my favorite. The capital gains tax is applied remarkably in the UK and also in Germany in a variety of ways, but it is impossible to call it problem-free. In the newspaper is always the story that it can be done abroad. Well, that depends very much on your definition of 'can' and 'it', because in no country is it actually taxed and whether it succeeds, I will leave it to the Court to assess when we pass some of those countries. What about the capital gains tax on shares? In this form of taxation, once you have sold your shares, you need to know what amount you have ever bought in for. That's tricky. You're gonna need a whole paperwork for that. How would that work? Well, that's funny. We are, of course, doing the same thing. We do that in box 2. But suppose you bought your shares of Royal Oil at three different times, which one do you sell? Are those the first shares you bought or the last? That is what we have invented the average acquisition price, with a long-term administration for all those different shares. So that is what we are doing for the significant stakeholders, of which there are 300,000. That's a phenomenal circus. These are taxpayers who are largely supported by consultants and who in many cases have outsourced the entire declaration. For those 300 000 professional taxpayers, that's a lot of hassle. If we let go of the same construction on 3.5 million individuals, it will not only be a disaster for those individuals back to the shoebox, but it will also be a disaster for the Tax Administration. Then we can fear avoidance and recall the inspectors from the risk groups. In the case of real estate, this method is even more problematic. You'd say: you sell the house and then you look at what you've ever bought it for, that's not such a hassle, you don't have to have a long-term administration for that, that's pretty easy to tell. But with the difference between buying and selling, you can't make it. With this simple method, those who have renovated the house see the increase in value due to remodeling at the same time as 30%; the remodeling tax. Our neighbouring countries have also found solutions to this. Then you have to deduct the renovation costs from the profits. But what is remodeling and what is regular maintenance? I understand that in England there is case law that is so high. I will mention a flying anecdote about what has been laid down in this case law and how it is going to be done. All in all, this is the return of the shoe box, with all the receipts of the necessary renovations. I do not want to leave aside the fact that in this way of burdening there are very large behavioural effects that we also know from other spheres. Then it's a delay. Profits will be postponed and losses will be brought forward. If someone in box 3 can switch to an investment with more profit, he will not do so, because then he has to deal with the past. The higher return on this may be disappointing, so it will remain in less profitable investments. These are all effects that are real in other countries. It is also common for capital gains and dividends to be treated differently. Then you're back in the pre-2001 situation. Then there are all kinds of financial products on the market that ensure that annual revenu are converted into capital gains. This can then be postponed for a very long time, in many cases until the death of the taxpayer. My interim assessment is that the capital gains tax is not a strong candidate for the final picture. Before I go to the next section, I see Mr Merkies looking very closely there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u199	Let's finish box three, because it's so exciting. I don't want to interrupt you, because that's gonna cost viewers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u200	Then I come to the second method. I don't see you all looking on the phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u201	Hold it, hold it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u202	The capital increase tax is to determine annually what price gain is and what other revenues are. That's more behavior. To do so, you need to know the initial value, the final value, the withdrawals and the additions. This requires a much more comprehensive ICT infrastructure than we have now, but we can imagine that. The Germans decorated it something like that. That is not possible within one or two years, but it is conceivable. That's where I hope it can exist. If we don't have that infrastructure, it's gonna be the shoeboxes, and then there's gonna be avoidance. A task would be to provide good infrastructure. Can you do real estate like that? Then you'd have to take the annual WOZ rise. Then you come across the problem of remodeling again. If you don't take it and don't jerk off, you'll have the renovation tax back. All in all, that remains very vulnerable. For real estate, the capital charge leads to the same problems. My interim assessment is that a capital increase tax is a much more promising route than the capital gain tax, when it comes to shares, but that real estate does not fit into either tray and probably will have to stay flat-rate. This raises the important question of whether a mixed system is possible. Does avoidance occur when you do something with a laundry tax, but keep some things on a flat-rate basis? The major circumvention before 2001 could be done thanks to a mixed system. A flat-rate system works with a reference date. If you avoid the time limit, the power will not be counted. Then you come back two days after the measuring date with your ability. So you didn't do it. That happened on a large scale. In addition, the evasive assets were the volatile assets. Real estate is different. You can't sell your house for two days to someone who's not in box 3. So that seems less volatile. I have an important comment to make. With me in my office, people are walking around thinking that this kind of avoidance construction is also possible with real estate. So they're studying very hard on that. All in all, however, this could be a route, so I rely on the construction fighters. I think it's imaginable, not now, ever. It's not easy. We need the chain partners. We don't want to go back to the time of the receipts. We really need to make sure that there is no circumvention. We want to put the inspectors on the risk groups and not on the ordinary citizen-taxpayer in box 3. That means there's work to be done. A construct must be devised for each asset title. The possibilities of abuse must be tested and tested to the maximum and it must be considered whether they can be seared shut. We need to get the ICT through the chain. I think it's very likely. This could make the current system an intermediate system. I'll be back on the other system later. The question of the feasibility of taxing the real return is often accompanied by the claim that it is all easier in other countries. We have, of course, looked at the countries around us. I note that it is not easy at all by our standards. For example, there is a great deal of exemption. Very often foundations are sacrificed, because it is very difficult to implement, for example by many exemptions. It's often a lot of shoe boxes and lawsuits. Just look at exemptions. There are 250,000 people in the famous Capital Gains Tax in the UK. We are talking about 3.3 million, whereas the UK really is a bigger country. I will mention a number of examples later, but a lot is not being done. Let me start with Belgium. In Belgium, as it is called, the normal management of private assets is provided by a person who has a definition for that purpose. In Belgium, the rate gains may not be taxed. However, current income and dividends are taxed. This is the Netherlands for 2001. We looked in the archives at the various financial products that existed then to pump up price gains and reduce the remaining profits to zero. We also find them on the Belgian market. So I don't think that's a good system. It cost us half the proceeds. We've got all kinds of complicated repair legislation on it. But that didn't help. For real estate, a flat-rate approach is chosen in Belgium. I know that from my own speech earlier. However, capital gains on built-up property are exempt from tax. If you do not want to levy the tax, the implementation is also a lot easier. That could be a route. I think Mr Harbers argued for that yesterday. If you exempt from any capital gains after five years of building property, you have, of course, exempted most of it on balance. In the UK there is the Capital Gains Tax. Interest or dividend goes through a kind of 20% tax on income tax, but there is a kind of reduced Ib rate on that. The capital gains are thus in principle taxed according to the capital gains principle. So at the time of realization, you pay tax on that. Then it is important to know what the tax-free foot in England is. The free foot for capital gains in England is more than £11,000 in the UK, which is €15,000 in the UK, but that amount is not comparable to that €25,000 in the UK. It is the capital gains that are exempt. If you let go of the Dutch 4% return, the English actually have a tax-free capacity of almost €400,000. This also applies: if you don't handle a lot, it's easier to implement. However, I do not know whether there is any willingness to do so in the Chamber. Again, the proceeds of the Capital Gains Tax throughout England are lower than the equivalent in the Netherlands. The disadvantage of such a system is that you can endlessly reverse and postpone the Capital Gains Tax. It leads to opportunities to convert one type of capital gain into another type of capital gain. In England it has become a sport to neatly limit your capital gains every year to the tax-free amount. That way you can tune it so much that you don't have to pay taxes. For real estate in them all kinds of distinctions are made......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The non-rented real estate Read: the holiday homes go through the Capital Gains Tax. That is where they run into the need to remove the costs of the renovation, because the increase in value due to the renovation is seen as a capital gain, while you have actually paid for it yourself. Then the question arises as to whether something is just maintenance or renovation. There is so much case law about this that there is an anecdote about it, which we have not been able to find in English case law. In fact, there would be court rulings as to whether there are other rules for replacing single glass with double glazing, which is a house improvement, i.e. a renovation if the window had first been tangled by a footballing neighbor. Then the glass is already broken and the investment is partly a replacement investment. That would have a different effect in this tax. This is the kind of case law you get when you do it like this. It provides trucks with receipts and long discussions. Then we come to Germany. In Germany, the revenue levy has been outsourced to the financial institutions. It's possible. Not only the administration, but also the contribution is made by the financial institution. I am still not quite sure how that works, but it is in any case done entirely by the financial institutions. They keep track of that, too. The 25% Kapitalertragssteuer is paid to the tax authorities. There are also flat-rate elements and cost deductions. This is done by the institutions. From this we have to realise that financial institutions are not responsible for keeping records of this kind; let me put it this way. This would possibly be applicable in the Dutch system. In the case of immovable property, the net rental income is taxed in Germany. Well, that's another real receipt factory. However, with the capital gains realised, the Germans are just as smart as other neighbouring countries of ours. In Germany, ten years after purchase, the need for taxation of capital gains on immovable property lapses. The really larger capital gains are the profits that arise after a long time and have a large volume of the asset, as most real estate is not resold within ten years. Once again, anyone who does not burden something does not have the implementation problems either. The Americans have done research and investigated all kinds of ways to tax property. They found that 38% of their taxpayers who had acted in securities had deliberately or unconsciously wrongly reported profits or losses to the tax authorities. It is also a system in which the taxpayer himself must act. 38% would have done that wrong. This will therefore require more auditors than we now have around all the risky sectors in, for example, international companies. In short, can you really do it abroad? That is not the case by my standards. At the same time, it has led to the fact that it must be feasible with a slightly hybrid system. That does not have to be a disadvantage, but in doing so, we must choose a viable form for each asset title. We must opt for automatic data delivery, we must set up the systems accordingly. Again, that's only good if we work on that as well. The pre-filled declaration (VIA) is a fantastic project, but it does not automatically go this way. This will therefore require a project. The starting point for the cabinet remains to get as close as possible to the individually realised returns. This is important for the support base, not only in the Chamber but also in the taxpayer's hands. That means we're gonna work on that. Some optimism is in order, because we have seen the electronics progress very quickly. Some caution is also in order, because this really has to be done with chain partners and I still encounter a complicated thing every week that I am working on this. My intention, therefore, is to ensure that this draft is worked on over the next three years, where possible, on preparations and on a system in which real returns can be better approached. There will be flat-rate elements in that. That also depends to a great extent on my chain partners. That is the proposal I am making now, an intermediate station, but an important intermediate station. It is an intermediate station with which the actual return is actually closer, not for everyone individually but on average. On average, it gets better. On average, it even gets considerably better. But not everyone is average. I'm not average either. I'm gonna pay for it. With my savings, because I can't do anything. The system also adapts to the efficiency development. That's new. As returns on financial markets fall, payments fall. And vice versa. Let's just say it out loud here. If everyone is going to make more returns on their savings, then we are going to pay more taxes on that too. We're following the market. If it's feasible, I've been asked by several people. It looks complicated with all those formulas, but the computer doesn't have such a problem with formulas. What is important is that it is a system that is still completely flat-rate at the moment and that is executed with numbers that we all already have. All that changes is that an employee has to update the numbers for the Tax Plan every year. That's what we have to do. The second thing we have to do is teach the computer that it has to do a certain sum. But that computer doesn't have a problem with that. This is perfectly feasible for the Tax Administration. It does not become substantially more complicated for the Tax Administration. That's worth a lot to me. The one who pointed this out is Mrs Schouten, who even blamed me for some fanaticism. However, I am very happy to say that. That means I'd like to talk to the Chamber about that proposal. That will not be today, because the written input must have been delivered on Wednesday. I expect a lot of that. I think it's good to talk about that. All Members have also indicated that they are in favour of this. That's what I like to do. That is not what the big questions have been asked about. So that's what we're gonna do with each other. That is also what we are going to talk about in the legislative consultation. This was the substantive piece of box 3. I couldn't go any faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u203	We're not disgruntled. Mr Merkies has had ten minutes to think about his question. We're all curious. Go ahead, this is your chance, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u204	I thought it was a long and interesting lecture on the taxation of assets. So first of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for the fact that he has studied this issue so well. It also indicates that he's at least working on it. I think he might have been able to shorten the answer a little if he had already put it in a letter in advance, especially when it comes to the different countries. He mentioned a few countries. I have a whole list of fifteen countries here, and I will not mention them all, which already had it in 1997. I would like to make the following comment. The Secretary of State said something about the situation for 2001, but we are now, of course, living in 2015. Much more is now being kept up to date and there is much more administrative possibility. So I think it's quite possible. The Secretary of State himself says that we can think about it in 2020. Then why can't he say: we are already going to work on it and tax the real returns in 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u205	I don't think there's anyone in the building where I work who believes it's possible right now. I have seen what the Tax Administration has had to do in recent years and with what ease we have tried to complete ICT projects in too short a time. I do not think Mr Merkies believes that we will fix this in two years. I don't think he really believes this. I agree with him, however, that he said at the beginning of his speech that we should start now, because otherwise it will not happen. If we don't start now, it's not gonna happen by itself. So the plan is to do that. Next year, we could have this discussion again when dealing with the Tax Plan, but I guarantee you that it will not be possible to do so. I also guarantee you that we will know more. If you would like to have another reading, we will plan it in a year's time. This really needs to be done responsibly. We are not going to start an ICT project with the Tax Administration that is doomed to fail, and we are not going to come up with new avoidance structures. But we're gonna do something, because the support for box 3 is under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u206	I have a background in ICT myself, because I have worked in ICT for a long time. So I fully understand that there are indeed long stages of implementation. The question then is whether you should also postpone the decision. You could say: we make the decision that we are going to tax the actual return. Then we can start that very long ICT pathway. The Secretary of State can then give an estimated date when that can start, depending on how well the ICT project is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u207	Now I count Mr Merkies as my "tribe" and I find that extremely charming. As an ICT user, he now thinks that the whole process is made up of ICT. When I studied in Delft, I also thought for a while the whole world was made up of gears. But there's a huge trajectory ahead of it. I refer to the design of these taxes. You're wronging the Coordination Group on Construction Control. It takes a long time to make sure that we can talk about normal tax revenues here and not about evasion. I know you're going to ask me or my successor to reduce the tax gap. Then you're the most right. In fact, Mr Merkies has already asked me. The tax gap should be smaller; we both think so. Then we are not going to make it bigger; we are not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u208	Thank you for the clear introduction of half an hour. I could not have made a clearer statement in order to get the central point confirmed by the government itself. This doesn't belong in the Tax Plan. If you need half an hour to explain why you're doing it, if it doesn't start in 2016, if it doesn't have a intended budgetary return, why should it be in the Tax Plan now and can't it be in a separate law, except that I care about half an hour's sleep today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u209	I do not want to keep Mr Omtzigt out of his sleep, but the bill we are now discussing is a non-existent system. Hopefully it'll be there in three years. In between, we'll talk about that once in a while. The legislative proposal that we will discuss with each other in the legislative consultation is a completely different one. That is the intermediate station and an essential step towards getting closer to the real rate of return. It is a ready-made bill that we have worked out and in which every detail can be found. There is also an extensive explanatory statement. The cabinet believes that the proposal belongs in the Tax Plan and fits in with the overall package, which reduces the burden, improves the workforce and increases the burden of capital. I would like to talk about the content of the legislative consultation, but that is a different story than the adventure I am discussing here and I have to work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u210	I don't hear an answer to the core question. The cabinet has not responded to the response of the Council of State which clearly indicates that this is not part of the Tax Plan. There is no intended yield and there is no intended starting date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u211	Well, there's a target entry date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u212	The Secretary of State indicated that that date of entry is 1 January 2016, as is the case for the rest of the Tax Plan. This year, the cabinet submitted six tax legislative proposals, including the tax plan other tax measures, the Article 2 Fund, the Parent-Subsidiary Directive and the implementation of the Common Reporting Standard. It's no trouble to take it out. According to the Council of State, it doesn't belong here. Is the Cabinet prepared to deal with it separately? Then we can take these classes and see how we're gonna treat it. Is the Cabinet prepared to tell us why it is not even responding to the Council of State? My group would like it to be removed from the Tax Plan and dealt with as a separate legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u213	That's two questions. Mr Omtzigt's first question is understandable: why should it be in the 2016 Tax Plan when it only starts in 2017? This is because during 2016 the Tax Administration needs to have certainty about the capital efficiency tax in 2017 because it has to be incorporated into the systems. During the calendar year 2016, the Tax Administration should take this into account and count on it. So the IRS needs time to do that. The formula is easy to do by the computers, but the computers still need to be set up. That would amount to a few weeks of programming work, which is tight for something that 3.5 million Dutch people are charged with. It now needs to be included in the Tax Plan in order to start in 2017. I have also explained why we believe that it belongs in this proposal: it is one package. I understand that Mr Omtzigt disagrees with that. What is at issue now is a discussion on the content. He's gonna make his contribution next Wednesday. He will receive an answer and we will then discuss the proposal further in the legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u214	That wasn't an answer. The question was not why it should be submitted a little earlier and not at the last minute. The question was why it couldn't be in a separate bill. Indeed, that bill needs to be dealt with in advance; it is complicated enough for that. But there is also an understanding of that. However, the cabinet deliberately chooses to put together a whole package and put in things that people do and do not want, while according to the Council of State there is "no substantive link." Now a rubber band is designed to hold it together with a lot of pain and effort. Isn't the Cabinet prepared to treat this as a separate bill? That is the CDA's specific question. We will then deal with it immediately; that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u215	It's gonna be a repeat of moves. I know Mr Omtzigt's point of view; he is quite clear about that. In the cabinet's view, it belongs together. What is at issue now is a discussion on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u216	My conclusion is that the Secretary of State would be an asset if he taught tax law at a university. A lot of students will be happy to follow that. But my question is this. Isn't it useful if there's a clearer view of when such a system will come? I also understand that the Secretary of State is currently unable to say exactly when it will enter and what it will look like with such a capital efficiency levy. Because it is still a very long time and it is not yet clear, there is still a lot of information to come. It is much more profitable to rig circumvention structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u217	To rig up auction constructions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u218	Evasive action!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u219	Oh, avoidance constructions. I don't understand the thesis. Mr Dijkgraaf wants things to go faster, otherwise circumvention structures will be rigged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u220	For example, a construction to avoid the high rate above the million is in an e.g. stopping of power. By doing so, you can avoid about three-quarters of the planned capital waiver. Of course, that costs money, because you have to rig it up. The profitability depends on the duration of the construction. If that's only two or three years, few people will. If it's expected to last five, six, seven years, you'll get a lot more constructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u221	The existence of structures within box 3 and structures between box 2 and box 3, which we are talking about, has nothing to do with this design of box 3. If you load the actual return, those constructions are also possible. However, there is a mysterious phrase in the explanatory statement. It says that we are going to be monitoring all kinds of evasion. I'm still trying to stay somewhat mysterious by saying that this is about all kinds of evasion. The aforementioned group of defenders of fair taxes, the Coordination Group on Construction Control, is working on this. Should there be any possibility of preventing constructions during this year, we will take initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u222	Does the Secretary of State not agree with me that the view of the system, and in particular its timing, is very useful to make temporary constructions more difficult and less difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u223	The type of construction referred to by Mr Dijkgraaf is independent of the step from the current system to the intermediate system but also from the step from the intermediate system to the final system. That doesn't have a big influence. Apart from that, it is useful to pay very close attention to all kinds of circumvention structures. Mr Dijkgraaf will agree with me. That's exactly what we're doing. The date doesn't help. I would like to accept some haste and urge from the Chamber, but I do not want to commit myself to an uncertain adventure that depends a lot on a date. I certainly don't want to put it in the law right now, when I don't even know what it's gonna be like. I like to come back to this once in a while. My proposal would be: next year same place same time. That seems useful to me. Then there is progress. The need to report always causes some haste, and we all agree with that. That would be my proposal. With a date now, you're asking me over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u224	I don't know about the tax teachership we were talking about just now. The Secretary of State shopes selectively. I'll show you why. He's got two good points. The first is that the tax authorities cannot enter this with a snap of their fingers. The second is that the whole box 3 story belongs to the Tax Plan and that we can just deal with it. On this point, I disagree with Mr Omtzigt. The selective shopping is about the list of foreign people. I heard the story about the Capital Gains Tax in the United Kingdom. If you take out the £10,000 exemption, all the objections the Secretary of State raised against the British system will be removed. The only thing left is this silly case law, but we have it in the Netherlands. I only mention the case law on VAT on rabbit feed versus VAT on guinea pig feed. What is the problem of shopping in the neighbouring countries in a positive way? We can get the good stuff out. This means that we are looking at the possibilities rather than the impossibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u225	I fully agree with the latter. Shopping abroad for good examples seems to me to be excellent. A capital gain tax à la UK is not one of the beckoning examples. If you pick up the exemption there, you'll get a lot more complicated customers with shoeboxes. The Dutch taxpayer no longer wants to be sentenced to the shoe box, but we also do not want to condemn the Tax Administration to the shoe box. I hope that Mr Van Vliet will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u226	Totally. I don't want those shoeboxes! For example, you can use a spreadsheet for the pre-filled declaration in which the values of the purchased investments must be stated. I think that will eventually be easier than the AB holders in box 2. If you now take a kind of half-soft decision and take a course that has not been completed in one or two years, but perhaps in three years' time, and if there will be another cabinet after the elections with a different political reality, is the Secretary of State not afraid that perhaps we will all end up on the way back again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u227	This cabinet has never made a semi-soft decision. I'm hearing about this! How can Mr Van Vliet say this! I don't know. It's part of this profession. If the voter indicates that he definitely wants very different things and if the electoral item were to be that we should retain a flat-rate tax in box 3, then I think it would be appropriate for the next government to do the same, but I do not know if that will be the big issue. For the time being, I believe that we have often demonstrated that we can complete a course of action in a serious way, including over cabinet periods. I think this wish is alive and well. As far as it can be retrieved, we need to get what's in it. We're going to the block of breadwinners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u228	But first Mr Omtzig is still in the rematch!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u229	That's right. At the end of his speech during the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister stated that it was not intended to discuss the content here. I have not yet heard any valid argument from this government as to why it should, except that it believes it belongs in it. This is a reform that is due to start in 2017, which is also a transitional reform and which does not have any intended budgetary return. There are already six separate tax proposals. Then why did this reform become part of the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u230	I don't know if we're going to agree on this. Mr Omtzigt is completely consistent, but unfortunately I have to be. I would like to talk to him about the content and I look forward to it. From the general political considerations, but also from the casual remarks made yesterday by Mr Omtzigt, I understand that he has looked at this in depth. He also has all kinds of suggestions in store. I am very much in favour of this and I am very much in favour of it, but I do not know whether we will agree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u231	It is a bit of a weakness to answer the question of what the arguments are, first of all, that we do not agree on them. I am simply asking what the decisive argument is for six different legislative proposals to be submitted, but to be included in the Tax Plan. The bill on Article 2 exemptions is flimsy and equally complicated, much less complicated than the box 3 measure. It should simply start on 1 January 2016. However, a separate legislative proposal was chosen, while it could have been fine in the Tax Plan. However, this is so big that it takes half an hour to explain it, but it is put in the Tax Plan to make it a sort of package, to make sure that the VVD still swallows it and can't say afterwards that it was for or against. The Council of State's opinion is not even answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u232	I didn't devote half an hour ago to this system. I think I've devoted two out of 30 minutes to this system. However, that is not Mr Omtzigt's real point. I keep saying that I take note of his views. He has all kinds of support for this, but all I can say is that it belongs together and that it has to be one package. That is how we submitted it. That is the answer to Mr Omtzigt, and also to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u233	We're going to the breadwinners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u234	The breadwinners. There are three parties who have raised the issue of the breadwinner. I think that Mr Dijkgraaf has done the most extensive exposition on this subject. He has even done election research for all parties, for which I have great respect. That was an argument to which I listened with great interest! Lifeform neutrality, what is at stake, is, of course, also a political choice. We saw yesterday that life-form neutrality in two variants is about the tongue. You can choose it all yourself, but is it life-form neutral now when the redistribution of tasks within the family develops fiscally neutrally that is one type of........................................................................................................................................................................................ or.................................. or.... or or or or....... or. or. or... The concept of "lifeform neutrality" falls at least into these two categories in this Chamber. The tax system in the Netherlands relies more on one than on the other. It's largely individual and it's progressive. This means that a household in which both individuals work pays less tax than a household in which the same gross income is earned by one person. These are Mr Dijkgraaf's statistics. In addition, there are specific schemes aimed at two-earners with children, such as the IACK. They make it worse in the eyes of Mr Dijkgraaf. Moreover, this scheme makes it easier for parents with young children to accept paid employment. In itself, the fact that people could both work with children in recent times has led to a huge employment rate, prosperity leap and development. The cabinet and I think that is very positive. Mr Dijkgraaf did not deny that either. Anyway, the burden on labour is reduced for everyone. Because "two-earners" means that two people work, they are making more progress, but the purchasing power development of breadwinners is also beneficial, although it is more similar to that of single people. Mr Dijkgraaf's figures are correct. He does mention an extreme case, because if you take a case that pays very little tax compared to someone else, it will soon be very different from the case of someone else. There aren't that many of those cases either. What else he's doing is legitimate. I respect his sums. If he had included the supplements, pension contributions and own costs, i.e. the net own costs of childcare, the difference would be reduced. Are the figures on average as extreme as Mr Dijkgraaf says? I don't think so. This year's average tax burden on wage-earners is 24.7% versus 21.6% for two-earners. Yeah, there's a difference, but that doesn't look like that factor five. The examples mentioned by Mr Dijkgraaf do exist and are therefore valid, but on average it is 24.7% versus 21.6%. Both tax pressures are falling in the coming year. It was chosen because we chose jobs. At this time, that's not a weird choice. At the same time, balanced income relationships are also simply equivalent in the coalition agreement. Therefore, the cabinet increases the child-related budget from the second child. That amount is in the SZW budget. This measure aims to improve the position of householders with children. This is in line with previous requests from the SGP. This will be discussed during the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs and Employment. It seems to me that the SGP has even been mentioned in particular. In other words, this is the choice that has been made. At the same time, Mr Dijkgraaf's wish is very serious, as is Mrs Schouten and Mr Omtzigt. Let's talk about that in the run-up to the Tax Plan. There are still plenty of possibilities, not only in the written round, but also in the legislative consultation process. I cannot promise major repairs here, but of course we are open to targeted suggestions. There is also time to bring it into the debate. That is my response to the concerns raised by three parties yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u235	Was that your block of breadwinners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u236	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u237	Frankly, there is a great temptation to discuss everything the Secretary of State has said. However, I also see the President looking at time. I can go along with the Secretary of State's proposal to discuss this in the forthcoming discussions. Written, oral, legislative consultation, Tax Plan and Plenary, we still have a lot of opportunities to delete each other's thoughts on this. I do have a general point. The Secretary of State says it's an extreme case. That's right when you're talking about that factor five. That is an extreme case: €40,000 on one side and two times €20,000 on the other. However, the Secretary of State has also seen the table I have distributed in which it leads to a great difference over a much wider range, ranging from €8,000 to €10,000. However, I see it as a commitment from the Secretary of State that he is open to discussions on this matter and also to possible solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u238	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u240	Mr Omtzig is still on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u241	I too would not like to have the technical discussion at 10 a.m. this evening. However, I did have a question, in the first place, namely whether the government is prepared to ask the CPB to look at these two examples. The questions to the Millions note came from the SGP and we asked two of them to the Cordelia, where we compared a single parent with a breadwinner. A breadwinner who earns a morale and has to support two adults and two children, is left net as much as a single parent who earns the minimum wage. There's quite a discrepancy in that. We ask you to take a good look at whether the tax system still has sufficient capacity. Is the government prepared to give that order to the CPB and say something about it for the WHO Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u242	I remember the question. I have to say, I don't have an answer to that right now. It must be something that is feasible and somehow useful. I always have sympathy for people who want more information for their role in parliament. Can I come back to this in another term? I believe that I now have the question sharper than in the first term. I just failed to have an answer to it. I need to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u243	Yes. We're going to the greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u244	Yeah, the greening. Mr Merkies, like Mr Koolmees on his own and Mrs Schouten on hers, has asked whether the cabinet is prepared to do further greening. I think that's how I can interpret the question. Mr Merkies was a bit ahead of me in the answer. He said to my predecessor: yes, yes, and then the cabinet will tell us that we are already doing so much. I was indeed going to say that we are in third place in the OECD in terms of environmental taxes, that we have higher rates and fewer exemptions than in other countries, and that we also see energy tax rates going up by 50% through the SDE+ in the years to come. However, I will keep that to myself. I will say that I have already done so in previous instances; that is a repetition in that sense and it is also a bit of a repeat of before the summer season that I am, as we know, always willing to talk about options for fiscal greening. Moreover, the non-fiscal domain may also be considered. It is desirable, however, that it should not be at the expense of employment. In Mr Koolmees's version, it must create jobs. It must also fit in with the simplification objectives that we have, because we are not going to burden the Tax Administration with anything weird. I would like to say that it is also useful here to keep a closer eye on the basis of our support. I assume, however, that the initiators have thought about this. In particular, Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks raised the question of whether it could be useful to strike a more balanced balance between gas and electricity. I suppose he's actually talking about small consumers. This is useful because, of course, we see that the heat pump has led to a possible and highly efficient process of heating homes. That thing runs on electricity and doesn't create heat, it just moves that heat. All in all, however, in many cases it is actually a smarter thing in an energetic way. That's what's being disturbed by this imbalance right now. I think I understand Mr Grashoff's wish. At the same time, I believe that the answer to the previous question fits in here, but I would like to mention this initiative separately. There is, of course, the willingness to discuss it, but the conditions of implementation do apply. And there must also be a broader enthusiasm for this. Mr Grashoff also asks whether we can even better support the decentralised generation of renewable energy through the postcode rose. To be honest, that question surprised me more. It seems that the Chamber before I came here has already built up a long history with talks about the postcode rose. In the meantime, I have had this long history, because the Energy Committee has worked hard on this and it has managed to get the cabinet to propose in this Tax Plan to increase the discount that cooperatives and vves can get from 7.5 cents per kWh to 9 cents per kWh. This has been done explicitly because those involved believe that the postcode rose will then be a success. The postcode rose has not been successful so far. It may also be that it is not a success because it competes with the SDE+, in which such energy projects can also be financed. However, the chairman of the Committee on Safeguards himself believes that this adjustment could possibly bring us up to 200 new projects. Because they are postcode rose projects, they are automatically also slightly larger projects. I therefore propose that we look at whether we can do it in a favourable way with this adjustment. Let's not start turning buttons again before the system has entered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u245	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers on the imbalance between gas and electricity. He can now, of course, wait for initiatives, but is he also prepared to take an active part in providing the Chamber with, for example, a number of options for restoring that balance? That could help us in the process towards the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u246	Now let's not let the initiative go from the Chamber to the government in one second. Let's do it exactly as I suggested. So let's just talk about this and check out the possibilities and the possibilities. I am, of course, always prepared to make the knowledge of the department available to the members of the Chamber for any proposals. Of course, I keep saying it, it is necessary to bring with it the support. So let's do it that way. I believe that there is a whole parliamentary history in which proposals have been made in this way. Can Mr Grashoff live with that? I can see him having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u247	Yeah, I'm also kind of figuring out how you could go through such a process as efficiently as possible in a couple of weeks. Anyway, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u248	We're gonna find something on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u249	The Secretary of State has not yet addressed the energy tax for large consumers. I believe that in the documents that never really led to a conversation, so in those famous pre-summer packages, there has sometimes been an idea, among other things, to perhaps make the energy tax less regressive. We then hoped that there would be something about the energy tax for large consumers. I would like the Secretary of State to take that up. With regard to the postcode rose, the Secretary of State is right to point out that there has recently been a change in the remuneration. We've noticed that too and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u250	It's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u251	Yeah, "go." I mean, in decision-making. This does not alter the fact that the system as such is perceived as extremely rigid. In the middle of the rose you may do something, but if you would like to exploit a windmill on the edge of the urban area in a collective, it is not because you are not in the middle but on the edge. It's a bit of a lame system, which could be flexibilised quite easily. I wonder if we can't talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u252	The construction of the postcode rose has gone extensively over the table. I think we should wait for the evaluation. I've understood this, but maybe it's completely wrong and when I see that no is nodded, I immediately stop talking about how the postcode rose will be evaluated in 2016. Then we need to see if and how this thing can do better. But to start kicking the brakes again just before the evaluation... We have raised the rate, so one last spurt to make it a success, I would say. The bail-out committee is thinking of 200 projects. Mr Grashoff and I are eagerly looking forward to these 200 projects and at the same time to the evaluation. I think we might have the same ideas about the complexity of the postcode rose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u253	Fine, then we'll go to the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u254	No, there was another question about the big consumers. In general, what I said earlier is true. I'm in favour of proposals. I don't embrace it right away, but I'm not gonna shut the doors either. In the coming period, until treatment, ideas will find an open door. In the end, the House must agree. It should only be possible here, so it should be budgetaryly sound and feasible and preferably not cost employment. D66 asked in many ways, perhaps not to respond to the counter-budget in which I recognized a lot of elements from before the summer the proposals were not entirely new in this theatre but whether there is room to talk about further revision. Inventing sensible measures is one thing, and gaining support behind the scenes is still quite a fuss, but achieving majorities in this Chamber and in the Chamber on the contrary is the great challenge. We all remember that. Of course there's things to talk about. With regard to the D66 proposal itself, I would like to refer to my general practitioner, who said: never take medicines without a package leaflet. The package leaflet for the D66 programme in terms of purchasing power plates is still missing. On the fist, several experts in my neighbourhood estimate that the counter-budget of D66 is roughly set at -0.5, but that is not a hard number. Again, the package leaflet was still missing. When acquiring support, D66 may need to include the package leaflet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u255	I'd be happy to. Who's going backwards in our plans? The high-income people without children under 12 years old are high from about €60,000 and indeed the non-employed, especially the elderly with an income above €33,000. They're getting worse in our plans. It doesn't go backwards for those entitled to benefits. A lot of people working in this sector, I have a lot of examples of families here, because the reduction in working time is being increased, as is the reduction in child care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u256	Then that has been clarified and noted. The next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u257	We will move on to the next topic. I would like to add that a subject which I do not think was included in the document, but was mentioned separately by Mr Koolmees, concerns the balance in tax treatment between equity and debt. That's the same thing. This is, of course, the subject of the BEPS project. Whether that should be the reason to run very fast for that now, I don't know. I think that this also applies to the fact that concrete ideas are always viewed first and foremost by everyone in this Chamber. Of course, before the summer, the cabinet saw opportunities to bring about greater equality in this respect, as has happened in some neighbouring countries. That would have resulted in a lower Vpb rate. There should therefore be an eye for a good locational climate, but I think that Mr Koolmees is all convinced of that. Both Mr Koolmees and Mr Van Vliet have said that they want to do something about 'pumping the healthcare allowance'. Mr Koolmees suggested halving the premium in exchange for a direct financing of insurers. Mr Van Vliet threw it over another bow. He advocated the abolition of the care allowance, in conjunction with the application of lubricating oil. Those things have been watched, too. There is a very high risk of halving the premiums. There will then be a very serious legal complication. This means that care is directly funded to an even greater extent than is currently the case. It is very likely that there will be a conflict with the European State aid framework. That's a serious assessment. It is an obstacle not to be muffled under the tablecloth. That is why we have not dared to do it so far. It seems to be a real risk and once the healthcare system is on the downhill side, it also goes downhill quickly. I'm very afraid of that. The solution of Mr Van Vliet, purchasing, gave very strong income effects, also in combination with the lubricating oil. This shows, however, that it is complicated to compensate, in an individual scheme, for household effects in excess of that amount. The income figures made of them did not look happy, I say to Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u258	I understand the arguments regarding the State aid framework and the private nature of the system. Does this mean, however, that the Secretary of State has given up a simplification of the care allowance, the phasing out of the money-pumping process, or is there still any work being done on variants to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u259	I'm mostly working on the Tax Plan right now. Of course, it cannot be that a country is unthinkable without a care allowance. We don't believe that either. However, we have made calculations of this before the summer. It emerged from this that one variant was bad because of the purchasing power effects and the other because of legal aspects. At some point, then, we need to think through how that goes. Irrevocable it will have to go as part of a larger movement, because if you keep things small, the frictions are large and when you make things bigger, the frictions are more soluble. As the person responsible for the execution, I would very much like to get rid of these surcharges. So I am very sympathetic to this question, but I do not have the solution yet. Mr Grashoff asked 'the Volkswagen question'. I think he has now received answers to his questions by the letter sent by the Secretary of State of I and M here yesterday, I believe, together with answers to parliamentary questions. The essence of this is that the fraud detected is about NO nitrogen oxide, while the subsidies in the Netherlands were mainly about CO or consumption. That is, of course, directly proportional. NOen CO have no direct connection and if there is a connection, it is the other way around. The letter states that this would probably not have a direct impact on undue subsidies granted by the Dutch government. However, the European Commission has announced a wider investigation. We'll just wait and see what comes out of it. I do not know how broad that research is, but if it is also about this type of practice in terms of consumption, then we need to take a good look at it and see how we proceed with it. Mr Omtzigt raised two questions on coal taxation. I understand that his reasoning is that in the energy agreement it was agreed that coal plants would disappear and that in return the coal tax would disappear. He is now faced with a plan to abolish the coal tax, but can he now assume that the power stations will disappear? That is an extremely good question. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment and the Minister for Economic Affairs are working on a response to the opinion of the Council of State on the amendment of the Act of Activities, which should eventually eliminate these coal power stations. They will make that reaction and that advice public as soon as possible. It is expected that this will be before the votes. Mr Omtzig referred to the question whether these possible tax expenditures would be examined for their effectiveness. Coal tax and biomass subsidies are not, by definition, tax expenditure. There is an ibo CO and that research may also be about the cost-efficiency of these measures, I understand. I'm not going over it, and the whole cabinet isn't about it, because it's an independent investigation. If the ibo comes up with such measures, we can read that in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u260	We're gonna wait for that last one. That first one doesn't comfort me so much. The Council of State delivered its opinion on 21 August 2015. Those two things are intertwined, as the Secretary of State rightly says. I understand that it will not be sent to the Chamber tonight, but I would very much appreciate it if it would be in the Chamber for the first WHO, because those two things belong together. The cabinet then had more than two months to respond to an opinion from the Council of State. That seems to me to be a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u261	I'm not going over this, so I can't commit to this either. I'm doing it on a detour, because I understand that request so well, because those two things are linked together. I undertake to approach my two colleagues in order to convey this message. I'd like to offer that, even if it's a little circumstantial. I don't know if I'm out of order right now. Mr Omtzigt also asked about the auntagath scheme. This arrangement is no longer, as we all know, because it was ineffective and wasteful. Maybe something like that will come back for it. There's 50 million for it. That is not in the EZ budget, but it is reserved somewhere on the revenue side. This is worked out in a scheme that should not be wasteful and effective to stimulate start-ups. If it comes into the budget, we will have a discussion with the Chamber about what it will look like. Mr Omtzigt also asked a question yesterday about the Simmons and Simmons reports. I had already learned that there were MPs who wanted that report. Strictly speaking, I can't give you that. It is 'unusual', as it is called, but that actually means 'forbidden', to make such documents available to third parties. The committee is about, and so on, and so on. That litany of arguments can be imagined very well. I've been arguing with a lot of people lately, based on the view that it's better to send it than it's lying around somewhere. Because I'm not in charge and because I'm not supposed to, I've decided to send that confidentially to the Chamber. I was about to report it now, but now it's on a website. I don't know if that's because people got angry or got wind of it, or that I'm just late, but I'm gonna let that go. I will see to it that Mr Omtzigt finds out where it stands. So now we have that information. I thank him for his question, because I actually agreed with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u262	Thank you. I hope it will also be officially sent to us, including the annexes and the follow-up in 2009. Both were provided by the Commission. For the record: we had this discussion with the Commissioner, Mr Moscovici. He just said that the Member States made it impossible. So it was a game of pointing at each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u263	Well, we're done with that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u264	I'll ask the Secretary of State to make it public. Then we can continue in the discussion at the CCCTB or the CCCB or anywhere else. I like it when it's officially given to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u265	This would mean that I still honour the original commitment. However, I will send it to the Chamber as a confidential document, not as a public document, because we believe that we are not dealing with this. We are already talking about the rules here, but because it is on the Internet, we are not going to be difficult about it either. I'll send it to the Chamber as a confidential piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u266	Is the Secretary of State finishing up yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u267	He's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u268	He's done. Congratulations on that. When I add up all the speakers' speaking time in the second term, I come to a pure playing time of just over an hour. So that's excluding interruptions or whatever. You know that the second term is not mandatory. You also have the opportunity to make yourself infinitely popular with your political group secretary by keeping quite a few minutes, because you can simply take them with you to the other budget treatments. So here is a golden opportunity to make you popular within your group. Before we begin the second term, there is another question from Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u269	I did not receive an answer to a question I asked about the CPB report that came out last Friday. Is the Secretary of State prepared to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u270	Mrs Schouten asked about the CPB study. It lists all kinds of power. It's actually a metastudy. As far as I can assess it, previous studies are put in parallel. There are some big strokes going through the matter. Nevertheless, it is to be welcomed that there is a good scientific study on systems and the different ways in which they can be handled. That policy letter, because that's what it is, contributes to this. I think we can establish that it's not one-two-three all implementable. There's no clear direction either. There are some burdens being discussed. The own house and pension will of course be discussed extensively. It is no secret that the cabinet has already taken a number of firm steps in this regard. According to the CPB, the dividend rate and the box 2 tariff should be reduced. People try to reconcile things. In the press it seemed as if the CPB had said that the levy in box 3 on actual return is now feasible. I was confronted with that, but it doesn't say that. I have great faith in the CPB. That doesn't make any sense. So it's not there either. At this stage, I see it as a piece that makes a good contribution to the discussion. It does not contain any ready-made proposals that we can introduce in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u271	Mrs. Schouten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u272	Mr President, this is about my first interruption this evening. I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u273	But if you start at half-elf, then... go ahead. We're gonna listen to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u274	The bigger question is, of course, whether this cabinet still has the ambition to take steps in the tax reform wherever possible. That's the underlying question. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether or not he wants to continue thinking about improvements in the tax system, on the basis of what the CPB is throwing at him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u275	The answer is the same as Mr Koolmees' question. I have replied that we are always open to business, but that there must be support for it. I have also indicated that the analyses from the CPB's policy letter are not proposals that you can put into a plan to carry them through. They are considerations, pros and contras, but they are not measures that can be implemented in this way. For that, they must be very much more thought-out. For example, there are before the Vpb reflections that would turn about our entire system upside down. Well, that might be helpful, but it's not a little thing you can do for a while. I see it as a contribution to the scientific debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u276	That's always good. I will respond to the President's challenge. Since all my questions have been answered and we will continue to discuss the commitments, I thank the rulers for their answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u277	See, that's what more should do. I expected everyone to come forward now to shout "hallelujah, I've seen the light," but that is not the case. I call Mr Merkies. He has five minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u278	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their comprehensive reply. It has been agreed in Europe that 1 billion will be added for the reception of refugees in the region. If other countries are also going to designate earmarked money as the money they are spending to achieve that amount of 1 billion, I wonder what progress has been made with this. I'll file three motions. The first one is about box 3. The Secretary of State has made a long speech. Can he give an overview of how it has been done in the various countries? We can, of course, ask that in the written round, but I think it would be helpful if he sent us an overview of how things are going in those other countries by letter. Why does he not already take the decision in principle to work towards taxing the real return? I fully understand that the Tax Administration will take a while to do so. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a broad shared wish in the Chamber for taxing the real return;]] [[noting that box 3 is based on a fictitious return;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the measures to be taken by the Tax Administration in order to implement a capital gain tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u279	An important part of the debate was on Security and Justice. There are just a lot of gaps in that budget. It is important that we do not continue to put things ahead of us and wait until we can only move between the deficit posts on Security and Justice. Before then, it must be clear that there will be money. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the criminal justice chain is under serious pressure and that at least EUR 200 million is needed to ensure that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Dutch Forensic Institute and the judiciary can continue to deliver the desirable social performance;]] [[calls on the Government to release EUR 200 million for the budget of Security and Justice and to send proposals to the Chamber for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u280	If the Minister of Finance, halfway with his PvdA cap, says he wants to abolish the household allowance, he must also deliver butter to the fish, otherwise he leaves many elderly people in uncertainty. I think this feeling is widely worn in the Chamber. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Finance stated that the household allowance in the AOW did not apply;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet speaks with one voice;]] [[noting that the household allowance in the AOW is introduced as of 2018 according to the current cabinet plans;]] [[calls on the Government to remove definitively the introduction of the household allowance in the AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Merkies, Omtzigt, Koolmees, Grashoff, Schouten, Dijkgraaf, Thieme and Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u281	Finally, I would like to ask whether the Minister, with or without his PvdA cap, can give a positive opinion to his own party and the PvdA group here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u282	It's all on the brink of state law, but it's so late that we don't make a point about it anymore. You can make your group secretary happy with one minute that is unused. We are going to listen to Mr Harbers from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u283	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers and, in particular, the Secretary of State for the detailed discourse, which shows all his passion for actually working on taxing the real return and, above all, starting now, so that it can be done in a few years' time. That's what I asked for yesterday. We don't have to wait for that evaluation after three years. The steps can simply be put into effect so that we can achieve them as quickly as possible. The Minister also said this evening about the budget: we have been able to accommodate all our wishes and there was also room for this 5 billion tax reduction. I told you yesterday: it's a little miracle if you see what years we're coming from. I think it is a very nice budget, in which it all worked out so well and at the same time keeps the Minister's hand on the cut and does not let all the expenditure go up and honour all the wishes for it. I'd like to reflect on the first term. I have heard many times: now there is a tax cut and that is a gift. I don't think anything less is true. We've had some very difficult years. We have been behind us for years in which there is also a lot of demand from Dutch people, in which taxes had to be increased from time to time. At the moment when the government no longer needs that 5 billion in the next year, I think it is only right to say to people: you are just getting that tax cut. We don't keep the money here in The Hague. It goes back into the citizen's wallet, because in recent years it has also been often plagued by extra take-outs from his wallet. Let me put it this way. So it's not a present at all. It's just necessary after these years. Some answers have really been taken from my heart. First of all, I would like to mention the answer to the poverty trap. The table on p. We had already noticed 151 of the budget. The Minister can rest assured. My colleagues will go much further in the budgetary debate on SZW. It was indeed an incentive to continue to look at this problem of poverty drop. A good step has now been taken, but we must also keep that on the retina for the years to come. I would also mention the Minister's commitment to report the behavioural effects of the budgetary rules to the study group. That is the only element still missing from the Minister's response to the Court's report. That's really good. In any case, that means that the preparatory work can also be done next year, so that at the next formation in 2017 it is clear what the budgetary rules should be. We are eagerly looking forward to the pension system programme. There are very fundamental choices, for example to waive the average premium. That's appropriate to this time of year. I also said something about it in the first place. That will not even be easy, but it is necessary. We look forward to the initiatives of the cabinet. There was another answer I hadn't even asked for myself. That is what we would be talking about in the budget debate of V and J. That was about that business case with the FIOD to see how you can further take away the ability of drug criminals and also see if you can finance that project from it. I believe that Mr Merkies had asked for it, but this also lives hugely in my group. So I think it is wonderful that this initiative is now being launched and that we should consider how we can extend it as soon as possible if it is actually calculating itself. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u284	Just to clarify, the FIOD is also good, but this was about the financial investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u285	That's right. I was a little crazy, but I think it was clear that we're just gonna see how you can take more money from drug criminals. That's what the FIOD, the tax detectives and so on have to do with it. I know that the Minister does not like proposals that are said to be self-deserving, but they may be. Then it's very good to take a good look at that. Finally, I shall table a motion for a resolution. I started working on the Infrastructure Fund in my first term. The Minister also addressed this issue. He announced he's working on an ibo. Then he comes with a letter. But I'm still filing a motion to keep some pressure on it. An ibo could just walk out and the planning horizon is in sight. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the horizon of the Infrastructure Fund, Delta Fund, and MIRT extends to 2028;]] [[noting that the construction of new infrastructure, from plan to opening, does not rarely take 15 years or longer;]] [[noting that the planning horizon of the current Infrastructure Fund is already in sight during this cabinet period;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands also needs infrastructure management, maintenance and construction after 2028;]] [[calls on the Government, by spring 2016, to present a vision on the continuation of the Infrastructure Fund, Delta Fund and MIRT after 2028,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers, Mr Schouten, Mr Nijboer, Mr Koolmees and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u286	Chairman. I thank the government for the answers given. They were generally good, but when they got to box 3, what the secretary of state is good at, not only according to his son, but also witnessing the college we heard, I got a bit of a feeling that I was talking to my own daughter. "Why?" "Well, that's why!" "Why?" "Well, that's why!" "So..." It didn't really figure out why this is now in the Tax Plan. I have very difficult discussions, every now and then, I can assure you. I therefore call once again on the cabinet to get it out of the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u287	Well, then I'm interested in the question again. Why does it have to come out of Mr Omtzigt now? Now explain that to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u288	Well, that's why!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u289	Because it is a separate part, which starts not on 1 January 2016, but on 1 March 2017. It has no relation whatsoever to the plans, whether in financial terms or in terms of content. There is still a lot of work to be done on the substance. The latter has been exquisitely illustrated by Secretary of State Wiebes, who, by the way, showed that he has studied this for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u290	Does Mr Omtzig not agree with me that you could also follow the same reasoning for other parts of the Tax Plan? The low income advantage will also apply in 2017, but it is included in the Tax Plan. That is not what you are talking about. So it seems like you have another argument, which you do not mention here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u291	We think differently about these things, but I think that Mr Grashoff needs to read his pieces. The low-income advantage is regulated in a separate bill. I wish you every success in reading the pieces that have been in your possession for three weeks. You could have come up with a better example. We hope to hear that there will be some extra money for the Defense Department. The government asked: what do we want with Security and Justice? That really is the biggest bottleneck, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are major financial and substantive problems in the Ministry of Security and Justice, where the current budget does not provide sufficient guarantees;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare and submit a letter of amendment to the Security and Justice budget, increasing expenditure by a total of 200 million;]] [[calls on the Government to use the intensification to resolve structural deficits in the Office, the NFI, the police, parole and justice;]] [[Invites the Government to seek cover in the immediate cessation of investments in the sector plans of the Ministry of SZW and the residual budget available for the DGGF for 2017;]] [[invites the Government to seek additional cover, if necessary, if the proposed coverage is not sufficient,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the current policy of the ECB with large buy-back programmes entails major risks;]] [[considers that savers and pensioners are ultimately at very high risk in this policy, as is the case with the Dutch State;]] [[calls on the government to actively promote the end of buy-back programmes and return to a normal monetary policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-51]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u292	Also the President of France from very good what he wants: buy more. We can say that at least we want less. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the difference in the tax burden between the earners and the two earners has increased significantly in recent years;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to examine whether the increased tax burden of a earner is still proportionate to the principle of taxation according to carrying capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the CPB to write a shortterm note on taxation and the principle of carrying capacity, in particular on the differences between the earners on the one hand and two-earners and single parents on the other, taking into account the model calculations made by the Cord and the Millions Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u293	We would like the result to be included in the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u294	Thank you. You are over speaking time, but there is another question from Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u295	Anything over the speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u296	You had four minutes. You got over that, Mr Omtzigt, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u297	Because the CDA has voted away quite a lot of laws in recent years, which caused some budgetary gaps, which were accepted, I asked Mr Omtzigt yesterday what he was going to do about them. In recent years, I have also noticed the central line of the CDA group: the burden had to be reduced because expenditure had to be reduced. Now I just saw an amendment by Mr Knops and Mr Dijkgraaf to cover the extra 200 million for Defence, which is an increase in expenditure, by increasing taxes. Has the CDA group now made such a big turn that she's running completely the other way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u298	Mr Koolmees will see that part of the coverage comes from abolishing the interest rate advantage that bankers currently enjoy in the WKR. We also had a discussion on this with the Secretary of State. They can subtract some of the things they don't receive. I want to get rid of that, so I'm gonna get it out of there. Otherwise, we don't see anything. Mr Oskam has also said on several occasions that, according to the CDA Group, the differentiation between gambling tax on the Internet and in reality is not legal and undesirable. That is what we are committed to doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u299	Does that also mean that the CDA will no longer say: 'the burden should go down, because expenditure should go down', but: we increase expenditure and we increase taxes? Is that the actual conclusion of this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u300	I have just tabled a motion which includes 350 million of cover by reducing expenditure. The DGGF is coverage, as well as non-continuing sector plans. Those are all cover measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u301	I wasn't really planning to interrupt anymore, but at this point in time too, you have to keep the CDA on sound fiscal policy. Mr Omtzigt is always keen on that and he always asks everyone about all the details and annexes. He's just covering expenses here with higher taxes. That is a budget rule that everyone in the Chamber normally adheres to, but not the CDA at the moment. Mr Omtzigt increases taxes to spend expenditure. It's not customary. I think that is a special choice. This requires further clarification. Why is the CDA here violating budgetary rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u302	There is even a shift between the three pillars, so the budgetary rules are covered in several respects throughout the budget. As far as we're concerned, you can also get 200 million from the DGGF. We have also indicated this as cover in the motion on Security and Justice. We are the only ones here who indicate where the 200 million for V and J should be covered. And yes, we consider the DOD very important right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u303	The entire Chamber is of great importance to the Defense Department, and so is the Cabinet, because it pays extra money to do so, rising to 375 million. To be precise, it's 345 million plus 60 million for missions, otherwise I'll get turned against it again. You call it DGGF, but that is a temporary cover that is not appropriate for that reason either. I understand that you did not include that in the amendment. What I don't get is this. You have been here for years calling for the burden to be reduced. The cabinet must respect the budgetary rules and be prudent, because that is what you want to assess. Then you yourself submit an amendment which is not in accordance with the budgetary rules. That doesn't fit with the CDA, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u304	I am glad that the PvdA wants to comply with the budgetary rules. I regret to note that, two weeks ago, when we proposed to abolish the benefits that bankers enjoy in their mortgage, namely to deduct €9,000 while they only have to pay €6,000, those are the words of Secretary of State Wiebes, who did not want to follow the PvdA. We want to do that, and we use that money for this. If others don't want to use that, too bad, then they leave it in the law. We'll make another choice. We also make political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u305	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the comprehensive and good answer to the questions. I have three points on the budget. I say something about the financial sector and I will conclude with a motion that I will table together with Mr Harbers. First of all, the budget for security and justice. The opposition has made many critical comments on this. My group has also raised points on this. The PvdA really wants the quality of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the courts to be preserved for next year, as promised in the budget. The promises and ambitions in the budget must be kept. I appeal to the remarks about the FIOD and the cases that the D.A. is delivering. I would point out that no one has yet been prosecuted for the fraud committed by housing corporations and the enrichment that has taken place there. That's all really urgent. There can be no further cuts in that ministry. The PvdA is well aware of the path taken by the Minister to clarify the budgetary bottlenecks. That's a decent solution. Then there are the risks of the Nederlandsche Bank and the European Central Bank and their impact on the budget. The Minister indicated that this is already stated in the annual report of the Netherlands Bank. Yeah, I'm sure you do. I'll bet you do. However, I do not think that this is a good way to report the risks to the House of Representatives. I would ask you to use the same system as for all guarantee schemes and guarantees in order to make the risks to the taxpayer clear. This concerns not only the guarantee scheme of the Nederlandsche Bank that we voted on, but all the risks that can be dealt with in, for example, the Dutch Bank's dividend policy. Those risks must be transparent for the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u306	I have heard that the PvdA Group speaks very warmly about Security and Justice, but does not table any amendment or motion, nor does it provide any cover, even though it is a co-sponsor of a motion requesting that courts be kept fully open. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u307	I have indicated that the ambitions contained in the budget regarding courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the quality of the police must be maintained. We can't let that get to you. The Chamber has asked a lot of questions about this. "Budget tension" was the key word. The Minister said that he would come up with a serious analysis and proposals to solve the problems. In that process, the PvdA's fraction goes along. Today, therefore, there are no additional amendments from the PvdA to add extra money. I don't think that's appropriate at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u308	So the PvdA Group has tabled a motion before the courts, but unlike the SP, the Christian Union and the CDA, it does not provide any money; of which it is noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u309	A very clear position has been chosen in the courts. They would close in a number of places, but we want to keep them open. Those plans are being revised and the courts are going to do the same. I believe that 6 million and more are planned for 2018 and beyond. It is not about next year's budget, which is now on the agenda. We look forward to these plans and assess them at that time, but the courts in the region are not closing down as far as the PvdA Group is concerned. Right must be close to getting people around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u310	The Court of Justice has said that we are waiting for money to be added. They are actually looking at the Chamber and the Cabinet, and therefore also at the PvdA. Does Mr Nijboer also say that there must be money to keep these courts open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u311	We said that the plans had to be put off the table and that the Minister had to look at how and if this could be done differently. That happened two weeks ago. We are giving him time to work out these plans, but the courts are not closed as far as the PvdA Group is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u312	But my question is about money. Does Mr Nijboer think that there should be money in security and justice so that, among other things, the courts can remain open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u313	There are plenty of bottlenecks. The courts are one of those bottlenecks. The Minister has just indicated in his first term that he is going to identify these bottlenecks, that he is going to find solutions to them if necessary, and that he will submit them to the Chamber. That is when we are going to assess this. Mr. Chairman. The third point on the budget is the Stability and Growth Pact. The PvdA Group was very critical of the system and in particular the structural deficit, an unworkable thing to steer the budget. The Minister has taken part in the idea that this should be done better and differently, and he is going to work on this in Europe. He says it's not that easy. That is acknowledged by the PvdA, but it is a good thing that he is prepared to do so. The PvdA strongly encourages him to make this a success, because the Dutch trendary fiscal policy, the clear transparent system we know here, deserves follow-up throughout Europe. There is still a lot to do in the financial sector. The PvdA Group will also use the next year to come forward with proposals to improve them, for example with regard to credit rating agencies and with regard to the size and complexity of the sector. The first thing to be discussed this autumn is our own initiative paper on private equity. That's what we're gonna do. The Minister has indicated that he will look into this with interest. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the warm embrace of the study group on sustainable growth. He wants to put these structuralally in place and ask for independent advice every four years to strengthen the economic structure and create jobs. He asked the Chamber for a ruling on this, to be supported in this. Of course, I'd like to file that motion. She is slightly longer than my usual motions, because I want to frame more precisely what the intention is. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the 15th Study Group on Budget Space was asked by the Minister to deliver an opinion on the budgetary system and the budgetary objective for the next cabinet period;]] [[Whereas, in addition to responsible fiscal policies, there is a mandate to sustainably strengthen employment and the Dutch earning capacity in the future;]] [[calls on the government to set up a Study Group on Sustainable Growth alongside and along the lines of the independent Study Group on Budget Space and to issue simultaneous opinions on the future employment and earning capacity of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ask this Study Group on Sustainable Growth to outline concrete policy options, which will at least address economic policy and the handling of an open economy, education, research and development, energy transition, industrial policy, the labour market, the housing market, the financial sector and the debt situation of households and businesses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u314	Mr Omtzigt is looking at it as if it were a very long motion, but if you look at Mr Omtzig's motions and their precision every now and then, then this motion is quite stark! It would be good if this study group were set up in the same way as the Budget Space Study Group, with the Ministry of Finance and the other departments, but also DNB and the CPB at the table. They must make concrete policy recommendations. Let me stress that again. There are often general analyses, while we in politics are waiting for practical policy suggestions to strengthen investment, innovation and employment in the Netherlands and to make clear choices in them. That, in my view, was also a bit the reaction of Mr Omtzigt and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u315	Was that your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u316	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u317	Good. It is 11 p.m., but this debate is about to start a second youth, because as young dogs, colleagues still report to the interrupting microphone. Why not? I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u318	I see a new study group on budgetary space emerging in all the departments and think tanks we have. I recognize them from the Cabinets-Balkenende. That's just not what the question is about. In his second term, I did not hear Mr Nijboer use the word'mantle care penalty' when we asked the Minister of Finance a great deal about this. There is a motion tabled by Mr Merkies and almost the entire opposition. Mr Nijboer may have another route in mind. Maybe he wants to wait until the Navy Note or another time. What's the method? Mr Samsom was very clear. He wanted to get rid of it, even according to the Minister of Finance. What is the PvdA Group's method of getting rid of this household allowance? Doesn't she want to get rid of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u319	The PvdA Group wants to get rid of it and has achieved a postponement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u320	If you want to get rid of something, you generally have an idea about the way and the moment you get rid of it. Apparently, this budget is not working. Is the Labour Party prepared to ensure that we simply remove the household allowance from the law before the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u321	There's always gonna be cover. Mr Omtzigt has just shown that he is not so skilled in this. The fine will not be applied next year and will not be dealt with next year. We want to adjust. In recent times, we've realized a delay. Mr Omtzigt knows that. He's had a few debates on it. Today he is debating it again, but that is a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u322	Nor have I heard Mr Nijboer on a subject such as the Slob c.s motion. on additional resources, if necessary, for refugees here and there, so in the region and here. Mr Samsom, the group chairman of Mr Nijboer, co-signed that motion. The cabinet is now saying that additional resources that may be needed can be found within the development cooperation budget. Does Mr Nijboer exclude me from this? Does he agree with the intention of the motion at the time that additional resources should not be sought within the budget for OS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u323	That motion was co-signed by my group chairman, I believe. We're just standing in front of that motion. That motion does say they're on-going programs. Some of the OS funds have been classified as ODA funds, so it is rather crazy if the reception of asylum seekers also counts for that 0.7%, to which many groups, including yours and mine, value. I'd find it weird to take it in there and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u324	This is a huge turnaround of words from the PvdA. It is about saying that we are spending extra money on ODA, which leads us to 0.7% if additional asylum seekers come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u325	That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u326	The motion explicitly calls for the refugee shelter not to be mixed with OS here and there. That was the intention of the motion. Mr Samsom also defended them in the debate. I note here that the PvdA is coming back to its words and, if necessary, gives room for the search for funds within the budget of OS. I expected the PvdA to have just distanced itself from that. We will try to prevent any additional resources from being found within the OS budget. I expect the PvdA to support us in that. Can Mr Nijboer undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u327	We fully support this motion. Current OS programmes should not suffer from the additional expenditure required for emergency care. Underneath that we have signed, so that is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u328	There are sometimes ministers who make statements in the PvdA circle that come back here. There are also some PvdA members who make statements towards political groups and ministers. So the PvdA still has its beautiful membership council. I have been extremely critical of the employment effect of this budget. Mr Nijboer almost blamed me for this and then the Minister explained in detail that this was really fantastic in terms of employment. However, I am in a special company. That member council of the PvdA chairman, excuse me for having to quote this for a moment, in fact, says unanimously: "Our groups in the First and Second Chambers encourage themselves to make maximum efforts in the examination of the 2016 National Budget and of the cabinet's proposals for a tax review for policies that create much more than 35,000 additional jobs and reduce inequality and poverty, and to justify these efforts and their outcome to the next party congress'. My question to Mr Nijboer is: do you have a problem or are you talking yourself out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u329	My whole contribution, both in the first term and in this one, is focused on employment and the creation of growth, also in the future. We hope to create a whole new institution to achieve this, not only to stress that GroenLinks should appeal to austerity and public finances, but also to investments needed to have a healthy well-being society in which well-being prevails. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u330	We are now at the end of a debate and I have not yet heard a concrete proposal from the PvdA Group to actually bring this closer to the cabinet's proposals. Isn't that right? Surely I have not seen Mr Nijboer table amendments and motions that lead to more employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u331	I have just tabled a motion, which is aimed at creating as much as possible. Getting the financial sector in line would help. I wish Mr Grashoff as many Members as we do, who constantly urge us to embrace this motion in order to achieve even more employment and to fight unemployment even more than we already do. Although I believe that the cabinet is taking good steps in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u332	Thank you. You can make your group secretary happy in five minutes. Tony van Dijck wins the game with seven minutes, because he will not speak at all. Mr Koolmees now has five minutes. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u333	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their clear response today. Yesterday I said that I thought the Tax Plan in particular was a missed opportunity, and I still think it is today. The Minister said it was comical today that I would suggest that the cabinet would no longer reform. Now a motion has just been tabled with all kinds of concrete options for reform, such as in the fields of education, labour market and housing market, by the coalition. That is a good motion, but I think it is also proof that the cabinet or coalition is ready and that we are now talking about the fence to the officials to work it out. But that would sound acidic, and I don't want to. The history of tax reform is not really comical, but rather tragic. I'll take you in time. Since 2009 we have been working on this, requested by Bos and De Jager: the first Van Weeghel committee. He published a wonderful report in 2010: make the tax system simpler, make working more rewarding and chop in the forest of deductions. Unfortunately, nothing happened to it. First Balkenende IV fell because the PvdA pulled the plug. In 2011 we asked Secretary of State Weekers, the successor of De Jager, why Rutte I did nothing with that report. His answer then was: there is no lubricating oil; we are in a financial and economic crisis and only with lubricating oil is a tax reform viable. Everyone, from left to right, in this Chamber agreed. According to Dutch tradition, therefore, a new committee, the Van Dijkhuizen Committee, was set up. In 2012 and 2013, there were two reports, namely an interim report and the final report, with basically the same recommendations: simpler, look at those deductions and make work more rewarding. In the meantime, that report has been on the table for two years, because once again, I quote the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, a system review without burden relief is not feasible, but relief without system revision is a missed opportunity. We are now witnessing this missed opportunity. The lubricating oil has finally been found, after six years, but it again failed because the lubricating oil is on the street. It's mostly a missed opportunity. I am very curious about the concrete plans for the reform of the pension system. I'm highly recommended. I hope it's not a process, but it's concrete choices. I am very much looking forward to this, especially since there are now really large bulkheads between all kinds of power building. As a result, the Netherlands is just vulnerable. On greening, my colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, is going to table a few concrete amendments. In this context, Mr Grashoff will be tabling a motion on my behalf. Two weeks ago, we tabled a motion to the General Political Reviews on appropriate education. I'm gonna go talk to the co-rapporteur and see if we can put that to the vote next week. I'm coming to Security and Justice. We are waiting for the cabinet to come into this area and what the problem analysis will be. We have said a number of times that we will find cover, but there is little support for this in the Chamber. However, we are very curious about the solutions that the cabinet comes up with. I'd like to make two more motions. The first is about diversity in the financial sector. The Minister embraced the idea and called it sympathetic. He wants to get on with it. I want to make the idea a little more concrete, as a kind of direction that Parliament wants to take. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that market participants in the Netherlands experience thresholds when applying for a banking licence, which restricts competition by new entrants to the banking sector;]] [[noting that a new authorisation procedure and requirements have been successfully set up in the United Kingdom to attract new entrants to the banking sector;]] [[Whereas more competition is needed in the Dutch banking sector, as this may lead to lower rates and higher quality;]] [[calls on the government, quickly and responsibly, to introduce an approach, method and start-up permit, similar to the United Kingdom, for the banking sector in the Netherlands and to inform the House of Representatives before the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koolmees and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u334	The second motion I have tabled concerns the treatment of equity and debt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current tax system gives companies more incentive to borrow money than to raise equity;]] [[Whereas relatively high levels of debt financing relative to equity make companies vulnerable in an economic crisis;]] [[calls on the government to increase the level of tax treatment of equity and debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koolmees and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u335	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their commitment to look at some things. First of all, I would like to mention the budget for security and justice. I say to the cabinet that it can use our counter-budget to find cover, should the cabinet need it. I have heard very well that the cabinet also leaves room for us to come forward with greening proposals. We will certainly look into that in the context of the Tax Plan. I would also like to thank the rulers for their commitment to the difference between the single-earners and the two-earners. My group will also make proposals to the Tax Plan itself to improve the purchasing power of chronically ill and disabled people. I have already come back to the intention of the motion Slob c.s. on asylum seekers, a motion adopted in the Chamber. We assume that coverage will not be sought within the development cooperation budget. We will come back to that later on in the Navy's note if necessary. My group has also tabled two amendments. I have tabled it on behalf of my colleague Segers. It's about investing $100 million in Defense. We find the cover for this in the intensification by the cabinet of the RDA and the Wsbo. I have also tabled an amendment on the gas ceiling. That's what it's meant to do, to give the Groningers clarity. However, we are not voting on this amendment until very late. That's why I want to give direction to the Groningen people now. They saw again yesterday what it means to live in an area where those earthquakes occur. I would also like to point out how we deal with this in the budget. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas inhabitants of the provinces of Groningen and Drenthe have been resurrected by earthquakes caused by gas extraction;]] [[Whereas, in the interests of safety, the scope of gas extraction from the Groningen field should continue to be limited in 2016;]] [[Considering that there is no further restriction in the proposed 2016 state budget because the cabinet still assumes a size of 33 billion m of gas extraction;]] [[Calls on the Government to substantially reduce the level of gas extraction from the Groningenveld in 2016 and to charge the lower gas revenues to the balance in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten, Mr Koolmees, Mr Grashoff and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u336	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating the Secretary of State for his wonderful college on wealth tax. I also believe that this should not be made available to higher education as a college. This in turn helps to maintain our education and save costs. I would like to encourage the Cabinet to at least retain those property tax proposals as an integral part of the Tax Plan. That can help, at least in the assessment of our group in the tax plan. On the subject of greening, we have noted that there is room on the side of the Secretary of State for discussion on energy taxation for large consumers and, as I call it, for balance of energy taxation for gas and electricity consumers. We shall take the initiative. I hope that we will be able to count on the cooperation of the department in the exchange of information, so that we know very well about each other how certain facts are put together. Sometimes that's really necessary. With regard to the carbon bubble and the risks to financial stability in a broad sense, I take good note of the Minister's undertaking that he will return to this in a letter. I sincerely hope that the Minister prefers to spend a little more time on it, but he is doing well. We believe that it is quite fundamental and that there is a risk of underestimating this at the moment. I'd like to wait for the discussion. It seems to me to be an important issue that we are certainly not just done with. With regard to the Slob motion on money for refugees, I wholeheartedly endorse what Mrs Schouten said about this. For our group, too, there is no doubt about it: not at the expense of development cooperation. In due course we will come back to it, should it be unexpectedly different. Finally, I have two motions. I hope that the first can be seen by the Secretary of State in support of his policy. I think it's important to tighten up one little thing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy tax for large consumers is so low that this gives little incentive to achieve energy savings;]] [[Whereas it is possible to carry out an increase in the energy tax for large consumers in a cost-neutral manner by using the proceeds for energy saving facilities for large consumers;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the likely effects of a step-by-step increase in the energy tax for large consumers, including the possibilities for refund of income in (fiscal) incentives for energy savings for large consumers, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the treatment of the Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government has indicated that it will execute the judgment in the Urgenda case;]] [[Whereas at present there is still uncertainty as to how the closure of a number of coal-fired power stations can be dealt with as agreed in the Energy Agreement;]] [[Whereas the ECN quickscan shows that achieving the 15 megaton additional CO reduction, according to Urgendavonnis, will almost certainly require further reductions in coal power plant emissions;]] [[calls on the Government to analyse various options for further reductions in coal-fired power plants, including the option of coal taxation;]] [[calls on the Government to send this analysis to the Chamber prior to the examination of the 2016 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-58]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Koolmees and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u337	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Cabinet for its reply. As stated in the first term, our country is not doing well. There are over 600,000 unemployed, the state debt is 466 billion and more money is still being spent than it comes in. If we really want to stimulate the economy, if we really want to create more purchasing power and more jobs, and if we really want to facilitate entrepreneurs rather than discourage them, then we need to focus on a substantial reduction of burdens and more economic freedom. I am thinking of a flat tax of 23% with an increasing duty-free rate, a uniform VAT rate, lower excise duties, low VAT rates and not a mandatory supplementary pension. By the way, all this has been properly calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. It can be financed by cutting into that silly care allowance set. To give the cabinet a first push in the right direction, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the level of support for the compulsory and collective supplementary pension is decreasing;]] [[Whereas individuals should not be forced to pay part of their salary into a collective fund for a supplementary pension;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the compulsory supplementary pension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u338	Mr. Chairman. According to my group secretary, I have 22 minutes left, but the group chairman does not agree, so I will be brief. I thank the government for the answers. I would also like to thank the Minister for his compliments on my counter-budget. It was a fun finger exercise. That tastes like more. The main reason for me, as one-man group, to make the effort to draw up and submit a counter-budget was employment. I sincerely believe that the cabinet is choosing the wrong route with its burden relief package. In fact, the Minister did not reply to one question from my first speech. That was my question about the marginal tax burden, which is further increased by the reduction of tax rebates. My question was, therefore, whether it would not be a more sensible way forward to re-assess this reduction of charges, for example, as I did in my counter-budget. One of my questions to the Secretary of State has also remained unanswered. That question was about the tax reform, which is being discussed all the time. I have always said that there would be no such thing, but if one starts again with the Tax Plan, will the Tax Administration then be able to implement a tax system change? Is he ready for that? That is a crucial question for me. You have to answer that before you start talking about it at all. I know that the General Financial Reviews are a collection bank to talk about everything from CO emissions to police deployment and the closure of courts. That gives me the freedom to briefly remind you of discussions about auditors and claims. Others were talking about that. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that EY and Deloitte, immediately followed by PwC, have said that their profits and turnover have increased enormously. I think the package-Plasterk/Van Vliet in its original form was not so bad. So you can forget about those claims. Finally, I am tabling a motion on the point where I started my first term, namely the still substantial remaining budget deficit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the Millions Note, the government presented a 2016 budget to the House of Representatives showing on balance a budget deficit of 1.4% of GDP;]] [[Whereas this corresponds to an amount of approximately 10 billion more spent than revenue received by the government;]] [[Considering that sustainable and robust public finances are of the utmost importance for future generations and that budgetary balance is the way forward;]] [[whereas several European countries, including Germany, have legally anchored a budgetary balance and Germany has had a budget surplus for three years;]] [[Whereas in recent discussions on the general government deficit, the 3% standard of the European Stability and Growth Pact has always been the dominant theme;]] [[whereas a budget deficit may simply get out of control as a result of global financial and economic developments and that this will help to focus on how much deficit one may have according to a standard presents a risk of impairment;]] [[calls on the Government to declare that the achievement of a budgetary balance or balance a budget surplus is the main objective in drawing up a budget rather than looking at how much deficit you may have,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u339	Fifteen motions have been tabled. In five minutes' time, both heads of government will give their opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u340	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Chamber. I mean that sincerely. I think we have had a nice substantive debate today, which I very much love. I have a stack of motions, which I will deal with shortly, and three amendments. Apart from that, there are two more questions. One was Mr Nijboer's on the risks associated with DNB operations. I said two things about this; first of all, I think they should be addressed in the annual report of DNB. I have also said that I will deal with this issue in greater detail in our own annual report, in which we also have a point of risk. I'd like to repeat that one more time. Mr Van Vliet asked about the design of the 5 billion package. I doubt the Secretary of State has gone into that. Possibly this is an abundance. Mr Van Vliet has asked two questions. The first question was whether it is not much smarter to reduce the first tax base, because all workers benefit from it and need less compensation. We have designed this 5 billion package mainly on the workers. We have chosen to use a number of other instruments. The first disc is less focused, as one understands. That's why. The second question was why we should reduce the general tax rebate if it increases marginal pressure. The reduction of the general tax reduction for higher incomes is again used to reduce the rates. That is also part of this package. Mr Van Vliet is right that marginal pressure is being increased by this part, but it is being reduced by the overall package. That's why we do that. On balance, this package reduces the average marginal pressure for workers from 46.1 to 45.9 in 2016. I shall deal first with the amendments and then with the motions. First of all, the amendment on item No. Mr Schouten and Mr Dik-Faber on gas extraction. For the sake of security of supply, the cabinet is based on 33 billion cubic metres. The new decision will be taken at the end of this year. We can't force that tonight. On this basis, we will adjust the estimates of gas revenues in the budget. I can't put a number on that right now. That is why it would also be strange to adjust the budget amounts ad hocly. I understand from Mrs Schouten that this amendment is not being voted on, and that is also logical, so we may have a gas decision before we vote. I can't quite see that. Maybe it'll get back together. Once again, I cannot support the number here and not take on board the cabinet at the moment, so I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u341	I would like to add that we are not going to vote on these amendments until December.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u342	Yeah, and the gas decision comes in December, too. That's why I said I don't know if that's gonna come together in time. The amendment in part No. 8, members Knops and Dijkgraaf, increases the budget for Defense. This is in itself in line with the government's policy of gradually releasing additional resources for Defence where necessary and where possible. There is urgency about this theme. We're structurally releasing 345 million for the Defense Department. Last year it was about 150 million extra, I say out of my mind. We have increased the Defence budget by more than half a billion in two steps, all to repair very large cuts from the previous period. Anyway, we're on the right track. This amendment now goes further in that direction. We have always said that, when international developments make this necessary and there are financial opportunities, we can move forward in increasing the defence budget. Right now, I don't want to do it. The coverage consists of an increase in taxes for 50 million. This is contrary to the budgetary rules. This has just been argued and exchanged by Members. If I understand correctly, some of it comes from the price adjustment in which Defense, V and J and I and M are spared. That means de facto that 35 million out of the 50 million will be found in Education, and I do not want to take that priority on board. The proposed increase in gambling tax by 100 million is very substantial. That's a 20% increase. The debate on the interest rebate for bank employees has already been held with the Secretary of State. We're not gonna feed that again. Given the coverage, I must advise against the amendment. In the amendment to item No. 9, by Mr Segers and Mr Schouten, we are also talking about extra money, 100 million, for the Defence Department. In substance, I say the same thing about this as about the previous amendment. The coverage is different, namely the Wbso/RDA scheme. That's very remarkable. It is a tax system, so this is where the budgetary rules stand. Nor is it at all our choice of substance. With the new integrated scheme and the additional space created for it, we promote further innovation and research and development work in industry. In order to cover this, there is a disputable choice of content. That is only our opinion, but we do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u343	Mrs Schouten, I have one question per motion or vote. Amendment by the first proposer, but in this case by the second proposer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u344	Does the Minister recognise that this is a tax issue in terms of coverage and that the CPB also perceives it as an expenditure? Does the Minister recognise that this means that it remains in the expenditure sphere and that it is therefore a proper cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u345	I don't think so. It is really contrary to the separation of income and expenditure. I'm just gonna take a look at my experts, who are the only ones who have any sense about this. I see them nodding, so I maintain my position on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u346	Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u347	The motion in part No. 48, by Mrs Merkies, is the first motion I take on board. It calls for an additional 200 million to be made available for the V and J budgets. At least there's no cover in this motion. For that reason alone, I betray her. My order is to first make an analysis together with the Minister of V and J and then come back to the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, the amount in this motion has not been substantiated. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the motion in part No. 49 Mr Merkies asked that the household allowance in the AOW be definitively deleted. This is in the budget for 2018. I take note of the views expressed by the Chamber, by all the political groups. This means that there may be proposals for cover to be removed from it. I would point out that the proposal was adopted in both chambers. Several signatories to the motion also voted in favour. The decision has therefore been adopted in both chambers, only the date of entry into force has been postponed. That is all parliamentary history. The household allowance is now in the budget. If a majority of the Chamber thinks it should be permanently deleted, we have until 1 January 2018 to find another cover. I shall come back to Mr Omtzig's question on how much time we have. The technical answer to that is that it can be very late. It is only an entry into force decision, but due care to those involved really requires us to do it earlier. Again, it is only on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u348	I note that the motion in part No. 49 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u349	The Minister says that care requires that we do this earlier, but I asked for a date, of course. "First" and "later" are stretchy concepts, all the way in politics; on both sides by the way. Does this mean that it will happen before 1 January 2017, so that people have a year to prepare themselves? Is this more or less in line with the definition of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u350	I can't say that right now. It also depends on whether a cover is provided and whether a majority of the Chamber thinks it can be replaced by another cover. That's a condition for me. Earlier, I can't say it's going to happen at all or when.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u351	I see that Mr Omtzigt wishes to intervene again, but I have just said that I will allow one question per motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u352	I have a point of order. I asked a question. It wasn't about cover, it was about care. The minister said care means we should have done this sooner. I asked him what's more "honorable," but then he started talking about the cover again. My question is: when should the household allowance be abolished in order to meet the criterion of care, so that the people who have to decide whether or not they are going to live with their parents have the time to prepare themselves? They could be in for a nasty surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u353	Earlier is well on time for 1 January 2018; we are not even in January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u354	Mr Merkies is the author of the motion, so he may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u355	Mr President, you concluded that the motion in part No. Forty-nine has been dissuaded, but I did not hear the Minister say that so clearly, so I would like to hear that out of his mouth. I was given the impression that he would like to leave the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u356	No. Motions that are not provided with coverage are all discouraged. Let me roll out that general policy line, and Members will know where they stand. This motion is currently uncovered and cannot therefore be carried out. This theme will therefore have to come back at a later date, preferably with coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u357	I see Mr Koolmees standing at the interrupting microphone, but we have agreed to allow one question per motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u358	I would like to make a factual correction to a statement made by the Minister. This law has indeed been passed in both the Lower House and the Upper Chamber, but with the agreement that it will only enter into force after, again, an approval from both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u359	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u360	As long as a law has not entered into force, and even if it has entered into force, a majority may revert to it, but the law has just been passed. I see Mr Koolmees shaking his head, but the law has really been passed. He can stand on his head, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u361	That would be a good proposal. I smell a bet in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u362	Several signatories to the motion also voted in favour. The motion in part No. 50, on the Infrastructure Fund and the Delta Fund, I leave it to the Court to decide. She's so widely supported, I wouldn't dare do otherwise. It's also a fine motion, which we can work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u363	The motion in part No. 51 leave you to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u364	No, that was the motion in part No. 50. I have just embraced it warmly, with every qualification of warmth and love, but mostly you say that you leave the motion to the judgment of the Chamber. And that's what I said. In the motion in part No. 51 the Government is invited to prepare a letter of amendment to the Security and Justice budget, increasing expenditure by 200 million. Here again there is another 200 million. Apparently, that amount has suddenly crystallized. The government is also invited to seek cover for investments in the sector plans of the Ministry of SZW and the Dutch Good Growth Fund, in good Dutch. That cover is occasional. The operative part calls on the government to solve structural problems. That's not possible with occasional coverage. This is a recurring discussion I'm having with the CDA. I remember last year's General Financial Reviews. That was the exact same thing at the time. A motion was also tabled on the Dutch Good Growth Fund, now that I think about it. At the same time, I said: that is a fund; you can take it out once, but that does not cover structural objectives. In addition, the amount of 200 million has been taken out of the sky. Let us first analyse the real extent of the risks and the likelihood of them occurring. We will send a letter on that. I advise against this motion. With the motion-Omtzitzt in part No. 52 are really getting smashed in a couple of windows that I really attach to. Mr Omtzigt's argument was that because the President of France apparently called for more buy-back programmes, we are going to do so now, but with a call for fewer buy-back programmes. The Netherlands and a number of other countries in North-West Europe always had a different, very strict and precise view of political interference in monetary policy. I hope the CDA doesn't throw it overboard. That will happen with this motion. I really dissuade this motion on the merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u365	Monetary policy does not mean buying up everything that is fixed and loose. I have two questions. Did the Minister at any time address President Hollande to the fact that he does have a political view? And did he address Prime Minister Rutte to the fact that he also publicly said on a visit to Obama that he didn't think it was a good idea for the ECB to buy more? Both things are publicly said. So he's moving away from both things?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u366	My view is that politics is not going to determine monetary policy. I'll hold on to that. I hope that the CDA will continue to support that view. We have previously had a motion in which we gave an opinion on the conduct of monetary policy. But at least in that motion, the government was not asked to make an active plea for it. This motion is really going to move on. I'm not suggesting the motion in question. The motion in part No. 54, by Mr Nijboer and Mr Harbers, concerns a study group on sustainable growth. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. I would like to make a critical remark about the last verse. If you commission a study group on sustainable growth, just like the Study Group on Budget Space, once every four years now, but actually before elections, then that study group will also have freedom in its independence. The last verse is very detailed about what the study group should do. They could have left the proposers out. However, it is no reason for me to discourage the motion. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 54, then, to the Chamber. I'm gonna continue with the motion on part number one. 55 by Mr Koolmees and Mrs De Vries. I thought we had a point of cooperation here, but then Mr Koolmees immediately forwards. Now it has to be in jugs and jars by the end of the year. That is simply unrealistic and not feasible. I said that we will come back to it in conjunction with the Actal report on banking licensing and barriers to entry. I would actually ask Mr Koolmees to change that part of the operative part and to formulate it a little more as an exploration. It shouldn't say: we're gonna do it before the end of the year. That's too fast for me. To be honest, I do not think that the proposal is sufficiently developed. I am not accusing Mr Koolmees of this, because he is simply giving me a direction of thought that appeals to me. But then you shouldn't say right away: and so we're gonna do it, and then we are. I would like to know more precisely what Mr Koolmees is asking of me. And he hasn't worked that out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u367	I'm going to negotiate with the Minister. I'm willing to take out the last sentence. Then I'll take out "before the end of this year." I am changing the operative part, but I am intending to come up with a plan of action, such as the Bank of England and the FCA established in the United Kingdom, which states how to make it easier for start-ups to start a bank. This should include such a support point, but also, for example, growth models of capital ratios. In particular, it is not a question of monitoring behaviour. So it is not about financial supervision, but above all about prudential risks, the prudential requirements that are very difficult for start-ups. That is an additional explanation of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u368	Mr Koolmees makes it easier for me to say that 'before the end of the year' is going out, but he makes it more difficult for me to say that certain prudential requirements need to be lightened. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I suspect that Mr Koolmees will change the motion on a few points, and I think he will do so in my direction, so that I get a little more freedom to work it out seriously. I'll tell him that. I do not yet draw any conclusions about 'when' and 'that it will happen', but we are going to take it extremely seriously and leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u369	Given this positive fundamental note, I will amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u370	We expect a modified motion-Koolmees/Aukje de Vries in part no. 55.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u371	In the motion-Schouten c.s. in piece No. 57 the government is invited to substantially reduce the level of gas extraction in 2016 and to charge the lower gas revenues to the balance. I have to discourage the motion. It really is a motion that anticipates the Gas Decision of the end of 2015. If we lower, this will be charged to the balance. That's right. If the motion is held, we will be able to review it on the basis of the decision taken in December. In the motion-Van Klaveren to piece No. 60 the government is asked to put an end to the compulsory supplementary pension. I would like to discourage this motion in substance. I think that some paternalism in the pension system is sensible and necessary. I also think it is wise to have some collective elements of risk sharing in the pension system. This is far too radical in my opinion. For the rest, I propose that the discussion continue on the basis of the retirement plans of Secretary of State Klijnsma. In the Van Vliet motion on part No. 61 the government is invited to declare that the achievement of a budgetary balance or balance is a matter for the government. a budget surplus which is the most important objective in drawing up a budget, rather than looking at how much deficit you may have. We do not send on the 3% guardrail, let there be no misunderstanding. We'll get out of there as soon as possible. But a budget is more than just a budget. A budget is also about giving room for economic recovery and providing incentives or fiscal support for it. I also call a responsible purchasing power image and so on. I understand the intention of Mr Van Vliet, who says: do not turn the 3% into the new zero, but go to the zero. I agree with that, but I think the operative part is rather absolute, namely that it is the most important objective. It is nice, but I do think I would advise against the motion, otherwise next year I will be judged on the fact that I do not have a balance, and that is too much for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u372	Sypathetic, but dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u373	The operative part also states, of course, that it is the most important, compared to the occurrence of a deficit. I do not mean to say that next year I am going to charge the cabinet for achieving a balance, but that the focus should not be on the deficit, but on achieving a balance in the long term. That's the incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u374	Then here's what I'm suggesting. The motion asks the government to pronounce that. I'm willing to do that here. I am not referring to a deficit and certainly not to a critical deficit threshold of 3%, but we are gradually moving, at a responsible but steady pace, towards a budgetary balance or balance. - surplus. That's how the motion was carried out. I would therefore like to declare the motion superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u375	The motion has been carried out and unnecessary and thus dissuade. We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State now. We still have a few motions to make, so with a little luck we'll be done by noon anyway. That saves again, because after twelve hours we end up in a different rate for the room rental.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u376	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mr Merkies' 47 is about taxing the real rate of return. I'm grateful to him for the encouragement, but when it came to greening, I had to establish that he predicted what I would say. But now he repeats what I have just said. This is about the commitment I have just made in detail, but there are three things in it that make me recommend the motion. Firstly, it says in the motion 'the real return'. The word "real" here is the opposite of "nominal." In terms of return, that means something quite different from what Mr Merkies means here. Secondly, it is not up to the Tax Administration alone to take action here, but all kinds of chain partners, including the legislator, must take action. Thirdly, I have made a whole speech in which I had the capital gains tax as the last item on my wish list. Mr Merkies is making it part of policy. I would really ask him not to make this part of parliamentary history in any way, because there are things that we should not want just now. I can imagine that there are two ways to fix that: the most logical thing I would suggest to him is to leave the promise just made and withdraw the motion, or to review the motion technically on points. However, I can also imagine that Mr Merkies could live with the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u377	Maybe I can technically revise the motion on points, but I need to get that right. I understand a few points. If I can revise it so that the overall still remains a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u378	I don't know if you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u379	Would you like the Minister to write the motion for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u380	It's your motion, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u381	Yes, but perhaps the Minister can give some hints, so I know that the motion also has a chance to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u382	Let me put it this way: the hints should lead to the motion not to be discouraged anymore, but to be superfluous at most. For that, you can join my political assistant. I can say something about it, but I'm not gonna do it here right now. In this form, I advise against the motion. I urge Mr Merkies not to table the motion in this way, because there are things in it that he does not want either. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 53 by Mr Omtzigt, inviting the Government to ask the CPB to write a note on the principle of carrying capacity. I had a little talk about that. The Van Dijkhuizen Committee looked at the principle of carrying capacity in detail. We even have someone in our midst, Mr Dijkgraaf, who did the same. By the way, I don't see him anymore; he's probably the only man who's been wise and he's run away. It rustles with the political purchasing power plates that make political judgement on this issue to a large extent possible. I therefore do not really see such added value, apart from the fact that such a thing as tax to carrying capacity is just too vague a principle to get a value judgment from the CPB. I have already confirmed that I see the substance of the three parties. This will certainly be the subject of discussions in some way, so this note is not necessary either. The motion in this form I advise against. The motion in part No. 56 by Mr Koolmees and Mrs Schouten, on equity and debt financing. I think it is quite an understandable request, also considering the academic literature on this subject. On the other hand, it's an old acquaintance. To put it a little critically, it's also a little cheap. This proposal was included in the letter sent to the Chamber before the summer as part of a wider package of 15 billion reliefs which would also relieve employers' burdens. There was no political support for that. I assume that the first petitioner can remember that moment, and now it comes back as a motion. I have the following proposal. This subject comes back in the context of BEPS and there will undoubtedly be many more words to be said about it. Given the letter previously sent, one knows the basic attitude of the cabinet. In this form and with this digitality, I must discourage the motion. That also has to do with the fact that I think it's a little faint. That's the only negative thing I'll say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u383	Why is this silly? It's a good proposal from the Secretary of State. The Chamber has been asking for this in different combinations for a number of years. This is a real problem for the Dutch economy. The Secretary of State also believes that it is a good proposal. Then the motion is dissuaded, while I see it as an incentive from the Secretary of State, hearing his first-term words. He keeps thinking about good solutions for the future. I think it's a bit silly that the motion is now being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u384	I have said twice that, of course, there are proposals like this, even if only because we will talk about this in the context of BEPS. In the form of a wide package of 15 billion relief measures, we have suggested this as an option. I would advise against the motion in this form and with this digitation to say that we are still going to talk about it in the context of BEPS. In the motion in part No. Mr Grashoff and Mr Merkies asked the government to identify the likely effects of a step-by-step increase in energy taxation for large consumers, including the possibilities for a return lock to large consumers. I want to be critical of this and make a commitment on it. I'm willing to go into this in a letter. I want to put what we know about this on paper. I'm gonna have to warn you about the specific backlock. From an economic point of view, that is a very logical idea. A higher energy tax rate reduces energy consumption and is returned in measures via another tax route. However, we have not yet found a specific backlock that passes the State aid test. The letter states that as the energy tax for large consumers is further increased, there are shifting risks. I can describe industries going abroad. There are generic possibilities for re-locking, even if only because of the Vpb tariff, but specific possibilities are quite problematic. I say to Mr Grashoff that I am prepared to send such a letter in all its nuance and with support. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u385	You interpret the motion correctly. I'm not withdrawing the motion, but I'm maintaining her as a signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u386	It's Judgment Room. I'm going to proceed with the motion. It's an important matter. The measure is often suggested and it is good to put something on paper. The expectations should not be too high. Economically, I understand the motion, but legally, it's a little more complicated. I'll finish with the motion in part no. 59 by Mr Grasshoff, Mr Koolmees and Mrs Schouten. The government is asked to analyse various options for further reductions in coal-fired power stations and to include the coal tax option. Now, of course, you can say: the coal tax was in the energy agreement, wasn't it? Then I would like to join Mr Grashoff in saying: yes, but an analysis is not against the energy agreement. So that can never be the argument. However, what is happening here is that this falls directly into the scope of ibo CO2. My fellow Secretary of State from I and M has said a lot about this, including in the context of Urgenda. I refer to the various letters she has sent to the Chamber. I can assure Mr Grashoff that this should in principle be in the scope of the ibo. I therefore recommend this motion, which I would like to stress once again that the decision on activity and, therefore, the clarity of the coal-fired power stations will soon be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u387	Mr Grashoff, one short question. Then we can end it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u388	It is precisely because I think we need some of that information before dealing with the Tax Plan in order to be able to properly assess whether we could finally agree with the Tax Plan on these aspects. I also know that there is a lot of discussion about it, but in the meantime we have adopted the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u389	That is why it is important that this activity decision is taken before we adopt the Tax Plan. I have just promised Mr Omtzigt that I will make a plea to my colleagues. The Secretary of State for I and M also discussed with the Chamber this particular concern about timing. It has made the conditions and wishes clear. I'll join her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u390	Thank you. I would like to thank the two leaders for their commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-11.u391	In December we will be voting on the total budget, including the amendments we discussed this evening. On Tuesday we will vote on the motions. Does one of the rulers still need a nice closing word to mark this moment? That is not the case. I thank the two gentlemen once again and wish them a pleasant journey home.
