ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Minister Asscher gave a flood of interviews this weekend. One would almost think that the Minister is a little concerned about the introduction of the Work and Security Act. But between the texts about that law, it was also about something else. The Minister said in the Volkskrant that he wants public insurance against incapacity for work for self-employed persons without staff. That should be a collective but voluntary insurance policy. That's good news. Only a third of thezzp'ers now have insurance against incapacity for work and better, voluntary access to that insurance is urgently needed. However, there are parties, such as the Labour Party, who want compulsory disability insurance for employees. A lot ofzzp'ers aren't waiting for that. They want to make their own choices. They therefore look forward with some fear to the cabinet note that has been announced for weeks about the research that has been done onzzp'ers. They are, of course, reassured by these words from the Minister. So I have one question: can the Minister confirm that the cabinet will not propose compulsory disability insurance for employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is important not to talk about "zzp'ers," but to see the diversity of that group. They're hard-working people. Some earn very much and others very little. Some people choose entrepreneurship from their full breasts and others come across will and thanks because their employer, as a so-called client, performs them. One of the problems with some of thezzp'ers is that they are not insured against incapacity for work, whereas they did not consciously choose to do so. Then it's important to wonder what you can do about it. You could set up compulsory insurance for everyone, but that has major disadvantages. This is why the cabinet is looking at ways to make voluntary insurance more attractive, either via private options or via the UWV route. That will be part of the response to the ibo. And it does mean that we now have no plans to propose compulsory disability insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	I'm pleased with that answer. Allzzp'ers who were afraid of being forced into a straitjacket now know where they stand: there will be no compulsory insurance. That is profit, because the Labour Party said: let's just do this collectively and not leave it to individual choices. I'm glad the Minister's choosing a different course. All he's saying is that these plans are coming. Then there's something I don't understand. Already in February, D66 made proposals to deal with the existing public insurance at UWV. D66 said, "Now tell someone who's gonna be zzp'er that he's gonna have more time to decide if he wants to continue with UWV that relatively affordable voluntary insurance." The minister said: no no, that is premature; wait for the cabinet response to the ibo. D66 also said: make sure that also people who start out aszzp'er and therefore have never been an employee can voluntarily insure themselves in the public insurance at UWV. Then the Minister said: no, that is premature; wait for the ibo. Every time D66 made a proposal, it was untimely, but before this Chamber received the cabinet response to the ibo and knows what the cabinet will do tozzp'ers, the minister was already in the paper on Saturday! That's not the right order, is it? Of course, I'd also like to know when that cabinet response is coming. Because there are no plans, sounds very good, but I'm not really sure until this is just in the ibo, unless the Minister says clip-and-clip that there's no obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	The cabinet wants to give entrepreneurs a job. Self-employed people who have often taken huge blows during the crisis must have the space to really recover. We also have an eye for the fact that some are self-employed in name but in fact should be employees. That's where exploitation takes place. In fact, very low rates are set there. Then you're not really talking about self-employed people, and that's a problem too. The ibo looks at all aspects of self-employment, both the fiscal aspects, the protection aspects we are talking about and the position on the labour market. This means that the proposals must indeed be seen in conjunction. I would have liked to have given those proposals to Mr Van Weyenberg now. That was not possible, because there were still too many files on the tax system last night. It can't be all at once. I can't give those proposals before the summer. I'm sorry because it starts here the day after tomorrow, but immediately after the summer, with a cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	Then it remains remarkable that the minister in the newspaper does tell us what the cabinet is going to do, while the Chamber does not receive a cabinet response. That investigation's been done for weeks. It's been in a closet for weeks. The Minister always said we'd get it before the summer. If you look outside, you can feel it in this room a little bit too, you can see that the summer has definitely begun. That is why I repeat my question: when will that happen? I believe that proposals should always be made in this Chamber and not in the Volkskrant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	I very much agree with that. I am also looking forward to sending the proposals for improving the position of self-employed workers to this Chamber. These are proposals for the labour market. The interviews in the newspaper were indeed about the labour market, because tomorrow the new Work and Security Act will come into force. We will discuss this later this week in the Chamber. It is logical that questions should be asked about the self-employed in the labour market. I indicated in those interviews that we hope to come up with a cabinet response to the IBO Zzp shortly. Mr Van Weyenberg called for this. I hope to be able to reassure him right after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	So much delay is, of course, a pity, but the Chamber can also deal with it itself. We have often put forward D66's plans for voluntary insurance. A motion will be put to the vote tomorrow to ensure that thezzp'er does not get 13 but 26 weeks to decide for himself whether he wants to continue the voluntary public insurance. Because if the Cabinet waits, the Chamber will just take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	I agree with the latter. We have had a whole discussion here about voluntary or obligation. In the end, it's about the fact that a lot ofzzp'ers don't have the money to take out that insurance. That's also because that insurance is relatively expensive. You can do this in part by indeed extending at the UWV. What does this Minister intend to do in general to ensure that disability insurance simply becomes affordable for every employee, so for every employee and everyzzp'er? What's he gonna do for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	I agree with Mrs Schouten. A third is insured. Some of them are deliberately not insured. Those are the people who can afford it, because they have sufficient other income. Another part is not insured, sometimes because these people are not sufficiently aware of the risks and sometimes because they think the premium is too high. That last point in particular is a problem. There is a range of ways to resolve this, for example through premiums, by increasing the accessibility of the UWV and by making private insurance more attractive. The proposals will come in response to the ibo, because they are of course related to all other proposals for self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	But I do not think that is an answer to Mrs Schouten's question. She asked, "How are you gonna settle this voluntarily and affordable?" The Minister says, "I'd like to take care of that." But he's not gonna let us know how this is gonna happen. If the Minister states in several newspapers what he wants, he must also make his plans here for voluntary, affordable disability insurance forzzp'ers concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	It's really a little early for that. I'm very sorry about that. We have to wait until after the summer holidays, because this is part of a cabinet proposal in connection with research into self-employed people. The line is called for by Mr Van Weyenberg in this connection, and he is entitled to know that we make a distinction between self-employed people who have a great deal of work for themselves and self-employed people who have a very difficult life. In that last group, you have to look at the protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	Last week, in the Chamber, I proposed that the payment of wages in the event of illness should be made to the employer for one more year and that this should be regulated collectively in the second year. The Minister did not recommend that proposal to the Chamber. I do not know in which newspaper anymore; it has not been in all the newspapers that the minister himself is now in favour of this. Does this mean that tomorrow we will vote on this motion for a resolution that the Minister now turns his advice and says to the Chamber: this is a good idea from the SP and other parties; I support that? Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense what you said in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	No. In his proposal, Mr Ulenbelt wanted to ensure the payment of wages in the case of sickness in the second year to a large extent. That would cost a lot of money and produce relatively little. The real problem lies with the very small employer who does not dare to hire people, because he is concerned about the risk of people getting sick and then he is stuck for two years with that payment. In general consultation with your Chamber, which was a very constructive consultation, I said that there is a problem there that we need to come up with a clever solution. That clever solution should not be a huge one, as Mr Ulenbelt's proposal does. Nor is it intended that you remove something that works well, namely that you make employers responsible for helping people to work. However, you have to take into account especially small employers who are eager to employ people and do not do so for that reason. I mentioned these three elements in the paper, as was the case in the general consultation. There was no surprise in that. The adoption of Mr Ulenbelt's proposal puts us all on a colossal footing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	It is good to hear that there does not need to be compulsory disability insurance for employees. This would also jeopardise the competitiveness of manyzzp'ers in Europe. I agree with the same article and I have a question about it. You say that the rules on the free movement of labour must be dealt with. How does this relate to that remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	The free movement of services and persons has brought a great deal of prosperity to Europe, but too often the negative effects have been removed. Meanwhile, you can see that it has become a business model to artificially make workers from other countries cheaper than workers from the Netherlands. That has nothing to do with the European ideal, and that has nothing to do with the simple principle of equal pay for equal work. This government says you have to change this. You need to modernise that. In construction, Dutch employers are sometimes hundreds of euros more expensive as a result of these European rules. You're gonna have to change this. Then we can all be enthusiastic about the free movement of persons and the free movement of services. If you ignore that, you only organise competition that leads to a race to the bottom, with lower and lower working conditions being enforced for workers in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u16	The free movement of persons and services therefore applies only to workers and workers. So this doesn't apply tozzp'ers. At what time does the government intend to submit these proposals to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u17	We've been lobbying for it for a few years. At first, it was considered an unpleasant discussion in Europe. Freedom of movement was a bowl that you just had to put in the closet and polish. We now have seven countries behind our initiative. Many countries want fair free movement. They want good work in Europe. They don't want a race to the bottom to compete with the Chinese, but they want people in Europe to make progress. To change the rules, you need more countries. You need a majority of 28 countries. This autumn, the European Commission will come forward with proposals for freedom of movement. We will test them against the question of whether they will lead to a decent labour market in Europe. I hope to take this further during the Dutch Presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you for coming to the Chamber.
