ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, Nibud announced that one in five MBO students is in debt. That is a very worrying message, because being in debt at a young age can be a harbinger of a life of debt and care. This is also evident from the fact that a large proportion of the young people in debt are very concerned, are under stress and have lost their grip on finance. Extra worrying is that the financial vulnerability increases as the MBO student gets older. You'd think, the older, the wiser. I'm afraid that's not the case. I ask the Minister whether she shares my concerns, but also whether she can promise the Chamber that it will take action. It is important that young people start talking about money with each other, with parents, with teachers and with the young people who are late for talking about money, that is to say for those who are already in debt with debt relief. This discussion about money is necessary to prevent, tackle and reduce financial problems. I would like to hear from the Minister what she is already doing in this area and what measures it intends to take. I would also like to hear from her how she will explicitly involve the investigation of the Nibud. The Nibud provides five directions for solution. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she shares it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I share Mrs Jadnansing's concerns, because it is very important that young people should not be burdened with large debts, especially if this is not done consciously. That financial vulnerability is worrying. However, we have to distinguish between the causes of these debts on the part of MBOs. One in five MBOs appears to have a debt and the average debt has increased in four years. However, we also know that only a very limited part of that debt is related to study and study funding. A much larger proportion of the debt is built up by consumer spending. That too is worrying, but that is not only a concern of education, but a concern that lives wider. That is also in the area of my colleague from Social Affairs who is talking about debt relief. We know 20% of all MBOs borrow. 10% of all MBOs borrow from DUO. So it's mostly about scholarships. 20% of MBOs are entitled to study funding. The main problems are in fact consumer spending. That does not alter the fact that we need to raise financial awareness there too. That brings me to Mrs Jadnansing's second question: what are we doing? We're taking some measures. For example, we do this through the platform Wijzer in money matters. This platform consists of 40 partners from the financial sector, education, information and consumer organisations, science and, of course, the government. With this platform we are working on the financial self-reliance of Dutch young people. It is very important that we find ways that appeal to young people. I support the initiative of the Nibud together with the Foundation Weet What You Spend to develop an online financial plan for MBOs. Those are also parts of the Nibud that Mrs Jadnansing mentioned. This includes, among other things, a tool that enables young people to draw up their own financial plans. Teaching programs are being developed, including by Utrecht University of Applied Sciences, to guide teachers to make their students aware of how to deal with money. Finally, the much discussed calculation test here can also help students to consciously deal with what is for sale in the world. We have already indicated that it is not just about the didactic aspects that are attached to them, but also about the knowledge you need to know, for example, what a cell phone costs. Together with the Nibud and other organisations, we do everything we can to increase that financial awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	I hear the Minister has this subject on the radar, but I'm afraid that's not enough. Especially vulnerable young people are in debt, and debt makes young people even more vulnerable. That is a downward spiral that we must break. I see a major role for parents and schools, but also for commercial parties. Does the Minister share my view that they too should accept their social responsibility? How is it that 21% of young people can stand red unsolicited? Is the Minister prepared to enter into this discussion? Being red may be a choice, but it must at least be a conscious choice. I would also like to hear how we are going to tackle one of the biggest debt items, namely subscriptions to mobile phones. What responsibilities do the Minister assign to the telecom providers? Do they have a responsibility to point out to young people the high cost of long-term subscriptions? Finally, I would like to hear how the Minister, especially for young people at the lower MBO level, is going to work on financial awareness. Can she promise me that before the summer there will be a thorough letter together with the parties involved: "Education, SLO and Nibud'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	I agree with Mrs Jadnansing that we must do everything we can to prevent this financial vulnerability, especially in the case of the group which is already vulnerable and which can have a strengthening effect, which leads to further debt. I refer once again to Wijzer in money matters, because that includes the financial sector. I am committed to shaping this together with interested parties. I also want to address this problem with my colleagues in Social Affairs and Finance, because they are about debt relief and they have contacts with banks about the possibilities of credit. I undertake to consult with them with the Wijzer platform in Money matters to see what we can do about it. I know that my colleague from Social Affairs is investigating young people's debts between 18 and 27 years of age. The intention is to come forward with a letter on this matter before the summer. I will see if there is any reason to join in from the perspective of Education. I believe that, as responsible directors, we must show initiative. We must do this together with civil society organisations, but each with its own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	I thank the Minister for her commitments. I hope that we can now really get to work on the talk about that money, because that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	It is a mistake that the Minister now uses MBO's rising debts as an argument for a calculation test. Then the question arises as to whether these debts will not be passed correctly by the calculation test, because many students will feel compelled to take expensive teaching to the test courses in order to successfully complete this strange, strange test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	No, I think we don't have to incur extra costs for teaching to the test, because what they need is good computational education. I have recently been with JOB, the youth organisation in the MBO, to see how things are going and what can be improved. We have always said that good mathematics is very important to be able to practice your profession, but also because you need basic skills to make good choices in life. One example that has been mentioned before is buying a mobile phone. Mrs Jadnansing did not refer to this for nothing. This is not the whole solution, but this can help to raise young people's financial awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	It is remarkable, however, that a Member of the Labour Party asks a Labour Minister's Party whether companies, parents and pupils should take their social responsibility and that the Minister then responds that they should do so. Then a note is promised. The problem of one in three MBO students being in debt is a problem which, by the way, is not today's but which we have been playing for about ten years. What will the Minister do to prevent MBO students from going into debt and student debt with one click of a mouse or increasing them significantly? Is it not time for the Minister to take real action to ensure that no debts arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	Perhaps it would be a good idea to consider whether or not MBOs have student debts. I would like to point out the many misunderstandings that I have also often heard from the SP young people that MBO students need to borrow and that they are covered by the study advance. That's not true. Students on MBO 1 and 2 levels are entitled to a gift. For MBO 3 and 4 the performance fair is valid as it used to be in higher education until recently. Only 18-year-olds can borrow and they have to do so consciously. I repeat that 10% of all MBOs borrow from DUO and that 20% of MBOs are entitled to study funding from DUO. Now all students who borrow from DUO, whether they are mbo- or ho-students, must do so consciously. That is a different problem than it is now. I have tried to point out that the increase in MBO debt is not primarily due to a study debt, but mainly to much more borrowing in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	So if those vulnerable mbos want to go to HBO after MBO, they're already in debt. If they live out, they will build up an additional €3,600 a year in HBO, thanks to the loan system of this minister. My question, however, is about the MBOs and their current debt. The Minister says that they use the money especially for consumer purposes. However, the Nibud says that their debt is primarily related to a study debt and that a loan is only contracted secondary to consumer goods. Why does the Minister present cases here that are not consistent with the results of the Nibud investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	Perhaps it would be a good idea to go into more detail in the letter I have just promised to Mrs Jadnansing. According to the Nibud study, an MBO's average total debt has tripled to €3,681. That amount is even higher if you stand red, count late payments and buy on payoff. The average amount borrowed monthly from DUO increased from €320 to €330 over the same period. Thus, the total debt has tripled, but DUO represents an increase of €10. This is largely explained by inflation. So that's not where the problem is. The largest cost is, of course, tuition, textbooks and living. However, this does not translate into the increased debts and loans made by MBO students at DUO. So the problem lies elsewhere, for example, as indicated, in the increase in the cost of telephone subscriptions and in the cost of cigarettes, going out and holidays. In that we have to find part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	I think the Minister is confusing two things. It is not the case that an MBO merely borrows from DUO for his study costs and livelihoods. That is not the case. Students borrow because they need money, at DUO but also at the bank. The Nibud has found that some 40% of the debts are explained by study costs. The livelihood, clothing and food, also stands for about 40%. The part the Minister constantly talks about is therefore rather small in the total debt item. The problem is that he's in normal life for the MBO student. Does the Minister recognize that? What exactly is it going to do to ensure that the rising loans for study costs are curbed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think I just promised this to Mrs Jadnansing. This calls for consultation with the colleagues of SZW and Finance. I'm here as Minister of Education. I'm gonna take over DUO and the loans students take out there. For the further loans they take, it is important that their financial awareness is increased in general, by parents, by banks or by anyone else. So we're going to see how we can make students clear with information, with calculation tools or with other ways that loans do have to be repaid. So if you're borrowing, you have to do it selectively. This is part of all the measures I have mentioned, in cooperation with the Nibud, the Wijzer platform in money matters and teachers in education. In the letter I have just promised, I would like to come back to the question of who can take responsibility for what.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
