ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u1	There are nine speakers. The first speaker is Mr Van Gerven of the SP Group. He's going to gladden us with a term of no less than 60 minutes in two parts. How much are you going to consume in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u2	Less than 60 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u3	40 at the most?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u4	40 minutes tops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u5	We're running the time at 40 minutes before the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u6	Mr. Chairman. Today we are finally discussing the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. The current laws provide for people with disabilities to have the same rights, opportunities and opportunities as any other individual. As far as SP is concerned, everyone must be fully accepted in our society, regardless of their limitation, age, background, ethnicity and so on. It is only natural that people with any limitations should have the same opportunities to participate in society. A country, certainly a rich country like the Netherlands, should be ashamed if people who have a disability cannot fully participate in society. Major steps still need to be taken for people with disabilities. In the field of housing, care, work, family, sport, public transport and public spaces, conditions must be created equivalent to conditions for people without restrictions. It is high time to strengthen the legal status and social status of people with disabilities. Since the 1980s, much attention has been paid worldwide to improving the position of people with disabilities. You're right. It was a long wait for the ratification of the present treaty. In 2011 my colleague Leijten tabled a motion for a quick ratification. Four years later, it is finally time for us to discuss these important legislative proposals. That brings me to my first question to the Secretary of State. After years of waiting, the Netherlands is one of the last three European countries to ratify this treaty. This shows that the ambition of the present cabinet is not very high on this issue. What exactly is the Secretary of State's ambition as a coordinating director to make the implementation of this treaty a success? The ambition to offer people with disabilities in our society equal opportunities compared to those without disabilities, and the ambition to offer them equal access to facilities and to society, must be a high priority in the coming years. However, the SP fears that the law will become a paper reality if, in addition to the adoption of the legislative proposals, a number of issues are not repaired in the public sector. Beautiful words cannot conceal the baldness that this cabinet has committed on our social and public services, which has caused people with disabilities to see their legal status and opportunities deteriorate. Can the Secretary of State explain how a person with a disability gets a better legal status when he has to enforce his care in court, because the municipality does not provide for this? Only in the first half of 2015 were there 80% more court cases on the Wmo than before. What better legal status does an 85-year-old lady who previously paid €19.40 per month as her own contribution for her home care, and now €44.75 per week? To what extent is the healthcare system accessible if more and more people with disabilities can no longer face their own risks and therefore refrain from caring? How does the Secretary of State assess the latest figures of the Nibud on the fact that in three years the number of people having problems with the high cost of care has doubled to 22%? What if a person with a disability needs treatment in a ggz setting, but is placed on the waiting list and is not accompanied further? How do we speak of an equivalent legal status if a 90-year-old man has been refused a stair lift by the municipality, because according to the municipality he should have seen his mobility decline? As long as the Secretary of State continues to regard people with disabilities as a cost, there will be no equivalent society for people with and without restrictions. I have asked the Secretary of State in the written preparation of this legislative procedure in detail how he stands in that regard. In response we get woolly language in which it says that municipalities have to comply with the Wmo and that there is therefore no problem. Reality cannot be brushed away with anointing words. If care and tools that people with disabilities need are reduced, they have a major problem. The Secretary of State previously wrote in his written reply: "Of course the government shares the view of the members of the SP Group that exclusion of people from society should be combated." But how can the Secretary of State write this when people are excluded from care and resources? What about a health insurance provider who decides that a tool is not necessary or that the provision is not the most effective variant, which literally restricts a person with a disability by choosing the health insurance provider? Let me give you an example. An insured person does not get a sports wheelchair while the person can work with it. An ordinary wheelchair is more efficient, read: cheaper. That's why the sports wheelchair isn't being reimbursed. Because it is important that people with or without restrictions receive the care and facilities they need, it is very important that the right to care and the right to individual services, such as youth care, domestic care, guidance, daily spending and aids, be restored. Restoring the right to care allows people with disabilities to participate in society and is not hampered by local obstacles. In the explanatory memorandum of the law, the Secretary of State wrote: "In the end, human rights are the main thread in the weighting of values as autonomy and good care." I think it would be logical for us to hear whether that is to be expected when the State Secretary embraces the amendment we are going to table on this point. In response to written questions from the SP, the State Secretary indicated that the existing legislation is not contrary to the Treaty. All existing legislation has been reviewed and reviewed. I think this is too short. I haven't been able to see how it was tested and who did this. Although the Secretary of State says that the existing legislation is not contrary to the Treaty, I have argued the opposite. Because of the blow from our public sector, the Secretary of State first took away all kinds of rights of people with disabilities. But now he says, "You'll get more rights." That's crooked, isn't it? On what basis was the test of all these laws done? Surely the Court should be able to judge what investigations and reviews of existing legislation have been carried out and whether they have been carried out correctly? That is why I would like to receive from the Secretary of State all checks on existing legislation. Can the Room receive it? I also ask the Secretary of State to send the Chamber the examination of the lower legislation in this respect. It often regulates matters that are very important for people with disabilities. I have a motion in preparation on this point. The Human Rights College is monitoring and implementing the Convention. It also considers whether existing legislation is contrary to the Treaty. Is the monitoring merely a monitoring or is it also a review? I am curious to see the precise role of the college at that point. I come to speak on the interpretative statements. The cabinet makes seven of them. That is to say, the cabinet explains parts of the treaty differently or more precisely than the treaty states. There's a lot of discussion about these seven "exceptions." First of all, I would like to ask how many other countries have drawn up so many detailed provisions. After all, we have noticed that the Netherlands has a lot in relation to other countries. There is also criticism of those statements. I'm passing a few of them, and I'd like a more detailed explanation of that by the Secretary of State. Article 10 is a statement on the right to life. I understand that the Secretary of State has made this statement as we ourselves have laws and regulations on unborn life, but for what precise reason does this interpretative statement need? I ask that because we have national legislation here. I understand that this legislation, at least according to the cabinet, is in line with the Treaty. There is obviously a field of tension; hence my question on this point. We have national legislation and we already have human rights conventions to which we have subscribed. Does the wording of the Convention on People with Disabilities provide more or less space, for example on the right to abortion or late termination of pregnancy? Is this explanatory interpretation therefore necessary? Can the government explain in plain Dutch what it means by Article 14? Is the UN Convention stricter than the Netherlands on allowing forced care for people with disabilities? Or isn't that right? Where exactly is the problem? The College of Human Rights criticises the statement in Article 23, which suggests that the importance of the unborn child may be an exception to the right to have children. Responsible or irresponsible parenting is also associated with having a restriction and intervention in the best interests of the child. The question is whether this is not contrary to the Treaty, as it is pointed out by the cabinet. In short: can the Secretary of State indicate what the treaty says and what exactly is the difference or difference in interpretation or interpretation that the Cabinet wishes to give to it? In Article 25, the government states that not everything that is possible in the healthcare sector can be included in the package. However, certain care facilities, such as physical therapy, are more important for people with disabilities than for people without disabilities. Relevant for people with disabilities is which parts of medically necessary care are not included in the basic package and also whether insurance via such supplementary insurance remains affordable for people with disabilities. Does the government share this analysis of the SP? And what does this mean in concrete terms, for example for laws and regulations that we have already agreed on, for example the Health Insurance Act, the Wlz, the Wmo and the Youth Act? I will only take this as a matter of concern, but of course we also have the Participation Act and other laws. So I also like to get an explanation of that. My final question about the interpretative explanations is: should I interpret it in such a way that, if we accept all these interpretations, everything remains exactly as we have agreed in national legislation? Or is there a deviation in the sense that it becomes stricter or less stringent? Would the Secretary of State also like to shed his light on this? After national remedies have been exhausted, the optional protocol provides for the possibility of lodging complaints with the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Committee shall monitor compliance with the Convention and shall also have the power to investigate serious and systematic violations of the Convention. The Committee may also request the Netherlands to take action if the above situations arise. Can the Secretary of State clarify this? How can people report to this committee? What kind of complaints do we have to think about? For example, can a person with a disability report if he or she, for example from the Wmo, does not receive certain tools but needs them? How is accessibility regulated for people who wish to report to this committee? After all, at the time the Treaty was signed, the government decided not to sign the optional protocol at the same time. The letter from Mr Koenders and Mr Van der Steur of June this year shows that the optional protocol is still the subject of discussion in the cabinet. Why does the government not want to sign this optional protocol? What is the motivation behind this? As a result of the Strike c.s. motion. I ask the Secretary of State when the government will sign the optional protocol. I have a motion ready for this. I'd like to get clarity from the Secretary of State on this point. If the optional protocol is not signed, can people go to the committee? What is the point of ratifying the Convention if the optional protocol is not signed? Are there any countries that have signed the optional protocol? Can the Secretary of State indicate which countries these are and why one country has made this assessment and another country another? I'm moving on to my own payments in care. The advance towards an accessible society for people with disabilities, a society in which they can fully participate, stands or falls with the thickness of the wallet. Does the Secretary of State agree that people need money to have access to society? I make this point because access to social and public services is under financial pressure. We hear daily stories of people who can no longer pay their own risk, who no longer pick up their medicines or who no longer dare to go to the hospital because of fear of a high bill. However, we also hear these stories from the people who use the Wmo. Many people have to deal with an increase in their own contributions, on the one hand, because the law on the benefit of chronically ill and disabled people under the rule of this State Secretary has been brutally abolished, on the other, because a number of municipalities have increased their own contribution. I'm making my compliments for We're getting up! We have spoken with these young adults with disabilities. Chapeau as they have shaped this. I will come back to this at the end of my speech and then I will hand it over to the Secretary of State through the chairman. If the conversation is about people with disabilities, it should not be about them but about them. Like no other, they have made clear what they are up against. Too often, in the discussion about own payments in healthcare, people with disabilities are forgotten about what additional costs they incur. In addition to its own risk and contributions, consideration should be given to the costs of hearing aids, medical pedicures, an auxiliary dog, orthopaedic shoes, a disabled parking card, etc. Some people have lost more than €3,000 per year in additional costs. In the book of We stand up! stands a bundle of personal stories. I ask the Secretary of State to answer those stories, and on the twelve theories of We stand up! In the end, this is the practical practice that young adults face every day. It is about access to all kinds of facilities, but also about their own contributions and the costs they incur. I repeat: if they have lost more than €3,000 more than people without restrictions, shouldn't that give thought? These stories are based on current laws and regulations and state of play. If we want to give people with disabilities the same conditions and opportunities as people without disabilities, it is the question of whether we should do something about this huge accumulation of extra costs. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a very close look at this and take action? The Secretary of State cannot get away with it by saying, for example, that we have invested a number of things with the municipalities or with other parties. It is, of course, a question of reality, of what this means for our people with disabilities. And those own payments have also been made crooked. You don't pay your own contribution to community care. For care in an institution you first pay a low own contribution and after a six months a high own contribution. And for care from the municipality you pay another contribution in each municipality, which can be higher or lower, and at best nothing is charged. Does the Secretary of State not agree that this has become very complicated, bureaucratic and unfair? The SP has asked several times for a financial feasibility test after that own contribution to the care. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take that test now? That would be a credit to him, especially if we were to implement this treaty after it has been dealt with. I assume that the Chamber will adopt it either by a large majority or unanimously. That creates expectations and obligations. That is why I would like to hear from the Secretary of State the undertaking that he intends to take that test. It is not possible for a person with a disability living in a residential facility to have no more than pocket and clothing money. Such a person has €300 to spend per month. If the health insurance, the telephone subscription and that sort of thing still have to be done, there will be very little left. Can these people buy a present for friends? Can these people throw a party sometime without having to sell tickets? Surely such a situation does not relate to the intention or intention of this treaty? I would like to propose to the Secretary of State to improve and facilitate access to care. Why should we not in principle abolish our own contribution, with the exception of those with restrictions who are staying in an institution for more than one year under the Long-Term Care Act, the Health Insurance Act or the Wmo? That is a very simple starting point, which would create a lot of clarity and remove a lot of bureaucracy, misery and dishonesty. What's that got to do with it? If you look at the numbers, something in the order of 2 billion. That's 3% of the total cost of care. If we fund this collectively, it would save a huge amount of bureaucracy, and it would make the position of people with disabilities much more equal. Now for another point: the Tickets Act. The SP considers it very important that people with disabilities be given the opportunity to vote in elections. That is not yet optimally regulated. I think it is important that people with visual impairment or people who are deaf blind should be given the opportunity to vote. There are undoubtedly good opportunities to give these people the opportunity to vote, for example via Braille or a voice printer. The Secretary of State stated in his written reply that a new ballot is being worked on, which can be used by blind and partially sighted voters. What's the status? When can the Court expect further information? I have a motion on this in preparation. Access to voting rooms is also an important point for the SP Group. The accessibility of voting rooms has been examined on the days of the elections for the Provincial States and for the waterboards and has been evaluated. At that time, only the polling stations designated by the municipalities themselves were examined as fully accessible. It was found that 10 of the 54 polling stations were actually accessible. This is an improvement compared to the 2014 elections and earlier, because at that time, it appears that no voting room met the accessibility criteria. However, it is clear that major steps still need to be taken. Is the Secretary of State prepared to significantly increase the accessibility of voting rooms for people with disabilities in ten years? Maybe we can do it faster, because ten years seems like a very generous term. This means, therefore, that great steps need to be taken. Appropriate education is a crucial theme for people with disabilities. Some students in the Netherlands cannot go to school full-time because of their illness. For example, a cancer student may have to take all courses in one grade. If he doesn't get all the classes, he'll stay put. It is not possible at each school to take part of the courses in the first and the other part in the following year. That has to change. There are also students who can go to school less than 50% of their education time. It is still impossible for them to go to school for just one or two days. That's not an appropriate education, so I suggest the Secretary of State. I understand that the Secretary of State must consult his colleagues on this, but if we are going to have to give people with disabilities full access to education, we will need tailor-made work. What are we gonna do about this? The social workshops and work are another important issue. The introduction of the Participation Act has closed the influx of social workshops and further strengthened the access requirements for the Wajong. As a result of this introduction, many young people with disabilities have been given assistance. It is not known how large this group is, but the SP gets reports about this. People who were on the waiting list at the end of 2014 are still out of work. Existing companies are dismantled due to shortages in municipalities. This policy has restricted access to employment and social workshops. How does the ratification of the present Convention prevent such situations? How does this ensure that people with disabilities can get back to work in regular work or through a social workshop? I would now like to comment on housing and housing. The SP has already expressed its concerns about the large shortages of suitable care homes for the elderly and people with disabilities. Moreover, the new requirement in the Housing Act provides that people with a disability who have a care demand and low income no longer have a chance to live in care. How does this relate to the strengthening of the legal position of people with disabilities? What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? I would also like to draw attention to the construction decisions. It sets fewer and fewer standards. How do we prevent the focus on accessibility from disappearing in the design and construction of buildings and infrastructure? After all, everyone will understand that it would be preferable for a house to be built accessible from the outset, rather than to be made accessible later. I would like to make a few comments on public transport. Many people who are wheelchair-bound prefer not to use the train. That's not so crazy either. After all, it would happen to you: you are in a wheelchair and want to take the train. You're booking backup to help you get on and off the train. Then it is not ready at the destination. Close the doors and you're on your way to another destination, where you don't want to be. What are you gonna do? I understand why people with disabilities don't want to travel by train, because you can't go anywhere spontaneously. After all, you have to book assistance on time, which is often not reliable and also available on just a few stations. We have heard several times that people are not helped on the train or, even more annoyingly, are not helped out. Although from 2023 the platforms and new trains should be on the ground floor, the problem is that the intercity's are only accessible from 2045 onwards. An entire generation can't take the train on its own for another 30 years and has to do so. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. I also want to talk about the taxi bus for people with disabilities. The taxi bus that keeps people waiting hours and hours until he shows up. The other day, a lady with a limitation told me that she had to wait two to three hours a day before the taxi bus picked her up. We also got a report of a lady who got bad luck in the rain with her scooter. She called, her scooter was picked up, but they left her in the rain. Really, this is happening. Eventually, the repair company dropped her off in town, but that's not how we deal with each other, is it? Then I come to Valys transport, the few kilometres that people with disabilities get a year. That's not much. Your family lives on the other side of the Netherlands? Then you're out of luck. One visit per year is allowed according to the mileage. To make it even cheaper: combining your journey with the train is a lot cheaper. But it's also a lot more miserable. Public transport, as I have already said, is by far inaccessible to people with disabilities. My question to the Secretary of State is: do you ever take the tram in The Hague? Lots of trams, not all of them, have stairs to get in. That is not possible for people who are badly on their feet, let alone for those who own the rollers or wheelchairs. What concrete measures will the Secretary of State take in the short and long term in the field of transport in order to eliminate these bottlenecks as far as possible? Then I have a question about financial services. The Secretary of State previously stated in his written reply that, when providing financial services, direct distinction is prohibited on the basis of a restriction or chronic illness. However, insurance companies may, when providing financial services, take account of health risks and, on that basis, ask for a higher premium or refuse to take out insurance. Insurers are therefore not obliged to apply for the same premium from people with and without disabilities. How does this relate to the legal status of people with disabilities which the Secretary of State claims to want to strengthen through this treaty? Then I come to public spaces like a library, a school, a concert hall and the House of Representatives. It goes without saying that public space is open to everyone and it is good that steps are taken in this respect, but often these things are not thought out in advance on the drawing board. Suppose someone is in a wheelchair using a public toilet and the turn is too small or the crane too high. They're often small things, but they're very important to people with disabilities. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how we go to 100% fully accessible buildings and facilities. Then I come to another point, namely terminology. Several patient and client organisations have indicated that they prefer to change the term "disability" to the term "limitation." Although the Secretary of State does not want to do so, the Netherlands has the freedom to change this term. It is not a matter of life and death, of course, but is the Secretary of State prepared to change this? It is about shaping this policy together with them, or with us, and terminology is often a core of respect and appreciation. Then I come to the plan of action and the vision. I assume it doesn't surprise the Secretary of State that we were very disappointed in his plan of action. The vision is there, that's good. Why, however, has the Secretary of State particularly outlined procedural matters, without developing concrete measures and a timetable? Other countries, for example, have done so. For example, Germany has a ten-year plan of action with more than 200 implementation targets, structured over twelve areas of action and seven topics. No doubt the Secretary of State has looked at these examples, but why, for example, did he not follow the path of Germany? Or is he willing to do that after all? Concrete goals that can be taken into account, goals that we can hold the government to and which we can also promise to society, bring us further and further a step closer to the goal of an equal society of both people with disabilities and people without disabilities. That accessible society must now become a reality. Significantly, I found the hearing on the treaty in the First Chamber. A lady who participated in the hearing had taken her own deaf interpreter. If she hadn't, we'd have missed her contribution and she'd have missed ours. So no matter how much we talk about accessibility, no one in the Lower House had come to the idea that someone who is deaf needs an interpreter and we ourselves also because otherwise we do not understand the contribution of the person who participates in sign language. This is just a practical example, but aren't these things things that could and should be dealt with in a plan of action? When can we expect these measures in concrete terms, with a timetable? What about the formation of the administrative consultation and the Platform Inclusion? In the autumn, a quarter of an hour maker would start working on this. Who's that quartermaster anyway? Is there now working with the principle of "nothing about us without us," nothing about us without us? It was the express wish that people with disabilities should not be the subject of discussion, but that they themselves should have a say in that discussion. What's the status? Can the Secretary of State state state what's going on with this? I also have a number of questions about the responsibility of the Secretary of State for the implementation of this Convention. If the Convention is ratified, how does the Secretary of State deal with his coordinating and legal responsibility if a claim is filed if the Convention is not complied with? The Secretary of State is systemally responsible, but if he does not accept this responsibility for the Wmo, for example, how can he take responsibility for the whole and ensure that it is properly implemented? I'll come to a conclusion. Making society accessible to people with disabilities has everything to do with the mentality in society. It is particularly important for policy makers at all political levels to take account of people with disabilities. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that this is done by policy makers and that they understand that accessibility is seen at more than a threshold or a disabled toilet? How is this handled in municipalities and provinces? Does the Secretary of State have any idea of possible blind spots in public administration or in society when it comes to accessibility? Can the Secretary of State explain this? Can he indicate where the priority should be as far as he's concerned? I would like to say to the Secretary of State, and I think I can say this to him partly on behalf of the people with disabilities: we should not talk about them, we should talk to them. To illustrate this, I hand over this manifesto, a personal collection of stories, through the chairman to the Secretary of State. I call on the Secretary of State to respond to the twelve proposals of We stand up! Into.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u7	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u8	We will ensure that the Secretary of State receives this manifesto.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u9	Mr. Chairman. I see that there is a sign interpreter in the public gallery; I also see people in wheelchairs, people who are blind and people who have nothing wrong at all. I see a reflection of the Netherlands. I think that is a good and symbolic way to start this debate. That is the way it should be: people with and without restrictions are following this debate together. Today is a special moment for the Netherlands and for people with disabilities in the Netherlands. After all, we are discussing the UN Convention on Rights for People with Disabilities. Finally. The PvdA has long insisted that the Netherlands should work with this treaty, because it is an important treaty. People with disabilities should be able to participate in society as much as possible, as well as people without disabilities. Personally, I think it's a special moment. Until I was 18, I could go anywhere and stand without obstacles. I walked into every building, got on the train and didn't have to plan anything in advance. After my accident, I experienced that as a person with a disability, you encounter a lot of obstacles, even as a mature citizen. Sometimes that is the case, but too often barriers are really unnecessary. Let's finally do something about that. Already during my maiden speech I talked about the importance of being able to participate. I remember that moment, three years ago, well. I couldn't hold my maiden speech from behind this chair at the time. I was sitting right next to the chairman, because the plenary room was not suitable for a parliamentarians in a wheelchair. The doors to this room were so heavy, I couldn't open them. The interrupt microphone could not go down far enough and the speaker seat, where I am now, could not be set to my height. It took a while, but it was modified so I could just do my job as a Member of Parliament. Perhaps this is a good example that shows what is going on in our country. We often think that everything is well arranged and that everyone can, of course, participate. However, in everyday practice this often turns out to be quite disappointing. It says something about how we have long looked at people with disabilities in the Netherlands. That may not have gone consciously, but inclusion is not really in our genes yet. If, of course, even our parliament, the place of all Dutch people, is not easily accessible, there is still a world to be won. That's right, and that's what we're gonna do today. For the PvdA, ratification of the UN Convention is not just a legislative proposal. It's not just putting a scribble under a treaty, amending the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of disability or chronic illness and adjusting the Tickets Act. This bill is about much more. It's about what kind of society we want to be, it's about justice, it's literally and figuratively about accessibility. It's about containment and exclusion. It's a human rights treaty. We show that we are not just saying that everyone can participate, but that we really want to make that legal. To make it even practical: what is it about in ordinary life? Shopping at the supermarket or visiting a museum or a park; shopping and staying overnight in a hotel or just going to work in the morning. Those are the most normal things in the world, but unfortunately often not for people with disabilities, sitting in wheelchairs, being blind or being able to come along a little more difficult because of an intellectual disability. Every day they face various, for most people invisible, obstacles. In fact, it is incomprehensible that we have still not arranged for a person with a disability to be able to participate as fully as someone without a disability. It's not gonna happen on its own. The treaty that we are discussing today came into force in 2006. We are now almost ten years away, and I know from my own experience that not much has been improved. So ratification is not a technical act that we are doing here today, but a necessity. Because without the law, it's not gonna happen. I told you: at first glance it seems as if we have arranged things quite well in the Netherlands and if we are very busy. Actually, that's just appearance, because we're doing something crazy, too. If a school isn't accessible, we'll build a separate school. If ordinary public transport is not available for someone with a wheelchair, we leave a separate wheelchair van behind a semi-empty local bus. That's not what the PvdA wants. We want a society where we meet, literally. We want a society where you're on the bus with someone with disabilities, where you just live together in the same neighborhood and where you go to the same school as much as possible. We want a society in which your disability or limitation does not determine that you are the exception, but in which it is natural that you simply participate. How many people are we talking about, just to get a picture? Let me give you some numbers. 2.3 million people with disabilities live in the Netherlands. About 800,000 of them have serious restrictions. I call people who are in wheelchairs, people who are deaf, people who are blind or visually impaired, people who have a chronic illness that hinders them in everyday life or people with intellectual disabilities. That's a lot of Dutch people. Those are people who want to participate, but who do not do so by themselves, because they encounter literally and figuratively thresholds. Moreover, the number of older people with the current ageing population will also increase considerably in the coming years. Old age often comes with defects. All in all, therefore, there are a lot of people who now and later have to deal with accessibility. Research has been carried out by the organisation Ongehinderd.nl on the accessibility of West-Brabant. There is no positive picture of that, I can say. Public transport, sports accommodation, shops and restaurants often prove to be inaccessible in more than half or in more than two thirds of cases. The research to which LOC refers in his letter shows that students with disabilities are much more frequent. Five times as many students with disabilities fall out compared to their non-disabled students. They don't graduate, they don't graduate, they turn out to be unemployed more often. They cannot use their talents, live their lives as they wish, and become dependent on benefits. The same applies to employment, according to CBS figures. The employment rate of people with disabilities is half as high as that of people without disabilities: 35% versus 66%. And I could give you many more examples. But by ratifying the UN Convention, we are taking an important step. By this we say that we want an accessible, inclusive society in our country, a society in which everyone counts, in which we do not arrange matters separately for people with disabilities, not as an exception, but that we set up our general facilities in such a way that everyone can make use of them: people with disabilities and people without disabilities. But it's not gonna happen by itself, I told you. This requires a number of things to be done. This means that buildings, public transport and public space must be accessible to all. It means a labour market where it is normal for people with disabilities to work, where possible. It means inclusive education. At a young age, children with disabilities and children without disabilities learn to interact with each other. And it means thinking in solutions rather than general accessibility as a problem. I think it is a wonderful task to work on such an inclusive society. It's not just about vision, it's also a legal treatment. We must also make practical arrangements for this. I would like to put five issues at the centre of this legal process. First of all, how do we arrange an accessible society? Secondly, how do we make a plan of action that is more concrete? Thirdly, how do we involve people with disabilities in the implementation of the UN Convention and in politics? Fourthly, how do we deal with ethical issues? I am referring in particular to the interpretative explanations. And as a fifth, how do we raise awareness and create a cultural change in our society? I want to start with one of the most practical things. How do we ensure that the Netherlands is accessible to people with disabilities? If you can't get in somewhere, you can't get in. For many people who are watching this debate, this is probably very recognizable. When you're in a wheelchair, you run into a lot of obstacles. Stairs at the entrance to a museum, a sidewalk without access and exit; only one in four train stations in our country is suitable for people in wheelchairs. And not the people with disabilities encounter these obstacles, but many more people, for example people with prams, suffer from them. It's really weird that we're also accepting this inconvenience and inaccessibility. Let's just finally do something about it. The Netherlands is hopelessly behind in terms of accessibility. In other countries you can see how things can be different, for example in America. You can go in there with a wheelchair just anywhere. If you're blind, there's amenities. It's settled by law. The Americans with Disabilities Act made a huge breakthrough in the accessibility of facilities for people with disabilities in 1990. Mind you, 1990 and we're still talking about it now, it's 2015! In America, the majority of public buildings, restaurants, hotels, museums, parks, public transport and so on have adapted effortlessly to accessibility for all. Only if that leads to unreasonable adjustments doesn't have to be. For example, when it comes to a historically unadjustable building or when the cost of adapting something is really bizarrely high. Other countries, too, have introduced or are in the process of introducing accessibility into their legislation. I am thinking of Norway, Spain and England. We can also learn from this approach in the Netherlands. Because who doesn't want that, a society that is accessible to everyone? The PvdA wants accessibility to become the norm in the Netherlands and inaccessibility to be the exception. I think that's really inclusive thinking. Isn't that what we all want? That is why I tabled an amendment with GroenLinks and the Christian Union to extend the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of disability or chronic illness to regulate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u10	Mr Van Dijk talks about accessibility for people with disabilities in society. He's mainly talking about buildings. I ask him questions about access to society as a whole. The Cabinet, of which the PvdA is a member, removed the compensation of the level of its own risk, increased its own risk and abolished the compensation for chronically ill persons with disabilities. For municipalities, it is unclear what will happen. The care premium is rising. Own payments increased, mainly in the area of the Wmo. Less fees, more side payments. Does Mr Van Dijk really think that this cabinet will provide people with disabilities with sufficient financial resources so that they can actually participate and their access to society is or is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u11	That is a good question from Mr Van Gerven, because participation in society requires a great deal. This requires that you go to school and receive inclusive education, that you can get to work or school by public transport, and that you get a job as much as possible, so that you can put your talents to maximum use. This includes income, care and support. I'll get back to you in a minute. I see that many things are going well, but a number of things really are not yet as we are aiming for. Betting on customization, getting close to people, I do support wholeheartedly. I think people's commitment to participation is very good. The same side of the coin is that you set that society up so that people can get away with it. That's what my plea was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u12	The plea is beautiful, but the reality is very different. I have just mentioned all these measures, which have caused a great deal of damage to the direct income position of people with disabilities. Beautiful words alone are no use to us. So we are also talking about actions. I've got the Manifesto of We on! (Parliament agreed to the The examples show that people with disabilities have lost €2,000 to €3,000 more than people without disabilities. Repentance comes after sin, so is the PvdA willing to do something about those own payments that seriously hinders the full participation in the society of people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u13	My whole plea is aimed at being able to participate fully and independently in society. You will hear that in the rest of my speech. Some people are going to participate automatically, even with a limitation, while others need support, for example financially. I think we should arrange something like this in a decent country like the Netherlands. I agree with Mr Van Gerven that this needs to be improved in a number of places, although he testifies to only looking at financial income without paying attention to people's own opportunities to work, to make people part of society when it comes to culture, sport and accessibility. This treaty is about so much more. I honestly hope that Mr Van Gerven will agree with me. Of course, we must ensure adequate financial compensation and arrangements. There are. They just need to be better deployed. I'd be sorry if we let this be overshadowed by just sourness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u14	Not that that's the ideal bridge to my question, but still... I think Mr Van Dijk wanted to say something about his amendment. I have a question about that right away. I read the amended amendment. Speaking of general amenities, are you talking about basic amenities? I am referring to general provisions that should be widely accessible. Mr Van Dijk just said that the group of people with disabilities and/or chronic illness is very diverse. What increases accessibility for one person can reduce the same accessibility for another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u15	That's a good question, and I'm going into the block where I'm now. I can answer the question with yes, and I'll work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u16	Let's hear it now. If Mrs Bergkamp has another question, she'll be back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u17	I think that's a good plan. But let me ask my second question so that Mr Van Dijk can include that question in his contribution. VNO-NCW has concerns about legal inequality within SMEs and higher costs. Isn't a baker being duped by one grumpy gentleman in a wheelchair? Can Mr Van Dijk take this into account in his contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u18	Yes. I have arrived at my amendment to lay down accessibility as a standard and inaccessibility as an exception, which I have also tabled on behalf of the Christian Union and GroenLinks. By doing so, we are legally establishing that we are going for accessibility. Not only if someone asks for it, but because we take it for granted and for granted. Suppliers of goods and services will then have to make provision for this. Often small adjustments are possible to ensure that people with disabilities can also get out of their way. What do you have to think about? A shelf in front of the door or raising the sidewalk so that people can enter your shop or your catering company. Or training your staff to deal with people who are blind, for example. Or if you order the construction of a new website for your company, include the web accessibility guidelines. Of course, I have added an exception to the amendment, as we see it abroad. If that leads to unreasonable applications, then of course it doesn't have to. We know the bullshit examples: a supermarket that should make all shelves up to a meter high, because there are very small people. Or an entrepreneur who can just keep his head above water in a shopping street with lots of empty buildings and is forced to remodel his entire property. We don't want to. Or a restaurant that needs customized cutlery for people with disabilities? You don't have to do that either. The latter can take people with you. No, it's not about that. Because we want adjustments for an inclusive society, but we are going to regulate it fairly and gradually. It is therefore a reasonable combination of physical accessibility, design for all and treatment. Unfortunately, in the legislative proposal, the government has not chosen to include general measures aimed at accessibility for all. I think that's a missed opportunity. There is now only provision for an adjustment to be made if someone asks for it. You'll still be the exception as a disabled person and you'll still have to beg a little bit to get involved. And the burden of proof lies with you, not with a supplier of goods and services. The Coalition for Inclusion says that in practice this leads to illogical and half-policy. I agree. It doesn't lead to real inclusion. The way in which, for example, public transport is included in the Equal Treatment Act, chronically ill and disabled people, shows that this law is well suited to providing general services that ensure gradual access for all. The UN Convention on this issue also requires countries to take general measures to ensure that society is accessible to all its citizens. The implementation and importance of accessibility are described in particular in the first article and therefore the first paragraph of the UN Convention and in the recent General Comment No. 2. The establishment of facilities in an individual case is seen as an addition to general facilities where they are not sufficient. They can be basic. You can have the individual provision as a specific supplement to that. However, the Government's proposed amendment to the Equal Treatment Act does not exempt the government from taking general measures. That is also what the College of Human Rights says in its comments. Consultation with interested parties is not enough; concrete measures are needed. Unfortunately, despite endless discussions, they remain out. Last week, the European Commission also published the European Accessibility Act. This proposal, based on the UN Convention, requires general accessibility requirements for a wide range of goods and services in the European Union. The European Commission also sees this as an opportunity for business rather than a threat. That's how the PvdA sees it. Any person with a disability is also a consumer, an employee or an employer, and can contribute to society as well as to the economy. We in the Netherlands really need to change that mindset. I also think that individual adaptation is more expensive and much more complex than gradually making society accessible to all. The more accessible our society is to everyone, the less individual facilities we need. In Finland, a number of things have been written about this. Although the Finnish policy programme is very ambitious, the Finnish government does not expect it to lead to many additional costs. To achieve this, there is an active commitment to mainstreaming, as is called, of disability policy, i.e. general accessibility. In addition, it is mainly the smarter use of available resources. I think it is high time we did the same in the Netherlands. The time of separate is over, the time of inclusion is upon us. Not because we have to, but above all because we just want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u19	Thank you for Mr Van Dijk's plea. I have a question about the word 'care' in the amendment. In his speech, Mr Van Dijk gave a number of interpretations, including from other countries, which are appealing; clever use, look differently. The word "conductivity" also falls. However, it is a legal treatment, as was also noted. For me, it is important for the weighting of the amendment to know what "care" means. Is this, in other legal terms, "targeting" or is this an obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u20	"Wearing care" is a legal term that is not non-binding. So it is actually expected that entrepreneurs will make their opportunity or their website accessible to the people. There is, however, a reasonable provision to ensure that this obligation or non-binding does not lead to situations that are undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u21	Okay, that's an answer that goes more towards obligation than towards ambition. Mr Van Dijk states that there is reasonableness in it and he also uses the word 'conductivity'. Do I understand correctly that those who are given the obligation must also prove that it is not possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u23	Another question about the amendment is important to me. In his speech Mr Van Dijk gave a number of examples of museums, libraries and public transport. Those are indeed things that, because they are in the public domain, are a prerequisite for people's participation. Here we also talk about entrepreneurs, so the private domain. What makes Mr Van Dijk say that, even if it is the private domain in which people have more choices than in the public domain, he still fulfils that obligation, despite the fact that organisations have said within the framework of the plan of approach that they will be committed to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u24	I'll be back in a minute to discuss the plan of action. 'Cause I'm not too fond of that. I do not see that what is on the table provides a sufficient basis for concrete action. In other words, the plan of action, making it concrete, can also help to implement the standard that I have included in my amendment. In that sense, it could be a continuation of the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u25	I think it is very clear that Mr Van Dijk has made it clear that general provisions must also be made. It is important that this is taken seriously, but I do wonder what key this should be placed in. It is now presented as an individual right not to be discriminated against. Is it sufficiently determined and sufficiently precise to what everyone has to keep? Let me return to an example mentioned by Mr Van Dijk himself. He was talking about the custom cutlery. Is it now clear what you can expect from a restaurant and what someone themselves is supposed to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u26	I very much believe in reasonableness on this point. Should it be necessary to give a more detailed explanation, the General Measure of Management, which is also linked to it, offers the possibility to further elaborate on this. That combination of reasonableness and a General Measure of Governance makes me not afraid that crazy things will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u27	I am not only concerned with crazy things, but also with legal certainty. If it is formulated in such a general way and if there is as much discussion as possible about what to expect when it actually takes the form of an individual right for which you can go to committee and then go to court, do you not get a huge judicialisation and huge legal discussions as a result of this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u28	We state in the law that we believe that the Netherlands should be accessible, unless that is unreasonable. We are indeed imposing a legal standard on our society, but I think that is also what we want. We want society to be more accessible. We do not want unreasonable situations and legalisation, but in a number of cases it will really lead to statements by the College of Human Rights. It will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u29	I used to work in a restaurant. We were very happy to be as accessible as possible. There was a nice stone driveway and a nice disabled toilet. We also had a big map for people who were a little older and who became partially sighted. As an entrepreneur, of course, you do a lot to serve your audience. In that company, however, so could it, because it was a large company with a large parking lot and wide corridors. It was all possible to serve the client with a limitation. I heard Mr Van Dijk on the radio this morning saying that it's all so much better in America. In America, of course, you have a lot of housemalls and a lot of big business. There is something different there than in the Netherlands. That's actually what my question is about. After all, we live in a country with many seventeenth-century buildings, with very small cafes and very small restaurants. In fact, Mr Van Dijk's amendment extends so far that they too have to do all kinds of antics. Has Mr Van Dijk realised how far his amendment goes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u30	Yeah, I definitely realized that. This is also apparent from the fact that the example mentioned by Mrs Agema is set out in the explanatory statement and that it is therefore not necessary. An exception is possible for historical buildings at that time. I can also refer to what is laid down in the Environment Act. So I do not agree that it would lead to antics and unreasonableness. Again, until the unreasonable is held no one at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u31	I find that very vague. I have every confidence that any entrepreneur who can do so will take care of what Mr Van Dijk is asking for. What is Mr Van Dijk's idea based on that the entrepreneur who can arrange it is not doing it yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u32	We do not do it often, but I would almost say that perhaps Mrs Agema and I should just go out together. Then you see that there is a lot to do in this country compared to other countries. I will not do that to her, but there is still such a world to be won in this country that I would not want to say that it will be okay by itself. In fact, that's not gonna work itself out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u33	I have had the pleasure of going out to dinner with Mr Van Dijk and I was shocked by the blockades we found on our way to a cozy table. My question concerns a clarification of the words 'general provision'. It is important for everyone to have a more concrete picture of this. I believe that Mr Van Dijk has indicated that these are basic provisions which are accessible to a broad group. In addition, individual effective adjustments can be made which are more complex. It's about customization. Since the debate is part of the legal process, I would like to have a very clear response to it. Is it true that when it comes to the general provision, it is basic provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u34	I can't put it any shorter: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u35	That's a very nice reaction. It's clear, and I'm happy about that. I have a second question. The general law on equal treatment for people with disabilities is about individual cases. That's what the College's looking at. This is another system we're going to build in. The Human Rights College should also take a preventive look at the situation in a number of sectors. During the budget discussion we tabled an amendment together with GroenLinks to increase the budget for the College of Human Rights. When I read Mr Van Dijk's amendment, its application means extra work for the College. I think we should assume that. Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that we should therefore seriously consider whether the College of Human Rights can do so with the existing formation and budget? Is he prepared to take a serious look at a motion that we may be tabling for it? Now Mr Van Dijk must not say that he looks at everything seriously, but I hope he will at least support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u36	If we really want to implement this treaty, it is also about behavior. This means that in the end the Human Rights College should also be equipped for this purpose, both for the individual facilities and the monitoring task. My answer to the question is yes. Of course, I will look at the text first, but we still have to settle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u37	All the interruptions by my fellow Members show that this is a subject on which there are a lot of questions to ask. I read in the amendment that general accessibility needs to be ensured. I hear Mr Van Dijk saying that they are basic amenities, but they can of course also be very large facilities. Its aim is to lay down a general standard. How does it relate, for example, to rules on access to buildings, new buildings or to construction? What does it mean before that? The legislation that applies to this, the Building Decision, is very strict when it comes to accessibility. When I read this like this, I can read it as: okay, this is in the Building Decision. Someone can then find that in his situation that general accessibility is not guaranteed and report to the College of Human Rights and then to the judge. How does Mr Van Dijk see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u38	Mrs Keijzer outlines the way we work as we do with the Equal Treatment Act. What we are putting into this law is what we want. We want an accessible society, don't we? I'm assuming the CDA will, too. With that, you look for a standard in the law that makes that possible, because it doesn't happen by itself. We have heard and seen examples of this, also in the run-up to the ratification of this Treaty. You're looking for a place in the law for that. This can be further completed with a General Measure of Governance. It is the system as it applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u39	This is law enforcement. So we need to look carefully at what we are legally regulating and what the consequences are. I asked Mr Van Dijk whether this means a provision which could overrule the Building Decision, which is lower regulation. Yes, we want accessibility, we all want accessibility, but we have to be careful what the consequences are. I would like to hear an answer to this question. I also took a look at Danish legislation in order to complete it in one interruption. Denmark is also a country that can be said to be doing well. There too, certain issues are included in the legislation. For ICT, for example, it states that all ICTs will only have to meet accessibility requirements by 2021. Should I now read this article as a standard that goes straight into the moment the king has signed it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u40	Of course, that would be nice, but we didn't realize that with one fingernip. The explanatory statement to the amendment also states that it should not only be reasonable, but that we can also do it gradually. So, no, it doesn't have to be arranged all at once once once the king has signed his signature. But in the normal course of things, for example, when you develop a new website or do other things, you simply take this along with other laws and regulations, such as the Building Decision. Of course, it's not like this is overruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u41	But when I read Article 2a, as proposed by Mr Van Dijk, I see that the person concerned is "need to"; that is what we all agree on for general accessibility. With this you lay down a general standard for all kinds of different forms. Well, that's the norm, then. So citizens can appeal to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u42	Yes, because we really want an inclusive and accessible society with each other. But if it's unreasonable, it doesn't have to be. It doesn't have to be right, with one fingernip. If we expect people to participate in society, which we want, then we really need to take concrete steps. In countries that have regulated it legally, it goes faster and better than if you leave it to the free will of the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u43	Clear. We have also heard Mr Van der Staaij, but he is trying again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u44	It is now a new element. Since it is an important amendment which already has broad support in the Chamber, it is important for the legal history to determine the scope as precisely as possible. Article 2 of the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of Disability or Chronic Disease already uses roughly the same wording. It states that "the person to whom this prohibition is addressed is obliged to make effective adjustments according to the need." That is the current wording: 'to make effective adjustments'. I am asking a question on this side: what is really wrong with this wording, which is already in the law, namely that if there is a need for it, adjustments must actually be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u45	Mr Van der Staaij raises a very fundamental question. The current paragraph 2 assumes that you must ask for an adjustment, for a provision. As a person with a disability you are and always remain the exception. In the new Article 2a it is assumed that there is a basic word I repeat that word is a form of general accessibility that we have just regulated in this country and where as a person with a disability you do not have to ask: make an adjustment for me. You can just go in somewhere. You can simply use a website at some point. It may be that that basic adjustment isn't enough for you. Article 2 therefore remains relevant. Then, in your particular situation, there may be an individual adjustment according to the need. The big difference is: the current Article 2 is based on "you have to ask for it, you are the exception," while the proposed Article 2a is based on inclusion, of a society that is inclusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u46	"Basal" is now added. I don't read that in the article. "Basal" also raises many questions: what is basic and what is not basic in general amenities? Apart from that, the legal text now states that there must be a certain need for effective adjustments. It does not necessarily have to be done on request, according to the letter of the law, but there must be a need for it. Let me put it very sharply: does this amendment mean that you must also invest in order to create all kinds of very special facilities for a very broad audience, whether it is needed or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u47	The answer to that is: no, you don't have to. These are general forms of accessibility, including a provision of reasonableness and graduality. It's about a shelf in front of the door. It is about the trams that Mr Van Gerven mentioned and at the door of which I stood this morning in the NOS Journal. Not all trams need to be replaced at once, but the new trams we buy, you can just go in. This type of general accessibility remains or needs to be realised. In that case, people may still be unable to use public transport, for whatever reason, and in such a case, a specific provision needs to be made as necessary. Now, however, we want to define this general accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u48	I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk's speech on general accessibility. In my opinion, the building of the Lower House, and also the building of the Upper Chamber, should also be generally accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u50	Especially the building of the First Chamber leaves much to be desired. Here in the House of Representatives there is still plenty to do.I will come back to that in a moment.But certainly the building of the House of Representatives leaves a lot to be desired. For example, a journalist who's in a wheelchair doesn't come up with the press gallery. If the people currently sitting in the public gallery would also like to attend the treatment in the First Chamber, some of them will not be able to attend the public gallery. How does Mr Van Dijk feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u51	I do not often use the word "shame," but in this case I think it can be used sincerely. Now it is a coincidence that we are going to remodel the tent and that a debate will be held tomorrow in the Chamber. I can tell you that Agnes Wolbert, the spokesperson of the PvdA, will bring out the accessibility of this complex, which is all of us, as one of the most important elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u52	Of course, I am very pleased with that, but this renovation will only take place in a number of years, assuming that there will be a majority for the renovation plans. I hope that the ratification of the Treaty will be discussed in the First Chamber in January or February next. Of course, that doesn't help these people. What does this mean for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u53	Actually, that's a pretty good question. If I and other people in a wheelchair would like to follow that debate, the ground floor of the First Room is quickly full, because you can't go to the public gallery in a wheelchair. So that is a very good question, which the First Chamber should also consider when it comes to dealing with this law. Perhaps Mrs Voortman has suggestions for this in her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u54	That is what we hear in her term. We'll keep it exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u55	It's gonna be a cliff hanger. I understand that there is a lot of discussion on this point, because it is a really fundamental amendment. We are not just putting a comma or a point. As far as I am concerned, it is a question of whether we want to make our country accessible in the end and whether we dare to take steps in this context, as is happening abroad, or whether we leave it a little by way of exceptions. However, accessibility is not just about literal thresholds. It is also about information thresholds. For people with visual or auditory disabilities, but also for people with slightly intellectual disabilities, the ability to read and understand information is often very difficult. You can't read a letter from the city if you're blind. You can read a message on a website or read it via Braille. It appears that the majority of municipal websites do not comply with the web accessibility guidelines. There's gotta be another way. We want the government to encourage as much accessible information as possible. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? How does he ensure that government websites are easy to consult and understand for people with disabilities? My second point concerns the plan of action. When I read the Secretary of State's approach, I regret to note that the ambition is not yet quite clear. That approach is pretty careful. The plan of action reads that, I sincerely believe, as a very nice introduction and vision. It clearly explains why we need to build an inclusive society, but unfortunately, at the point where you expect it to become concrete, it stops. That is why I would like to give the Secretary of State an opportunity to explain his views on the proposed approach. What ambition does the Secretary of State have when it comes to working for an inclusive society? Why does he choose so-called pledges in the execution? What are those, anyway? How does this contribute to the implementation of the UN Convention? Many countries have ratified the UN Convention earlier than the Netherlands and are already preparing implementation plans. We can learn something from that. In addition, I am very charmed by the plan of approach from Finland. That plan is based on the normal lives of people with disabilities. It's about participation and being able to participate. It describes very thematically what is needed and what concrete steps need to be taken in all areas of life, from independent living, accessible transport, education, finding work and participating in sport and culture, to well-accessible buildings. Does the Secretary of State know the Finnish plan of action? Is he prepared to come up with a similar thematic and concrete approach in the Netherlands? In any case, the PvdA wants a concrete plan of action, in which significant steps are taken. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. It is also important to work locally to strengthen inclusion. It is precisely at local level that people come to live, public space, work, sports, support and so on. Moreover, with the Wmo, the Youth Act and the Participation Act, municipalities have been given important tasks in the field of work, care and support for people with disabilities. People are allowed to draw up their own support plan and it is stipulated that there should be independent customer support in each municipality. This strengthens the control and autonomy of people with disabilities. I strongly believe in the opportunities offered by health care reforms. I am convinced that inclusive, appropriate education is one of the keys to a truly inclusive society. Children learn at a young age that everyone is different, although I can see that not everything is going as planned. The Coalition for Inclusion describes this very well: implementing the UN Convention is not an additional requirement for municipalities, but rather a great opportunity to give meaning and content to the transformation. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that local plans of approach are also drawn up? The SGP has tabled an amendment to that effect. And how far is the consultation with the UNG on this? How concrete has that become? Previously, municipalities have worked on local inclusion agendas, for example under the name Agenda 22. How are these experiences taken into account? A number of years ago an initiative was launched by then PvdA Secretary of State Jet Bussemaker under the name AllesAccessible, a nationwide collaboration between patient organisations and business associations. I've been president of that for a while. The ambition: to make the Netherlands more accessible in a practical way by exchanging good examples and by removing the fear of cold water for the ratification of the UN Convention. I noticed a very reasonable attitude in patient organizations. Not everything can be made accessible with one snap of the fingers. We've been over that a while. It takes time. There is also an understanding of this, but we must work on it. I also noticed from entrepreneurs that people with disabilities became increasingly on the retina. People with disabilities are also ordinary consumers. Investing in accessibility also means investing in more customers. How are the experiences of AllAccessible taken into account? How does the Secretary of State ensure that good approaches, initiatives and examples are exchanged? What place does that get in the plan of action? The Secretary of State also establishes an executive agency, which cooperates between patient organisations and business associations to implement the UN Convention. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he sees the execution agency in front of him? What tasks does it have? Will it be a real executive agency or will there be negotiations on different interests? In addition, there will also be an administrative consultation under the chairmanship of the Secretary of State of VWS. The government is also right to play an important role in coordinating the implementation of the UN Convention. That is also what the UN Convention should do. In the Netherlands, however, several departments are involved in the implementation. These are Transport, Education, Social Affairs and Employment and Living, to name a few. How is the Secretary of State going to direct the other departments? Are directors of other departments also involved in the administrative consultation? If we want to achieve a truly inclusive society, we will have to look far beyond the divisions of the different departments. And that's quite a thing. I wonder how the Secretary of State is gonna take this. It is not just his job, it is the job of the whole government. The government also indicates that the UN Convention will not apply in the Caribbean Netherlands for the time being. I think our colleagues were invited too. Why isn't it going to apply in the Caribbean Netherlands? An inventory of the consequences of co-financing in the Caribbean Netherlands will be made as soon as possible. When is this inventory going to take place? And what ambition is there to make that part of the Netherlands accessible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u56	That is a factual question for the cabinet: why not equal treatment? The Christian Union Group is often involved with the PvdA Group when it comes to equal treatment. Everyone is resident in the Netherlands and should be treated equally. So yes, you can ask a factual question, but you can also go one step further. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists agree with this unequal treatment of equal citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u57	Let me just be clear. I also believe that the Caribbean Netherlands should work towards an inclusive society and that this treaty is necessary for this. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State why he has been chosen not to do so now and what steps he is going to take in order to do so in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u58	If we state that everyone is resident in the Netherlands and that everyone deserves equal treatment and when it comes to municipalities of the Netherlands, which are fully part of the Netherlands, it is strange to say: on the Wadden Islands or in East Overijssel, in this case the BES Islands, it is not necessary and in the rest of the Netherlands? We can ask a question of why, but I challenge the PvdA Group to go one step further and say that equal treatment is also a priority here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u59	Yes. I can make my last question a little more specific. The ambition is with the Secretary of State to make Caribbean Netherlands inclusive. How quickly do we ensure that Caribbean Netherlands is included? I think Mr Segers would like to hear that. Maybe he'll fill in on that in his term. I see him nodding. I'm curious about that. My third topic is the involvement of people with disabilities in the implementation of the UN Convention. I take the political participation, the Tickets Act, into account. It is important that people with disabilities are fully involved in the implementation of the Convention. The group "We Get Up!" has a nice motto for that: nothing about us without us. I would like to add my heartfelt support to this. People with disabilities can very well indicate for themselves what it takes to participate in society. In this sense, the ratification of the UN Convention is also about the emancipation of disabled people themselves. You don't have to wait, you have to take the initiative yourself. The group "We Get Up!" That's what did it. It is a bunch of young people with disabilities who have drawn up a manifesto with concrete points in order to achieve a more inclusive society. I know the Secretary of State knows this manifesto. Is he going to work with the theories from there? How will the Secretary of State ensure that people with disabilities are involved in the implementation of the Convention and how will they be equipped to do so? This applies both nationally and locally. People with disabilities should also be able to use their civil rights, such as electoral votes. Part of this legal process is the adaptation of the Kieswet. Unfortunately, the government has included in the Election Act that only a quarter of the voting rooms need to be accessible to people with disabilities. That's strange, isn't it? Everyone has to be able to vote anywhere. I don't think that's much more than usual. That is why, together with Mrs Voortman, I have tabled an amendment to the Election Act which provides that all voting rooms must be accessible to everyone as soon as possible. Some people with disabilities have difficulty in expressing their voices independently. For example, if you are blind and have to color with the red pencil such a small box red, it is not possible to find the candidate on which you want to vote. If you can't use your arms, you can't make a red box. But you can't take anyone in the voting booth, so I understand. I have to admit that I do not always find the Tickets Act clear on this point. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State how we can arrange at such a time that someone can vote? Is help allowed in the voting booth when someone visibly has a physical disability? Is that legally secure enough? If people with disabilities feel that there is discrimination, they are fortunate to have access to a body. In the Netherlands we have the College of Human Rights. This can determine whether there is indeed discrimination. When all national remedies are exhausted, the UN Convention also provides for the possibility of an individual right of complaint to the International Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That is covered by the optional protocol. However, the government does not now choose to sign the optional protocol. The Dutch cannot go to that international committee. In other treaties, these optional protocols have often been signed. Why not now? That's how I'm asking the Secretary of State. Can he explain why, in this particular case, it is not possible to sign the optional protocol? The fourth issue is the ethical side of the UN Convention. This concerns in particular the interpretative statements. The government has issued eight interpretative statements on the UN Convention. Those are national reservations. These reservations relate in particular to the protection of the right to life, willfulness, the right to freedom to establish a family and fertility treatment in relation to having a restriction. The Human Rights College and the Council of State are very critical of these reservations. They sometimes protect our national legislation, for example in the area of abortion, but sometimes also harm the rights of people with disabilities. It's a complicated tension field. For example, a child desire of a couple with intellectual disabilities can be very easy to understand, but at the same time we must also defend the child's interests. Every child is entitled to good education and must be able to grow up safely. You really can't say that people with intellectual disabilities cannot by definition be good parents, because practice shows that this can really be done with the right support. We also believe that all children, with or without restrictions, are welcome in our society. With more and more techniques, we can see during pregnancy whether or not a child has a disability. This leads to very difficult and complicated personal choices, choices that are for future parents. We, society, must make it possible for every child, with or without limitation, to be welcome in our midst and receive the care it needs. I find it very difficult to take firm positions on the interpretative statements during this debate. I would like to listen to what my fellow chamber members and the Secretary of State have to say about this. In addition, we are holding discussions on these ethical issues in other debates. In general, these have led to careful legislation in our country. The fifth and final issue I would like to raise is how we raise awareness. One of the most important factors in achieving an inclusive society is awareness, awareness. There is rarely any reluctance to make anything accessible. Almost always it concerns ignorance. You just have to think about it. The same applies to the way you deal with people with disabilities. In countries that have already ratified the UN Convention, a good public campaign has shown that miracles can be achieved in improving accessibility and treatment. Belgium in particular has done a good job in this area. Spools on radio and TV and billboards take our southern neighbors into the awareness. The PvdA wants a broad public campaign to be launched in the Netherlands to improve awareness about inclusive society and the treatment of people with disabilities. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? How's he gonna do that? Is he willing to make money for that? Will the Secretary of State also use well-functioning campaigns such as in Belgium and England? When will the Chamber receive a detailed proposal? From society, by the way, some nice actions are also taking place. In this context, I would like to mention the video of the Flemish journalist Luk Dewulf. He made a beautiful YouTube video of Tima, a 9-year-old girl born with an open back and sitting in a wheelchair. In fact, I would have liked to start this debate by showing that video on a large screen. It's really worth taking a look at. The video takes about two minutes. In the first minute you see Tima sitting separately at a table. In the background, her parents talk to a primary school teacher who says it's way too complicated for Tima to go to a regular primary school. Then you see Tima's little brother going to the gym. Why can't I come, the girl asks. The answer is, well, because the gym isn't set up for kids like you. There are still a few uncomfortable situations to follow. In the second minute of the video you see almost the same images again. But then the primary school teacher says: of course we are going to make that possible and Tima can join us in the classroom. Then you see the girl at school. You see her in sports and playing with kids her age. This campaign has been called Say Yes; say yes to children like me. It became a huge hype in Belgium. Why? I think because this video appeals to a sense of justice and because it shows what we want. Today we have the opportunity to actually record this in the Netherlands. People with disabilities are not only disabled. I told you before, they're just a consumer too. There's gonna be more and more of them. In the beginning I indicated that more than 2 million Dutch people have a limitation. If you are not accessible as a catering entrepreneur or shopkeeper, you simply leave turnover. Any rollator that can't get into your restaurant is a less sold meal. A while ago I was given the Accessibility Award at the Frisian Maritime Museum in Sneek. The museum is located in the middle of the city centre of Sneek and consists of a series of historic buildings attached to each other, built hundreds of years ago, when access for people with disabilities was not yet taken into account. The museum has been renovated and made 100% accessible to everyone. The museum director thought it was above all a sign of decency that everyone should be able to visit the museum. The result is not only an accessible museum, but also 50% more visitors. Because almost no one goes to the museum alone. People often bring family or friends. Of course, people with disabilities do the same. Those are all extra visitors. It is therefore a great opportunity, not only for museums, but also for catering, transporters and many other services. Accessibility is not only a matter of decency, but also a good chance of additional income. This is also well described in the European Accessibility Act published last week. I'm gonna finish up. The Netherlands is finally going to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. As I said before, this is not just a law. It's about a human rights treaty. This means an assignment to create a society in which people with disabilities have a full place and can participate, just like those without disabilities, in which autonomy is the starting point. This requires a little from the government, from society, from business and from people with disabilities themselves. Legislation is necessary to ensure that accessibility over a number of years is also taken for granted, that an architect of a restaurant that is being rebuilt is sent back to the drawing board because he has forgotten to take into account disabled visitors, that children with and without disabilities go to the same school as much as possible, that we simply use the same public transport, that someone with disabilities does not have to ask to participate, but that it has already been taken into account, that general accessibility in the Netherlands is the norm. It's not a question of being able anymore. It's a matter of will now. I assume that all political parties will also have it, because a society that everyone can participate in requires an inclusive society. That's a good goal to work on together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u60	Mr. Chairman. Today we are not just talking about people with disabilities in an abstract sense. Various groups have members or employees with visible disabilities, including the CDA. As our co-worker herself says, it is an obstacle on the one hand to participation in society, but on the other it makes it combatable and resilient in that same society. There is no doubt that there is still a need to fight for accessibility. Fortunately, however, we have a Chamber of Parliament which is practically involved and helps with adjustments, provides help and solves problems as quickly as possible. The handling of this bill is a good time to give a compliment for that. The service of this organization deserves a plume. However, this is not always self-evident. Legio are the stories that come to us: unreachable toilets, education that is not yet equipped for the child in question, unreachable lift buttons. Earlier, I wrote about a student's apartment, where a student could not live in a wheelchair of his days of life. You name it. With these experiences on the table, we are today discussing the UN Convention for People with Disabilities, both the National Law and the Implementing Law and the Plan of Action. There is a political majority to ratify this treaty, and that is right. The social opportunities are there and must also be fully exploited. However, some of the legal implications and some interpretative explanations remain to be asked. The starting point of the treatment is for the CDA that any person, regardless of his limitation, may be there, that this person belongs to it, that he is a full member of our society, with all the rights and duties associated with it. The CDA assumes that the government shares this point of departure, but why is it not more explicitly included in the implementing law? Many people with disabilities are already participating, each at its own level. They marry, they work, they study, they participate in traffic, they go out, as last Thursday came up in the conversation with We Stand Up! These are more than 20 young people with disabilities who claim as much autonomy as possible within the possibilities they have. That's customization. Then there are the interpretative explanations. Apart from Article 10, the College of Human Rights proposes that no further interpretative statements be made. The government takes the view that this is necessary. Today, the CDA would like to hear from the Secretary of State why the government considers it important to make these statements. How should the statement in Article 29 be read? This is about support for voting. What exactly is "support outside the voting booth"? What's allowed and what's not allowed? Is it only explanation and, if so, what explanation is and what is not allowed? Can we do this in the polling station, but not in the voting booth? If that is the case, will it not be time to inform polling stations? I've heard complaints about that before. People who are blind or visually impaired may be helped in the booth, but what about people who are spastic? The government gives municipalities an important role in the implementation of the UN Convention. As we read in the more detailed report, they do not receive any additional financial resources. Can the government explain again why that is not necessary? Municipalities are faced with a number of legal consequences of this Treaty. In his assessment of the Van Dijk and Others amendment, the Secretary of State wishes to do so. Get in? The Secretary of State for VWS will act as a coordinating director, and that does surprise the CDA Group a bit. Why hasn't the Ministry of the Interior been chosen to act as a coordinating ministry? People might think, "Well, what difference does it make?', But it does matter, because it is about human rights and this is the Ministry responsible for that. Why does that not apply to this treaty? The municipalities are also covered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And it is the case, as the Secretary of State himself says, that municipalities are given a very important task. From the point of view of inclusion, it would also be better not to let the State Secretary responsible for people with disabilities be responsible for the care and support but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? The implementation of this UN amount is more and wider than the territory of VWS. This includes the Wmo, the Wlz and the Youth Act, see, for example, the amendments on the Ticking Act. So we're not just talking about care. How does the Secretary of State prepare the VNG and the municipalities for this? Is there a step-by-step plan? After all, Rome wasn't built in one day either. The Equal Treatment Act is extended with the exception of financial services. However, the Government states that Article 3 of the Equal Treatment Act does not exclude that, as a result of the risk assessment, the person concerned may only take out insurance under circumstances against payment of a higher premium or with a more limited coverage, as may be the case with other insurance undertakings. The judge and the Human Rights College are empowered to examine whether there is no unacceptable indirect discrimination on the grounds of disability or chronic illness. Can the government indicate how this exception relates to the Van Boxtel Law, the Medical Examinations Act? In financial services, the government also makes a difference between direct distinction and indirect distinction. Indirect discrimination may be justified under circumstances, as we read in the text. Firstly, we wonder whether this difference between direct and indirect distinction can be made up in practice. Secondly, we wonder where the border is. When you say that indirect distinction is allowed, you have to know what you mean. By way of comparison: risk selection by health insurance companies should not be allowed to take out health insurance, but should indirect risk selection by health insurance companies be allowed to do so? I now come to the Otwin van Dijk and others amendment. That amendment has now been amended. This amendment aims to introduce a general accessibility standard. That has just been confirmed by Mr Van Dijk. My heart says yes, but my head asks a number of questions. Is it the intention of this amendment to achieve a general provision where adjustment is necessary and appropriate? I am thinking of the example of a driveway at a shop which is made fit for all wheelchairs and prams immediately and not just for the applicant's wheelchair. Or is it intended that there should be a general accessibility standard for any conceivable restriction and that it should be added to the law, and then unbiased? I understand that the proposers intend to do so. The fact that paragraph 2 states that general measures may be taken also indicates this. If so, what does that mean for the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the body that supervises, implements and monitors this law? For example, this body is now being asked by individuals for an opinion in a specific situation. What does this mean, for example, in the field of transport in the existing situation under the Equal Treatment Act, which includes a year plan, on the basis of which the latest adjustments should be made by 2020? Is this gonna overrule it? What does it mean for the rules contained in the Building Decision for the accessibility of buildings? It states that a building is deemed to be accessible if the requirements set out in the Building Decision are met. Can a citizen first go to the Human Rights College and then go to court to enforce further adjustments? Is this regulation therefore overruled by this amendment? What does the example mean for the readability of websites? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as I understand it, is working on legislation to impose mandatory accessibility requirements on government websites for people with visual impairment. They have to comply with that. Does the standard laid down in the amendment make this legislation superfluous? Does this mean that a read-out button can be made mandatory for every web store?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u61	I thought I'd wait a minute. Mr Van Dijk's amendment has also been signed by me. Mrs Keijzer has asked a lot of questions, which I cannot answer all. What is being proposed, in my view, is very logical, namely that you ensure that your provision is accessible in reasonable and equitable terms in the long term. That seems very logical to me. That can also be arranged in other countries, why should it be so difficult here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u62	We all want the Netherlands to be accessible to people, but when we deal with laws that regulate it, we also need to look closely at what we make mandatory and what we impose on the Netherlands. That goes for everyone. The prohibition of discrimination is addressed to everyone. I have also looked at how they have dealt with it in Denmark, for example. That's the law I have in front of me. This includes the various aspects of accessibility, as we know them now. You don't know what else is invented. These different elements of accessibility are made mandatory to varying degrees and different time horizons apply to meeting them. This is different from a general duty of accessibility. I understand from Mr Van Dijk that that is what he is trying to do. I'm really looking. What do we incorporate into the law and what, in general terms, do we oblige everyone in the Netherlands to do? After all, it is also stated in the amendment 'general accessibility'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u63	That is what the amendment says. I agree with Mrs Keijzer that there is still a need for a plan of action to show what this means for the various subjects. I will say that in my own contribution, but I hope that the notion of general accessibility is also supported by the CDA? Of course it'll be complicated. Of course, that will mean that we will have to take another critical look at the Building Decision, but that cannot be a reason to say that we should not do that now. Shouldn't it be the other way around? First we say where we want to go and then we look at what we might need to do for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u64	The general notion of accessibility, not to discriminate on the basis of disability or chronic illness, is already in our legislation. It is contained in Article 1 of the Constitution, in Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights and also in the current Article 2 of the Equal Treatment Act. We've already passed them together in different laws. Then you see what needs to be changed now. There is an introduction law for this, there is a plan of action and now there is also the Van Dijk and others amendment. Mrs Voortman is right to say that. I hear Mrs Voortman say: we accept it, and then we will look at what it means, for example, for the Building Decision or for people who own a web shop or for public transport. As much as I share the need for accessibility, I do think that we should be aware of the laws we lay down with each other and of the obligations we impose on Dutch society in general. "In general," I make it very clear. You could also choose to include the general provisions in the current Article 2, which I asked for in my speech. The moment someone reports to make a shop accessible to wheelchairs, not only do you focus on the person who happens to report that day, but you immediately look a bit wider: if I do what, what can I do for several people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u65	The latter is exactly what the amendment is about. So perhaps I can make the question very brief. Does Mrs Keijzer think that our society should be accessible to people with disabilities and that this should lead to measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u66	In general, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u67	That is good, because that is exactly what the amendment is about. It is also clear that this needs to be worked out, for example in a General Measure of Governance or through a plan of action. If Mrs Keijzer supports the general principle and also believes that it should not be the case that people should always have to ask and beg to enter or participate in something, then I assume that she will do so even more c.s. makes; that's how I understand her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u68	So I've asked a lot of questions about that. General standards are laid down in our legislation. Our legislation states that transport is gradually becoming the horizon of 2020, to give you an example. Our legislation contains general standards on accessibility in the Building Decision. By the way, it has not been said that the Netherlands is finished; I am not saying that. But I do want to know what you will impose if you continue, as Mr Van Dijk is trying to do. That is what my questions are about, because I want to be able to make the right balance. Is this amendment not going too far? If we had known that, would we have put it more precisely in the law? In view of Mrs Voortman's reaction, I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State will say. Mrs Voortman said: we establish it, and then we go and see what it means for the Building Decision. So I would like to know from the Secretary of State how he reads this amendment. Mr. Chairman. In the round table that we had a while ago, I drew attention to the assistance or help dog. In many municipalities there is a leash obligation for these dogs. So those dogs have to be on the line. I wonder, by the way, what exactly is the term 'help dogs' or 'assistance dogs'? I sometimes hear people prefer to speak of "assistant dogs." That is better; let us just do it today. The essence of what assistance dogs need to do is to be able, for example, to take things out of a shelf in a supermarket, or to run into the streets to pick up something that the person has dropped. Can the Secretary of State consult with the Association of Dutch Municipalities on this matter? In any case, the CDA would like to co-sign the D66 Group amendment to ensure the access of assistance dogs. It is really time to take a step in that direction. Not much was known about the plan of action, its objectives and the quartermaster to be appointed. Several groups have asked additional questions about this, as have the CDA. The CDA hopes that today the Secretary of State will be able to clarify the goals that the government intends to set for the first year and with which the quartermaster will then work, and the costs associated with it. Finally, I come to the Government's intention to abolish the blue envelope. How does the government view this in relation to the UN Convention? The CDA knows that there will be an exception, so that you can still receive the Tax Office's post by letter. But is the other way of receiving mail so arranged that it can pass the test of the UN Convention? Shouldn't this just be turned back on parts, the CDA Group wonders. Ratification of this treaty deals with a great many practical issues. However, there is also an overarching discussion: are people with disabilities accepted into our society? Are they all part of it? Does the government do everything reasonably in its power to improve the social position of these people? Are there parents with a handicapped child who are unnecessarily concerned about the future of that child and whether there is sufficient care? We are not here to ratify the Convention for people with disabilities. It is another step in the right direction. After that the real work begins and that is work of the long life. This also came out clearly during the conversation with the ladies and gentlemen of We stand up!. It's customization. It's not right to do it, but sometimes just listen carefully. What does anyone really need? This applies not only to accessible public buildings, but to all areas of life: education, housing, work, public transport, leisure activities, you name it. But it all starts with acceptance and awareness. Jan Troost expressed this very nicely at the CDA Congress, where he received the Frans Wolters Prize. This is a prize that the CDA awards to people who have made a special effort in the social domain. He talked about his daughter Jeske and about the daughter of Jan Peter Balkenende, Amelie, and about how there was one big difference, namely that Jeske has a handicap, and how that is a struggle, even 40 years after the journey out of the woods. He did mention that it was a common struggle, both for Jeske and for Amelie. After all, we have to do it together. "For," said Jan to the CDA Congress, "take it from me that people with disabilities will always be born. And the battle we are fighting is for you too, because in the end we all get a handicap." I then sat in the room and realized in all modesty that being born without disabilities is not self-evident, and that in a fraction of a second the difference can be made between being healthy or having to go through life with a disability for the rest of your life. In that spirit, I have prepared today's debate and I would like to continue the discussion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u69	Mr. Chairman. A point in advance. I am speaking in place of Mr Carla Dik. She would have liked to be here, but she's in Paris right now. However, it is a warm advocate for inclusive society and would have liked to have this debate. I'm doing that today as her replacement, bearing in mind her personal struggle. At the same time I also have a personal contribution, because in my contribution I think of my cousin Hannah, who is now 21 years old. When she was born, and it became clear that she had down syndrome, she left her welcome in the medical environment to be desired. She has then developed into a beautiful person, who participates in school, who works, who is currently applying, who is part of it. I think about her when I make this contribution. 1948 is the context of this treaty. After the intense experience of the Second World War, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That's what it started with. Subsequently, several universal conventions were followed to combat discrimination and exclusion of disadvantaged groups. At the same time, people with disabilities worldwide are still lagging behind. They are more often excluded, more frequently discriminated against, they live more often in poverty, they are more often victims of abuse, abuse or exploitation, they are more often taken less seriously and they are less likely to have good training or work. 13 December 2006 was an important day for the 650 million people worldwide living with disabilities. The Netherlands signed the treaty which included 50 articles. Today is also an important day because the parliamentary debate has begun and ratification hopefully will take place soon. The group we are talking about has been waiting a long time for this. I remember the 2012 motion when my predecessor Arie Slob urged ratification. The motion was passed. We then talked about ratification within a year, but we did not achieve that. There have been pressing questions about this in many debates, and I am glad that today is the day when the Treaty is now before us and ratification is within reach. This Convention shall promote, protect, guarantee and respect equality. This Convention does not contain any new rights, but includes more specific obligations. Implementation requires the State to respect, protect, implement and promote these rights by taking appropriate measures. That affects the task of the government. The starting point of the government is that everyone must be able to participate fully, everyone who is part of this society, including people for whom it is sometimes more difficult to participate. This principle is laid down in the law on equal treatment on grounds of disability or chronic illness. At the request of my group, this is also laid down in criminal law. Discrimination based on physical, mental or intellectual impairment is punishable. In particular, this is ensured in socio-economic traffic; businesses or services that are not accessible to people with disabilities without a good reason can be prosecuted. The big question is why this is so important. The importance for the fraction of the Christian Union lies in the fact that every life is valuable, at every stage of that life and that we can never qualify life. We can never say that life is only valuable if it meets certain criteria. No, every life is valuable. That underlines this treaty. In this line I read somewhere a nice quote from someone with a limitation who summarized this treaty. He said, "It's just that I'm here too." That's how it is; that's very common. But do we see these values in each other? What do we have to do to bring these values to fruition? Do we not too often choose the path of the least resistance as directors of the government? People with disabilities are a minority in our society, but how often does someone in their business plan consider people with disabilities? How often does an architect think from the perspective of someone with a wheelchair? I just read a column from someone who went to a concert and heard her groaning about the fact that she didn't hurry up, that she didn't have to stand in line and go in like that. Assertive as she was, she quickly cried out back: will you exchange with me? And then it got quiet. Our society is becoming increasingly complicated for people with disabilities. I refer to travel by public transport and, for example, to tax returns. Information technology is developing rapidly and for some people with disabilities this is a result. I'm thinking e-health and social media, like Facebook. At the same time, there are many people who cannot experience the digital developments. This has to be different. The government has an exemplary role to play in this and should also improve digital accessibility, as well as banks, insurers and pension funds. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on this point. By looking at the design of our society in a different way, we can improve accessibility for people with disabilities. I would like to stress that it is not just people with physical disabilities, but also people with non-visible disabilities with intellectual disabilities. By dealing with people with disabilities in a different way, we can improve the participation of people with disabilities. That requires something from us, but also from people with disabilities. They may feel the safety to indicate what else is possible and what else needs to be done. The ratification of this Treaty places the emphasis on self-determination. In another context, my group has some difficulty with this concept or has a somewhat ambivalent attitude towards it. The power of this emancipation movement lies in self-determination. This Treaty is always seen as the turning point on the road to an inclusive society. Not a government that decides about them, but with them. Do not approach them from a need for help and care, but see them as individuals who themselves are able to give direction to their own lives. Participating becomes a basic right. Recently we had an open day in this house. People with disabilities were also welcome. With them, the question has been considered: what does your inclusive society look like? They wrote down on sheets of paper what their thoughts were. That's nicely designed on a nice pamphlet. That is the answer to the question: what does your inclusive society look like? I'd like to offer that to the Secretary of State. Once again he's bent over dry policy pieces, he's still smiling with... and he wants fresh ideas, then he can look at this. He can leave it lying around with his officials working on this. This is the input of people who were on the open day, people with disabilities who have been thinking about the answer to the question: what is an inclusive society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u70	We'll take it. The Secretary of State has now received it, so that he can leave it lying between his officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u71	Thank you for that encouragement. I too feel inspired and motivated by the stories of the movement We Stand Up! Mr Keijzer also referred to the people who have united in that movement. We received their collection of personal stories about an inaccessible Netherlands, written by young adults with disabilities. When you read the stories, one thing stands out: there is still much to improve in the areas of public transport, living, care, education and going out. The Human Rights College also identified bottlenecks not so long ago: stop times that are too short to get on a bus carefree, lack of knowledge among professionals, teachers and employers who do not know which tools are available at all, and so I could continue. Calling bottlenecks is one thing. Step two is, of course, taking it away. So it is right to ask each other the question of what could change in the future. What are the so-called appropriate measures resulting from this Treaty? On the one hand, there are obligations to ensure equality in collective provision. On the other hand, reasonable adjustments are also expected. This should apply not only to public authorities, but also to employers, educational institutions, housing associations and so on. The Treaty does not require disproportionate adjustments. This protects entrepreneurs. I agree with my colleague Otwin van Dijk that an additional step can be taken. My colleague Carla Dik has signed his amendment. We have just heard the implications of this in the debate. We will support that amendment in order to further ensure accessibility and give people with disabilities a stronger position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u72	Mr Segers mentioned We Stand Up! And the manifesto of those young adults with disabilities. He mentioned a number of theories, but he did not mention one: we should not pay more for our health as a result of our disability than someone without disabilities. Does the Christian Union also endorse that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u73	It has implications, of course, if I say yes in full. I like to say yes in full, because for us the criterion is always: do people get in trouble? You do want equal treatment for all citizens in the Netherlands. That is an important starting point to underline this equal treatment. How that works in practice will have to be looked at every time. For us, an important criterion is: do people fall between shore and ship? If so, we must provide a safety net.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u74	That is a very important point. Proposition 8 is of course about the own contribution that people with disabilities have to pay because of their limitations or their own risk, because that group almost always loses its own risk. I welcome Mr Segers' point of principle on this point. I intend to table an amendment on that own contribution. I hope that Mr Segers and his group will take a favourable look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u75	Wanted, I'm sure. I told you, I need to find out exactly what the implications are. It seems obvious that the starting point is just. If people are at risk of falling between shore and ship as a result of a handicap, the government must provide a safety net. The government is a shield for the weak, for people with disabilities, so you have to offer the helping hand. My next words were "then there must be butter with the fish." So that was exactly this interruption. It is not just fine words and writing them on paper that we can do, but we must also really strive for concrete changes. Customised solutions are needed to enable parents with a child with disabilities to combine education and care. Risk selection among health insurers should be eliminated. Access to education needs to be improved. Now too many children with disabilities are at home because either there is no suitable regular school or there is no special educational institution anymore. Applying for a pgb and the administration around it should be simplified. The digitalisation of the Tax Administration must be reversed as long as people with disabilities are not adequately taken into account. It should be avoided that screening programmes that focus on life-compatible restrictions, such as down, as my niece Hannah has, send out the signal that people with that limitation might as well not have been there. I don't care. This cabinet still speaks with two mouths when, on the one hand, it strives for inclusion, for an inclusive society in which everyone is part of it, and on the other hand, it wants to make pregnant women easy to access the NIPT (Non Invasive Prenatal Test), to a test that looks specifically at down syndrome. In the light of this Treaty, therefore, the awareness strategy should not be limited to the basic principles of this Convention, but should go hand in hand with providing good information to pregnant people about what it means to have a child with a disability in the Netherlands. The Down Syndrome Foundation put it this way: does the government do enough to improve the social position of people with down syndrome in such a way that pregnant women do not opt for abortion in down syndrome for fear of discrimination or disadvantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u76	I'm trying to understand the position of the Christian Union. Does the Christian Union say that I would entirely share that good information is important? I think that's very essential. Or does she also say that the NIPT should actually be banned? Is that what the Christian Union wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u77	What the Christian Union wants is good information so that parents who have a choice do not have all the information under pressure and not out of fear of discrimination or from signals from a society that says "down, that would no longer have to" make a choice. There are societies in our region that even strive for a down-free society. If that's the signal, the choice parents make isn't fair and free. I referred to my cousin Hannah. Let me just say what the doctor said when she was born. He said, "Next time amniotic puncture, you've had bad luck." So Hannah had slipped through the loopholes of the tests. If that's the signal in our society, it's a society in which I don't feel welcome either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u78	I share the point that information is important on many issues, so that people can make a well-balanced decision themselves. However, I do not understand so much the very critical remark made to the cabinet that the current situation would run counter to an inclusive society. What the cabinet is doing in this area is giving people freedom of choice and creating opportunities. I believe that information is also being provided. I don't know Minister Schippers as someone who doesn't think that information is important. So I do not understand the very critical attitude of the Christian Union towards inclusive society versus information and the NIPT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u79	Mr President, perhaps I should ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u80	I'd rather not, as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u81	Then maybe I'll ask a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u82	You can do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u83	And then it might be that Mrs Bergkamp feels challenged to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u84	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u85	If we agree that equality between men and women is the starting point which means that gender selection and abortion is not possible, if we do not believe that this is justified because it would undermine the value of gender equality, if there is ultimately an offer to select on down and if that would be a good reason to break off pregnancy, what does that say about the equivalence of people with and without down syndrome? That says something about those values. That is a sensitive ethical discussion, but that does affect inclusive society. Are children with down syndrome welcome, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u86	Clear. I would like to point out that you have an AO next week on termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u87	It's much more complex. Mr Segers will understand that. There are a lot of differences between people with down. So it can be harder to raise a child with down. That should not be a reason to say that this child should not be there. But I think the choice lies with parents in the end. They have a responsibility to raise their children. That's what this is all about, isn't it? That freedom of choice is very important, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u88	I think we can agree on the need for good information. We have to tell the stories about the beautiful and sometimes difficult sides of life with someone with down syndrome. It is not just a smell of roses and moonshine, but also not only heavy and difficult: the honest stories. If we ensure that this information is available at the crucial moment that parents face that choice, then we can find each other. We should say that even a child with down syndrome is welcome and we will do whatever is necessary in that inclusive society to give such a child a full place in society. I hope that we can agree on that point of departure and that we can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u89	If Mr Segers adds that we must also make sure that people know what it means to have a child with disabilities and what a special responsibility that is, and that we must also be honest about it, then we can agree with each other. But we have to be honest about that with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u90	Yeah, sure, if you're gonna tell the honest stories, you're gonna have to tell honest stories. But it would be very unfortunate and regrettable if, on the basis of time pressure in a context of a culture that sends out the signal "these people should not be there" the choice was made not to have a child but not to be born. That would be extremely painful. The opposite is the search for an inclusive society in which we send the clear signal: everyone has a full place and is welcome. That's where we can find each other. The plan of action we have now received is a first step but not enough. It lacks concretisation and content. In order to avoid ratification being merely symbolic, my group wants the government to quickly sit down with the alliance in order to implement the plan of action. The system of pledges only works if there are concrete goals attached to it that are monitored and clearly translated to the target group. As far as we are concerned, this contributes to awareness. Luck in an accident: by implementing this treaty, we can see how well you implement it in countries around us. We can learn from that. We can take advantage of that. In Germany, for example, each Land must draw up an implementation plan. In the Netherlands this is possible by municipality. You could include a local agenda for inclusion in the plan of approach. What agreements are being made with the UNG on this matter? The SGP has come up with an interesting amendment on local inclusion. I look forward with interest to the Secretary of State's response to that. I am giving the cabinet today the opportunity to make up for the lack of ambition in implementing this debate through concrete commitments. I look forward to that. I think the next thing is giving the Secretary of State a boost in the right direction. Because I want to offer him a book. I just offered a pamphlet. I have another book here. There's no way it's gonna go on. This book is about Jens. It was written by his mother, Odet Stabel, who sits here in the gallery and watches. She wrote a book about her struggle against systems and for what she calls "Jens-worthy" life for her son. I'd like to offer this book to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State for Education was also offered this book. So the information could be exchanged. I would say: read this, discuss this with each other and, above all, do something with it, for Jens and for those few thousand children in a similar complex situation. I'd like to offer this to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u91	That will be received and we will pass it on to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u92	The book is called: A child with opportunities, the quest of a mother with her multi-disabled son.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u93	Thank you. It's a little packing night for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u94	I told you, you can't eat it. Every child in need of care deserves our attention. In recent years, the Christian Union Group has been particularly committed to the group of multi-complex disabled children. These are children who are worth their while and who, despite their demanding care, want to grow up in a family. However, it is not possible to give these children a good place in legislation and regulations. They're basically out of every box. It is often not thanks to, but despite systems that care children get the right care and development opportunities at their level. Life and learning also applies to these children. Every child deserves a chance, including Jens. This treaty extends far beyond the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America. That is why a high level of coordination is needed between the different ministries. Following this point, I was given something by Mr Dik. When the Environment Act was discussed last year, it was not yet placed next to the Convention, which would be very relevant. Is it possible that from the ministries of Social Affairs, Education, Culture and Well-being, VWS, Home Affairs, I and M, and Foreign Affairs the headlines will be put together to further shape the implementation of the UN Convention? It is clear that there are also people with disabilities. As far as my group is concerned, there are two-monthly consultations and clear reports. My group thinks the Secretary of State is losing chances with the Election Act. The Tickets Act is minimally amended and only for the benefit of people with physical disabilities. How is voting facilitated for people with visual or intellectual disabilities? We understand that this is a difficult discussion, but it still needs to be conducted. Wouldn't it be a good idea to set up a committee of wise men to put forward concrete proposals for the 2017 election? I come to an important point for my group: to make an interpretative statement. The cabinet intends to make eight interpretative statements. It considers this necessary. The question is whether these statements are necessary and desirable. It is, among other things, the Council of State and the Human Rights College that point this out to us. Article 10 is sensitive to my group. This article mentions the right to life. We believe that Article 10 contains the correct basis for improving the protection of unborn life. With the issuing of an interpretative statement, nothing will change the current practice. I have just mentioned the following example. Why do we reject it when a woman in the Netherlands breaks off her pregnancy because of sex, but do we accept it when it comes to restriction? Can the Secretary of State give a reflection on this? Is the right to life not so important that it should also be enshrined in the Constitution? The Human Rights College has the task of monitoring the implementation of the Convention after ratification. Resources have been promised to prepare for monitoring. However, no concrete agreement has been reached on structural funds necessary for monitoring. Agreements on structural funds are of great importance. I call on the Secretary of State to make arrangements on this matter for the spring note. I would like to hear a response on this point. In an interruption, I have already said something about the BES islands. We often talk about the differences between Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius, Saba and the Netherlands in this Chamber. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that when it comes to the position of people with disabilities, there should be no differences? That is, in principle, incorrect. I am disappointed that not one word in the plan of action is devoted to the Caribbean Netherlands. My group is therefore in favour of drawing up a plan of action for the Caribbean part of our kingdom. Is the study to be carried out on the implementation of existing legislation and policies in the light of treaty obligations already in place? I'd like to hear a response. This Convention extends beyond domestic obligations. There's also a foreign component in it. In low and middle income countries, there are more people with disabilities than in rich countries. They often have to do with exclusion in society. Moreover, they are not always achieved through development programmes such as education, employment and health care. Our group believes that the inclusion message should become an integral part of the entire development cooperation policy. I would also like a comment on that point. Several parties in the Lower House have made proposals to extend Article 1 of the Constitution. It hasn't made it so far. Why don't we join forces after today to get on with it? I conclude with the sincere wish that this Convention and its early ratification will contribute to an inclusive society in which everyone and everyone is equally welcome, with a restriction or without a restriction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u95	Mr Segers referred to Article 1 of the Constitution. I am working with the PvdA and GroenLinks to prepare for this. We are first orienting ourselves equally broadly on what is all possible. Does Mr Segers say that he is in favour of extending Article 1 as regards the ground "sexual orientation" and people with disabilities, so both?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u96	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u98	I see Mrs Voortman walking forward. You're welcome, but my list says Mrs. Agema's next. But go ahead. Mrs. Agema says it's okay. You're such an eager. We should not slow down that enthusiasm either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u99	I would like to thank Mrs Agema very much for her support. I did think it was my turn. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a compliment. This afternoon I have been watching the work of the deaf interpreters in the public gallery, who have been constantly translating. That seems pretty strenuous to me. In any case, I would like to thank the deaf interpreters for ensuring, at least until 6 p.m., that people have been able to follow the debate. This also shows how much it is not yet in our minds that debates in the Chamber should also be accessible to people with auditory limitations. I just heard that at the beginning of the sitting there was some fuss, that the deaf interpreter was not allowed to stand at first, but that thanks to one of our great messengers it was said that it is allowed. I think that's how it's done. Sometimes certain rules just have to be done, but in such a case as this you see how something can be done. Compliments therefore to the interpreter and to the messenger who arranged this. The quality of society can be derived from the way in which everyone is treated equally or is allowed to have equal access to facilities. I was on vacation in Spain a few years ago. I couldn't help noticing that even the smallest bar had a disabled toilet. Last year, I was one of the poorest countries in the European Union, with the Permanent Committee on Security and Justice in Bulgaria. There was a pretty old town hall there, but that was completely accessible to people with disabilities. There were also parking spaces in important places for people with disabilities. That made perfect sense there. I was really struck by the fact that countries that see the equipment less well have managed to do better than the Netherlands on this point. In the Netherlands, provision for people with disabilities is still lacking. There is also a lack of accessibility for people with disabilities. We need to move towards an inclusive society, in which everyone can decide for themselves how he or she wants to live his or her life, where any physical, mental or intellectual limitations play a minimal role. Internationally, the Netherlands is an advocate of human rights. The establishment of the International Criminal Court in the Netherlands is important for this. However, there is still a world to be won in terms of human rights in the Netherlands. This applies, among other things, to the position of people with chronic illness or disability. That is why GroenLinks, together with a large number of other parties, has long been committed to ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Chronic Disease or Limitation signed in 2006. An inclusive society, with equal opportunities and an equal position for people with disabilities or chronic illness, a society in which everyone can decide for themselves how they want to live their lives, is unfortunately still far away. Let me give you a few examples. Travelling by public transport is not possible for many people with disabilities. Many bus and tram stops are not accessible, so sometimes people do not seem to be able to get off or travel on during the trip. On three of the four stations, there's no backup. I also hear about students who could not attend the study of their choice because of an inaccessible building. In many cinemas it is not possible for people with wheelchairs to watch the film together with a non-wheelchair-bound person. But it also plays closer. We have just discussed it in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Dijk. The entire Binnenhof, including the Upper Chamber and the Knight's Room, are not accessible independently. In the First Chamber, for example, a journalist with a disability cannot appear in the public gallery. Last week in the Lower House I had a meeting in a room that can only be reached via a spiral staircase. I have just said that the debates cannot be followed by people with auditory limitations. Not even 25% of the polling stations are accessible. Everyone knows the examples of taxi drivers who refuse people with a help dog and everyone knows the example of last summer when someone with ALS was sent off a terrace. The Netherlands is anything but an inclusive society. We are not sufficiently equipped for people with disabilities. Ratifying should not be an act in itself, but a significant step towards inclusive society. The Dutch Government has taken a long time to ratify the Treaty, which unfortunately makes us almost farther away with the date of ratification. The government agreement states that the Netherlands ratifys the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities on condition that the following obligations can be implemented gradually. Now, finally, the bill is before us. Unfortunately, the great length of time taken by the cabinet has not led to an ambitious ratification of the UN Convention. The signal from the government should be that we are doing everything we can to ensure equal opportunities and opportunities for people in society and that we are taking the ratification of the UN Convention for a significant step in the right direction. However, I note that there is little legislative change in the legislative proposal and that the plan of action does not involve much more than consultation. Is the Participation Act, for example, in line with the UN Convention? I wonder. The government agreement said that the UN Convention would finally be ratified, but now it turns out that it is nothing more than that. Actually, I don't see enough ambition. I think it's too late and too skinny. The cabinet must set an example, show ambition and give the right direction. On the contrary, the cabinet should give impetus to the ratification of the Treaty. Indeed, much of it is about cultural change and a change of mindset. However, there is enough that you as a government can do to give this culture change a big push. Against the smoking ban was also a lot of resistance, but it has proven to be a game changer. Isn't that what this bill is supposed to be? Hence my question as to why there is no more ambition and decisiveness. Is it enough to add a few words to the Election Act and extend the Equal Treatment Act to goods and services? Is that really going to change the situation in the Netherlands? Is the bill going to reduce the drop-out of students with disabilities and allow them to leave their education at the same rate as a diploma or diploma? Is the bill going to make it easier for people with chronic illness or disability to travel, not to be refused because they have a helping dog and do not have to plan their journey more days in advance, but can go on a spontaneous journey? Is the bill going to ensure that people with chronic illness or disability are equally likely to have a good job, that they join a sports association or cultural association equally and that they will be able to go out and participate equally? And is the bill going to make our democracy more accessible to people with disabilities? In short, is the bill going to allow people with disabilities to direct their lives themselves? Even when it comes to the government itself, it's unclear. As far as I am concerned, the minimum commitment must be to ensure that the Empire itself meets the target for the quota of disabled people in public service within a very short period of time. Every effort must also be made to make all state buildings and websites 100% accessible to people with any limitations. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that the debates and meetings of the House of Representatives can also be followed by people with auditory limitations. It is also necessary to ensure that people with a chronic disease have equal opportunities to fulfil their democratic rights, so 100% accessible voting rooms and support should be provided in the voting booth. As far as democracy is concerned, I also think it is necessary to examine the extent to which representative and administrative functions really reflect society and to look for and remove obstacles to a representative or administrative role. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Unfortunately, the targets are missing. The cabinet doesn't say much about it either. There will be an awareness campaign, together with the campaign against discrimination, and there will be a platform. But that concrete plan of action, with the objectives I have just mentioned, is missing. Where does the Cabinet want to go? What is the government's vision of inclusive society? Does it mean that the Netherlands is finally putting human rights at the top of the agenda for people with disabilities and that it is making policy a real starting point? The Ministry of VWS is given the direction of the implementation of the Convention, but how will the Secretary of State ensure that other ministries are joined and addressed? How will the cabinet ensure that inclusive society becomes a cabinet-wide priority? Why is the implementation of this Convention the responsibility of the Minister of the United States of America and not of the Minister of the Interior, who is nevertheless the Minister of Human Rights? With this choice, the cabinet separates people with disabilities. This confirms that policies for chronically ill and disabled people are only made by VWS, and that is contrary to the idea of inclusive society. It should not be thought of from the care booth. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there must be a clear, government-wide plan for an ambitious implementation of the UN Convention, with objectives and targets and a timeline on which directors can really be dealt with. That plan should have been in place in the process of dealing with this bill, and it must now be put in place as soon as possible. This can be done regardless of the consultation that the cabinet intends to hold, because it is about the cabinet's own ambitions. As I said, the cabinet has an exemplary role in this, by itself being a reflection of society at all levels. This is important not only for this role as an example, but also to ensure that government policy is truly inclusive. For that must be made with people with chronic illness or disability, rather than before them. My group therefore supports the SGP amendment which states that an inclusion agenda should also be drawn up locally. Of course, it needs to be made public. Unfortunately, the legislative proposals do not contain an ambitious and groundbreaking proposal from the cabinet. I even found it shocking to read that less than 25% of the polling stations are accessible. A while ago, I was talking to my associate about it. She often prepares the pieces for me. I read it and said, no, you mean 75%! But she said, no, 25%. While it is precisely the exercise of an important democratic right. The adjustment of the cabinet is that it is added that as much as possible but at least 25% of the voting rooms should be accessible. Or at least it shouldn't get any worse than it is now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find an ambition of at least 25% sad. In this way, I do not expect municipalities to feel attracted to work on this. And the reasoning that bets on a higher percentage could lead to fewer locations being designated, I honestly find rather defensive. An inclusive society also means that you don't have to figure out where to vote in advance. That is why I want to go to 100% accessible voting rooms. I understand, of course, that this cannot be arranged directly by all the municipalities. That is why the amendment tabled by GroenLinks and the Labour Party contains a "comply or explain" clause. Apply it, or explain why you can't do it now. Then municipalities will become more accessible and they will also see this as a joint responsibility. For an inclusive society, it is important that people can save themselves as much as possible independently and are not dependent on others to go to an appointment, to go out for a day or to work. GroenLinks is an important requirement for people with disabilities to be able to travel by public transport. That must be the starting point: people can travel independently by public transport unless there are really serious circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u100	I'm sensitive to the argument in the polling stations. I also think that the discussion on public framework conditions is not the same as the discussion on framework conditions in the private domain. This has also been demonstrated today in the debate on the other amendment. Maybe we'll get to that later. However, in the end we are going to weigh up the amendments. In the explanatory statement to the "at least 25%" the government states that the effect of this amendment may well be that people who are poor should continue to walk, because there are not enough buildings yet. I'm also sensitive to that argument. I'm just saying it honestly. How does Mrs Voortman consider these arguments relative to each other? And is the graduality that is being discussed perhaps a solution to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u101	I have just said that I find the reasoning that it leads to fewer voting rooms being very defensive. On the contrary, I want the government to be offensive and to see how we are going to deal with this. I understand you can't handle it right away. I agree it doesn't have to be settled tomorrow, but I do think you need to explain why that can't be done. There are so many buildings that are accessible that I do not believe that the effect of a little more ambition would be that people should move on to a polling room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u102	I understand. I am not so much concerned with voting rooms. I'm talking about the people who are bad on their feet and should walk on. Sometimes a voting room is in a house around the corner, so you can easily go. I understand the ambition. I can hear the drive, too. However, due to the high ambition, other people may be left behind, in this case, for example, people who are badly on their feet. I'm gonna have to weigh those two against each other later. Apart from the polling stations, I would ask whether Mrs Voortman has taken into account the fact that the ambition of some other people who are poor has to walk longer in her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u103	It seems that the VVD, with the cabinet, fears that this might lead to fewer voting rooms. Mrs Van Ark says that people will have to walk on, but that would only be the case if fewer polling stations were created. I'm trying to understand the concern of the VVD. Isn't that why people have to move on because there are fewer rooms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u104	It was a sincere question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u105	Yeah, I'd really like to understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u106	I think it is a sympathetic amendment. If we adopt the amendment, we will have fewer voting rooms, which will mean that people who are poor will have to walk on. Are we not going to shoot this is perhaps a bit of a bizarre comparison in our own feet? That is the weighting I would like to hear from the authors of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u107	I do not believe that this will lead to fewer voting rooms. I think that we have made it clear in the amendment that it is necessary to state why it cannot be done. There are so many buildings that are accessible, why should this be a problem? I think it's a little defensive. I would like to see a look at how we are going to make that possible. If you think in advance that this might lead to fewer voting rooms, it will never work with that inclusive society. Accessibility of public transport has long been on the agenda. I hear that steps are being taken, that the NS with new stations are really paying attention to accessibility for people with disabilities. But it's all going very slowly. I do not think we should accept that people with disabilities should plan their journey long in advance and not be able to go on a spontaneous journey. This cannot be done now, because only one of the four stations has assistance, because many trains are not yet accessible on their own and because even new bus platforms are not accessible by wheelchair because of a high curb. It is far too common that trams and buses are not accessible, that people with electric wheelchairs are refused or that it is made clear that a favor is given to them by helping them on the bus. This even applies to lines where new trams and buses are used. I don't think that's acceptable. I therefore hope that in terms of mobility and accessibility of public transport, the Cabinet will take better care to ensure that people with disabilities are able to make equal use of it and to make more and more ambitious use of 100% accessible public transport in policy and agreements with carriers, as soon as possible. I would also like to hear how the cabinet is going to enforce that policy is going to be implemented locally and nationally not only for but also with experience experts. In the policy for the Participation Act and the Wmo this should be the case, but is this really the case? I understand that the cabinet chooses not to sign the optional protocol to the treaty yet. This protocol gives people an individual opportunity to complain to the Committee. For GroenLinks an important addition and possibility. We believe that this protocol should be signed. A motion for a resolution has been adopted on this matter. I asked the Minister for Human Rights, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to let us know what these obstacles are now for signing. There's really nothing that stands in the way of signing, is there? Then why isn't that happening? The cabinet wishes to make different interpretative statements in the Treaty. I wonder whether it should do so if the cabinet wants to take up the treaty in an ambitious way. Each states in its view that this undermines the strength and content of the Convention. Of course, that cannot be the intention. Can the cabinet justify why it is necessary in his opinion? Or is the cabinet prepared to consider which statements can be waived? So can the cabinet state why it would be necessary per statement? I'm rounding up. For the last time, I call on the government not to allow this opportunity to move towards an inclusive society. The slogan of the cabinet should be that the intensive society begins with the cabinet itself. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, 2016 should be marked by an ambitious and targeted implementation of the Convention. We really need to take steps and set goals that turn out to be a game changer for people with chronic illness or disability. More needs to be done for this than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u108	Now we are going to listen to Mrs Bergkamp. She asked to speak a little earlier. Once again, Mrs Agema was kind enough to let a colleague lead the way. After Mrs Bergkamp's contribution, I will suspend for dinner. I would also like to add that today we are restricting ourselves to the term of the Chamber. Tomorrow we will listen to the Secretary of State's reply. He has just informed me that he will answer as many questions in writing as possible. The service of everyone to everyone is really huge today. So tomorrow everyone will have the answers in the inbox and it will become clear in writing. So we are going to listen to Mrs Bergkamp. Then I'll suspend for dinner and then the rest of the Chamber's input will follow. Then we will stop for today. Tomorrow we will listen to the answers of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u109	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my colleague Mrs Agema for allowing me to speak first. It's very nice that she lets me go first. The reason for my request is that there is someone in the gallery for whom it is a very long sitting; hence. Thanks again to Mrs Agema. This is very collegial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u110	I would also like to thank Mr Van der Staaij, who you have also passed to the left or right, at least on the list of speakers. Let's not forget him at the Thanks Festival.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u111	I would also like to thank Mr Van der Staaij. Mr. Chairman. Many people have been looking forward to today, to the debate on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities drawn up in 2006. The Netherlands already signed the treaty in 2007, but it has not yet come of actual ratification. The last Cabinets, the Cabinets-Balkenende III and IV and the Cabinet-Rutte I, have therefore left this behind. Many countries have already preceded us, from Sweden to South Korea, from the United Kingdom to the United Arab Emirates and even New Zealand and Nepal. Now, almost ten years later, I am pleased that it is yet to happen. Because by ratifying, you're sending out an important signal. By ratifying, as a country, you show that you want to promote, protect and guarantee the human rights of people with disabilities. Ratification alone is certainly not enough. In order to bring about real change, ratification must be accompanied by a clear and concrete plan of action. At this point, I miss the ambition. I will come back to that in detail later. It is also about an attitude of society that is not regulated. It's about how we deal with people with disabilities. When the law for consultation was in place, someone responded as follows: a restriction for people becomes an obstacle only when they are not taken into account or because they are prevented. I thought that person put it very nicely. A restriction does not therefore have to be an obstacle if society is to deal with it properly. The purpose of the UN Convention is to ensure that people with disabilities, illness or chronic illness can participate and direct themselves. That is why I would like to start with a concrete example, namely the assistance dogs, such as guide dogs and other help dogs, which increase people's self-reliance. They make sure that people can control their own lives. The dogs can assist in daily activities, for example by helping to undress and undress, by opening doors or picking up things that have fallen. But they can also help people with post-traumatic stress disorder or children with autism. There are actually more and more developments in this area. So they make sure people can keep their lives. Therefore, the importance of these dogs cannot be underestimated. That is why I would like to draw attention to the 250 km journey that Helma Verhoeven, despite her illness, has taken together with her aid dog Banios. Let me honestly say that she has been the inspiration for me to table the amendment. When I heard her story, I thought we should sort this out. Upon arrival in The Hague, a long time ago, she offered several colleagues a petition. The request was quite simple: make sure that people with a help or guide dog are no longer refused in public spaces. Helma and other people who need a help dog often experience that they do not get access in shops, restaurants or hotels. That is why I have tabled this amendment, which makes explicit that assistance dogs and their owners should no longer be refused. 'Cause if you refuse an assistance dog, you refuse the owner. I therefore hope for a large majority to support this, as we were very united as a Chamber when the petition was received. I also hope, of course, that we can reach agreement on other points as well. As far as I am concerned, the new law is based too much on individual cases. I would like to pay particular attention to Mr Van Dijk. If anyone runs into anything, that person has to report it. Only then can we see if this can be adjusted. But as far as I am concerned, as much as possible should always be taken into account in advance with people with disabilities, precisely to prevent them from running into anything, from getting any further and from taking matters into their own hands. That is also the underlying idea of the vision of my colleague, Mr Otwin van Dijk: the obligation to achieve general accessibility so that we can achieve an inclusive society. D66 also strives for an inclusive society. I therefore agree with the objective of the amendment. On the basis of the debate and the interruptions, I have made the following considerations. The norm in society must be changed. Society must be accessible to everyone, not just when you call the bell. There is now, ten years after the Treaty has been drawn up, a little ambitious plan for the cabinet. At home I printed the plan of approach with my color printer and I regretted it. My color cartridge was empty, and frankly, so was the plan. This amendment gives it the impetus it so badly needs, an impetus that makes society truly inclusive. Over the past few weeks, I have spoken a lot with Mr Van Dijk. The necessary exchange of views has also taken place in this debate: whether this amendment is feasible and whether it does not have too great negative unnecessary consequences. I have to conclude that the author has listened, not only to me, but also to others, and has adapted the amendment. To sum up, these are simple general adaptations, which will make accessibility more widely accessible, as a general accessibility with a basic character. It can be phased in. It should not be a disproportionate burden and the individual effective adjustments are additional. Moreover, if general accessibility is good, expensive specific adaptations are no longer necessary. In addition, I have also listened to Mr Van Dijk as an experienced expert. He knows what it's like to run into all kinds of physical barriers and behavioural barriers. His persuasiveness about the necessity and feasibility of this means that his struggle has also become my battle. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he shares my interpretation of the amendment and whether he is still seeing things that we have overlooked. My question is also whether the Human Rights College does not need more human power or resources. I'm going to move on to another subject. The national government has a very important role to play in drawing up the plans. The government also has an example. I thought Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks also said very nicely that the Second and First Chambers have an exemplary role. My question is: is the Empire already working UN proof? Are the departments, for example, well accessible? I'd like a response. The direction must be in the hands of the government, at the Ministry of VWS, with this Secretary of State. How's he gonna fill out this part? How is it ensured that other ministries remain connected? VWS is coordinating, but of course there are a lot of other ministries that also play a role if we really want to make ratification a success. How is good coordination and clear division of labour ensured? The municipalities play an essential role in relation to the UN Convention. As Eleanor Roosevelt said: "Where do universal human rights start? In small places, close to home, so close and so small that they cannot be seen on any map of the world." I think that is very well formulated. Municipalities therefore have a very great responsibility in this area, which is closely in line with the tasks which have been assigned to them as a result of decentralisation. Many municipalities have therefore already created an inclusion agenda. For example, the municipality of Amsterdam and Zuidoost district have been working on such an inclusion agenda for a long time. Can the Secretary of State indicate what's going on with these municipalities? How many already have an inclusion agenda or an implementation plan? D66 believes that administrative arrangements should be made. Together with the SGP, I have tabled an amendment on it so that it is also legally anchored. That is how important it is to us. In addition to the government and the municipality, there is actually an important role for everyone to make society inclusive, to ensure that everyone participates. In addition, everyone is needed. Where many people with disabilities have long been looking forward to this treaty and where ratification is received with 'expectantly beating our hearts' and with 'whore', there are still a lot of people who have never heard of this treaty. We should do something about that. To change a society, to get an inclusive society, society itself is needed, everyone is the move. That is why I would like to see an awareness campaign conducted, such as the Delta Plan Dementie. This plan has not only the prevention and cure of dementia and better dementia care as an objective, but also a dementia-friendly society. Can the Secretary of State investigate how we can organise such an awareness campaign, so that it is made clear what obstacles you can encounter in everyday life and what others can do to be helpful? I am considering a motion with Mr Van Dijk on this matter. We are late in ratifying the treaty. There is nothing more to be done about this, but let us take advantage of it. Many countries have already preceded us. We can learn from that. Using best practices, good examples from other countries, we can make a flying start. Gold for them perhaps still the law of the restraining edge, we have the chance to enforce the law of the stimulating disadvantage. I see the Secretary of State recognizes the comparison. I can't wait to hear his reaction. I am also very curious about what the Secretary of State thinks of the experience abroad. What did he learn from that? What does he think, for example, of the German plan of action with twelve thematic areas, in which work is being carried out step by step over a period of ten years? Is that something that could be interesting for the Netherlands? What is he taking over from the foreign examples and what is not? The latter is of course also interesting to know. Ratifying must also mean implementing. The government actually acts as if it is all well arranged in the Netherlands and little more is needed. I remind him of the interruption with Mr Van Dijk about our experience of going out to dinner: well, well, well, if you're talking about accessibility... there really are still a lot of physical barriers. It really hasn't been properly arranged yet. There are many prejudices, for example about people with a slightly intellectual disability. So there's still a lot of work to be done. I would like to hear a response to that point of ambition. The Secretary of State considers that a very elaborate plan leads to a top-down approach, i.e. from above. But that doesn't have to be done, show Finland, for example. Although the Convention has not been ratified, it does have a very good plan of action, a plan built from the bottom up and where there are many contacts with experts from experience. And that's just so important, because you shouldn't talk to people because they know what they're up against. The monitoring of the UN Convention will be carried out by different bodies. You have interest organisations, the UN Committee, the Human Rights College, as well as various supervisors, the Health Inspectorate, the Dutch Health Authority and the Education Inspectorate. Several parties have a role to play, but how do we ensure that all these parties know what to do when we have, hopefully, ratified the Convention? How are we going to ensure that they know the implications of the Treaty? The government is responsible for the proper implementation of the UN Convention. She has to answer for that, too. Two years from now, we're gonna have to report on what's going on. A special committee on the rights of people with disabilities will then also make suggestions and recommendations. Does the Secretary of State expect the current approach plan to lead to good scores or is he going to increase the level of ambition? Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with a list of measurable benchmarks so that the Chamber can also monitor progress? I now come to a completely different subject, namely sexuality. The starting point of the UN Convention is that people with disabilities have equal rights, including in the field of sexual health. I am pleased to see a number of people waking up when I bring up this subject! The social recognition of the right to sexuality of persons with disabilities, but above all the recognition of the specific and necessary aid, is still a very big taboo. The photobook "A piece of love" shows the often grateful work of the sexually nurturing Tika Stardust. It gives an insight into a world that is actually surrounded by taboos. Where Stardust is received with coffee in some settings, it is allowed in other settings: through the back door inwards and outwards, without contact with the accompaniment. In many institutions, the sexual needs of people with disabilities are denied and sometimes even found scary. It is sometimes even thought that the work that Stardust does is punishable. In the written round of questions, I also drew attention to this subject, the restraint surrounding sexuality. The Secretary of State acknowledges this reluctance among caregivers and parents. He referred in his reply to the "Talking with Sexuality," aimed at people with intellectual disabilities, who were in the process at that time. In the meantime, this note is there and it shows that little use is made of existing scientific knowledge and theories in the development of educational material. Similarly, no specific intervention targets are set in the programmes developed. It sounds very technical, but the message is actually: a lot of programs are not proven effectively and more is needed. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I always see the Secretary of State perform forcefully in the news when it comes to drugs. Then he's back at the Our Lady Guesthouse talking about ecstasy. I would also like this Secretary of State to act in this way when it comes to this taboo issue, in order to remove that taboo from sexual education and care. I think he can play a very important role in this. He can also serve as an example in this area. In his response, I would like to hear how he might become the figurehead of this subject. On a number of points, the government has issued interpretative statements. These statements are interpretations and should not be reserved, which means that we do not abide by the Treaty. The declaration issued by Article 23 states that the best interests of the child are to be taken into account in the balance of interests. We are all in favour of that. However, the Council of State calls the interpretative declaration a disguised reservation. Can the Secretary of State explain how this declaration complies with the right to form or to establish a family? In what way can the advocacy of interests, in which the best interests of the child prevail, ensure that people with learning difficulties cannot find a family? I find that unclear in the answer and I would like to hear a response to that. I agree, also in view of the time, with the SP's questions on public transport. There's a lot of bumps there. I'd like to pay more attention to the Tickets Act. In Article 29, my interpretation of the Treaty differs from that of the Secretary of State. The objective of the UN Convention is to guarantee the political rights of people with disabilities. However, the use of voting rights is not always self-evident for people with disabilities. In Nivel's investigation among relatives of people with intellectual disabilities 7% indicates that they cannot vote because they are not facilitated, not helped. For people with physical disabilities help in voting is allowed, but someone who could use help because of his mental condition is on his own. I would like to make it easier for people with intellectual disabilities or mental illness to be given explicit assistance in voting at their own request. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Of course, we also made the assessment of the extent to which there may be intimidation and influence. That is why we have included in the amendment that there could be support for a member of the polling bureau. Someone has to state that they want help, and then a member of the polling office can provide support, allowing this group of people to vote. I would like to hear a response to that. I'll deal with the bureaucracy. The UN Convention should facilitate participation and ensure that people can participate. However, when rules, procedures and new rules take up all the time of parents to take care of their sick or disabled child properly, there is little time left for participation. I quote from a letter about this from Mr Rob Schepers on Facebook: Every time anticipating changes and in the meantime monitoring that care, which is so badly needed, will not be put at risk for a moment. In his letter he indicated the dilemma and appointed how much time his friends, contacts with bureaucracy and rules have been lost. This applies not only to parents, but also to partners and carers, people who sometimes really don't see the forest through the trees. Another example from We Stand Up! In my opinion, all the spokesmen who have mentioned it have the student film and literature science at Leiden University, Pauline Gransier. In her note, pamphlet, petition she writes that she spends two days a week arranging her daily life, because the bureaucracy is so large. Two days a week, in which she does not belong to her hobbies, concerts, travel, reading, philosophy and films. That's also time at the expense of studying. Bureaucracy therefore reduces its participation and runs counter to the objective of the UN Convention. This Secretary of State has reformed. We support the objectives of the reform. However, he has also arranged something else: too much regulatory pressure and bureaucracy for people who have to do with care. The Secretary of State spends a lot of time consulting with chain partners and administrative parties. We believe it is important that the Secretary of State should now also focus on individuals, people who are faced with a great deal of regulatory pressure and bureaucracy in their daily lives. I therefore call on this Secretary of State to take this to heart once again and to take it seriously. This would be one of my great wishes for the UN Convention. Something has already been said about the optional and optional protocol. I agree with the questions asked. Why can't we sign that protocol right away? I did not think it was clear from the answer either. So I'd like to get a reaction to that. Then I come to the Caribbean Netherlands. I must say that I expected us to see a little more of the Caribbean Netherlands in this Chamber, or the representatives of the Kingdom, as I should say. So I ask my questions directly to the Secretary of State. The adoption of the Convention is governed by national law. This applies to the whole of the Kingdom, including the Caribbean Netherlands. However, the government has indicated that the Treaty will not apply to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands for the time being and that an inventory of existing regulations and policies under the behavioural obligations will first be carried out. When will that be ready, so I ask the Secretary of State, and at what time can we expect implementation? I realise that perhaps we should not be too critical, because we have taken ten years of our own, but the Caribbean Netherlands is part of the Empire, and that is why I think it is really important that that progress should be made there. What is the Secretary of State's ambition in this respect? I come to my almost final subject, education. As D66 of course, we cannot ignore that. Good education is the best tool for people to get a fair start and equal opportunities. It is necessary that children with disabilities also have those opportunities. We have seen in the decentralisations and transitions that things regularly go wrong in the transition, that children fall between shore and ship. I think it is very good that the OCW and VWS Secretary of State are looking at these situations and are really trying to solve them. The Education Committee will discuss these issues extensively in an AO next week. The Secretary of State has previously stated that with the advent of appropriate education children with disabilities receive good and adequate education, but there is still a lot to be done. For example, there are thousands of home-seaters who do not receive an appropriate educational location. How can we solve this with each other? I'll come to a conclusion. At the beginning of my speech I indicated that I hoped that we would reach agreement today. I believe that everyone is convinced of the usefulness and need of an inclusive society. Let us also celebrate ratification together, because this means so much to so many people. But let us also see it as a starting point, because we, the government, business and society, still have so much to settle with each other. The aim must be a society in which everyone is judged on what they can do, and in which the contribution everyone can make is appreciated. I'm assuming everyone wants to make the best of their lives. Let us therefore ensure that everyone has the opportunity to do so, so that a restriction does not become an obstacle to being able to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u112	There is another question from Mrs Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u113	A number of debates have rightly raised the issue today that we should not fall into the trap of supporting the pursuit of an inclusive society, which means that we cannot also make a number of critical comments on proposals to get there. This was also shared by Mrs Bergkamp, I understand. We have just seen that she also made a contribution to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk and a number of colleagues. Debates have now taken place in which a number of parties, including Mrs Bergkamp herself, have made a number of comments. How does she relate those interrupting debates to her contribution just now, in which she said she saw the amendment as positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u114	Last week I had a lot of contact with Mr Van Dijk on the first amendment. There is now an amended version, and I am very pleased that Mr Van Dijk has today indicated that general accessibility is a basic principle, and that by naming it as a standard in the law we do not make it more complex with each other. In addition, he stressed once again that it should not lead to a disproportionate burden. I too was concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it clearly states that it must not lead to a disproportionate burden. It also contains the phaserity. I share the premise that something must change. If the cabinet had made a more ambitious plan, I might have made a different assessment. But I think this is an extra push in the back. Moreover, I have also stated that I do believe that the College may need more resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u115	I know D66 as a party that always stands out on its state-of-law profile. However, I hear a number of concepts that sound very nice, such as 'basic','reasonability', 'fair' and 'conductivity', but which still have to be determined in practice. So I imagine we're going to reverse the order as well. The plan of approach was made with among others the entrepreneurs at the table. They have sent a letter to a number of spokesmen in the Chamber in which they say they would like to show that they do not need the laws. They ask that they should not immediately impose coercion on them, but that they should show them what they are worth. That call from the entrepreneurs must also sound good to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u116	We received that message. We have certainly also looked at the proposal with a legal eye. Fairness and reasonableness must be shown in practice, as Mrs Van Ark knows, I think, like no other. That applies to all new laws. You get case law and case law at the college. In addition, if the Chamber feels that things are going too far and that things are going in the wrong direction, then Mr Van Dijk's amendment also includes the possibility of a General Administrative Measure. I am therefore reassured in that regard. But of course you don't know everything in advance. That is why I consider the explanation and response of the Secretary of State to be important. I'm sure I'll take that into account. My question is therefore whether we have overlooked things that have not been discussed in this debate. The consideration and response of the Secretary of State are also important to my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u117	Maybe I can give Mrs Bergkamp the following. D66 always claims to be a liberal party, which rewards its own initiatives from society over legislation; legislation should actually be an ultimatum remedium. Here is a group of entrepreneurs who say they are ready to work on making that inclusive society and who do not want to be imposed on the toughest instrument, legislation. I think it would be a credit to a liberal party if it were to hear that call from society first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u118	What is more liberal than equal opportunities and equal rights for people? As a member of a liberal party, that is a very important starting point for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u119	Let this be a great little bridge to my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u120	It's been practiced!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u121	Apparently, yes. Mrs Bergkamp talks about equal opportunities and equal rights. But D66 is very much responsible for the current situation with the high own contributions for many facilities in which many people with disabilities find themselves. I have also had an interrupting debate on this with Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA. I'm back on point 8 of We're getting up!. That statement is that we should not pay more for our health as a result of our disability than someone without disabilities. Does D66 endorse this thesis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u122	I think it's important that people get opportunities to participate. That is also why D66 has supported a number of laws, including the Participation Act. We think it is important that you look at what people can do and that they get full-time jobs. Like Mr Van Gerven, we have asked questions about our own contribution. For example, we have made a great effort to abolish the parental contribution in the youth care sector. With a number of other parties we have also concluded a number of agreements, for example for additional budget to the care sector. We will keep a close eye on the processes relating to our own contribution, but I have to say that the picture is very different. As far as the Wmo is concerned, we have told the municipalities that there is a possibility for assistance. We've also made sure that they get a budget for that. We would like to know whether people are using them when they are getting too many own contributions and can no longer pay them. I also think there is a limit to this. However, we have also facilitated that municipalities have an important role in this. They get a budget for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u123	In We Get Up! Examples of young adults with restrictions in this case are those who have lost €2,000 to €3,000 extra to all kinds of own contributions. We read in the media that the own contribution in the Social Support Act is used by municipalities as a milk cow. Don't let us pay for the fact that we have a permanent limitation. If we take that point of departure to heart, should we not end all these own contributions to a group of people we know are dependent on these facilities and that they have lost that own contribution anyway? I have an amendment on this in preparation. Would D66, on the basis of equal opportunities for all, and certainly for people with disabilities, consider this amendment favourably and perhaps wish to support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u124	Of course, I always look very favourably at the work of my fellow Members and so I will also look seriously at the amendment. We are not opposed to our own contributions, but we do believe that they should be affordable. Municipalities play a role in this. I agree with Mr Van Gerven that, of course, people should be able to find that opportunity. Municipalities should also facilitate the people in it. It is a legitimate question which I also indirectly ask the Secretary of State. What about this own contribution and the possibilities of municipalities to facilitate people in it? It all has to be affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u125	Very handy, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u127	At 7:45 p.m., we're going to listen to Mrs. Agema. Until then, we're having dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u128	I'm reopening the meeting. We have three more speakers to attend. The first is Mrs Agema of the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u129	Mr. Chairman. Enthusiasm everywhere in the presentation of the coalition agreement "Building Bridges," because what was in it? After so many years, the Netherlands would finally ratify the UN Convention on Human Rights. Who could be against that? Well, we're not against the content of the treaty. On the contrary, I would say, come on. But what a bunch of hypocrites out there in box K and in the hall. Ever since the Kunduz Accord, measures have been taken by a different majority to torch the care. 105 austerity measures have been provided for in this House over the last three years, in this House, for example, the removal of the Agema funds, the additional money for staff for the disabled institutions, the cessation of funding and thus the closure of sheltered housing, the removal of 90% of the daily spending budget, the halving of domestic aid, the removal of compensation for the own risk, the halving of the income compensation of the STCG (Law on long-term sickness and the disabled), the removal of accommodation facilities, the restrictions on upper-regional transport and even the removal of the rollator, the basic running aid for older people with disabilities in particular. All thanks to the Labour Party! We had better deal with most of the issues in the treaty three years ago than we have now, better than in the presentation of the coalition agreement. However, the cabinet says that it is high time to ratify the UN Convention, because we have, after all, gone ahead with 127 countries which have already done so, and we cannot, of course, be left behind. What a bullshit argument. Now we must ratify because we cannot remain behind countries such as Afghanistan, Congo, Ethiopia, Mali, Morocco, Mozambique, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan, Turkey and even Syria. Is it waiting for ratification to the Islamic State? Well, let's take an example of countries that don't even know basic human rights, where equality between men and women doesn't exist, where there's not even a sidewalk or buses with a low entry and where you're stoned or killed for nothing, let alone that as a disabled person in those countries you can have anything of a standard of living. So what is the value of this UN treaty? Because of the huge savings in health care, education and social services, we are now meeting the demands much less than more. And now this Secretary of State is presenting the ratification. If the calf drowned, I mean. I also wonder what exactly the flag is like when it comes to the points of the Treaty. Have we been measured how we stand now? How is it measured whether we are moving in the right direction or in the wrong direction from now on? What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms in relation to the present situation? What is not good now and will be dealt with soon? When exactly can people with disabilities count on what? In fact, I think it is quite worthless that we do not have that in front of us. No one really knows what we are talking about, what should be better and what should be regulated at what time. That brings me back to the passage from the coalition agreement. It says: 'The Netherlands will ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, provided that the following obligations can be implemented gradually'. But what kind of weird line is that? It doesn't say anything at all or it says a lot. In contrast to what you would expect, it has opened the door to the cuts this cabinet has made in recent years. So you act in one and the same sentence like you're taking care of something and doing the opposite at the same time. This is how we know the cabinet again, because what is a gradual introduction if, in the meantime, the level of provision is finally broken down? The treaty requires people with disabilities to be able to direct their own lives and make their own choices. They should also be able to count on support where necessary to participate in society on an equal footing. Of course, that's what we're here for. The government must also ensure adequate healthcare for people with disabilities. The person or patient must have the autonomy to decide for himself what he or she is doing to give direction to life, to make free choices about his or her own dependence from an independent point of view. I couldn't agree more. Or this: the equal right of people with disabilities to live in society with the same choices as others and the obligation to take effective and appropriate measures to make it easier for people with disabilities to fully enjoy this right and participate fully in and participate in society. Beautifully put, I'd say. It's all a little woolly, but I think we'd already arranged all this in our country. However, by halving the home aid and abolishing the AWBZ we are farther away from home than ever, literally. If you refuse to take care of yourself as a needy person today by someone who doesn't treat you well or treat you well or who even mistreats you, you can have the rambam. One-sided termination of your contract and you're out on the street. You can also look up the judge or that's usually what happens... you can keep your mouth shut. We've seen it so many times. If you want to stay in your own house and need adjustments, a municipality can refuse them at any time. And why? Because last year this Chamber arranged for its own contribution to be up to 100% of the cost. So you're forced to move after all? But to which house? What do the numbers say? There's a shortage of half a million life-support homes. The cabinet destroyed 60,500 nursing homes in three years. Last year, our country fell from the legal right to care for 600,000 people in need of help to a situation in which municipalities have freedom of policy. Helping to run the household, counseling and house adjustments are all dependent on the whims of the municipality in which someone lives and the cuts nowadays are therefore not at all self-evident anymore. Less of self-speaking than three years ago. Freedom in making choices for one's own dependence no longer exists either. Do you need a day's spending to make sense of the day? It has also been deleted for 90% and the nursing home in which it took place is closed. What's left is the community center, if it's not also cut off. That is a much worse situation than it was three years ago when the coalition agreement was concluded. I can go on like this for a while, and that's what we're gonna do. For example, public authorities should ensure that people with disabilities are supported in finding and keeping jobs where necessary. The government is supposed to employ people with disabilities and encourages business to do so. Nobel, but how many people with disabilities has the government taken on their own over the last three years? How is it going to encourage business? Forced? What else did the cabinet do? Oh, it cut the social workshops off and cut the benefits. Another minor, and another major deterioration compared to three years ago. Public authorities should also ensure access to public transport, aircraft and regional taxi. Of course, the government is trying its stinking best. I sincerely believe that there is no country with so many adapted pavements, platforms, buses and government buildings. However, we have also seen that when Mr Otwin van Dijk entered the Chamber, a great deal of encryption had to be done. I looked out my eyes. I'm a designer myself, have a master degree in my pocket. I think, with my interest, I've been fairly interested in accessibility and adaptations of buildings and homes. That it was all so far-reaching, I wasn't aware of that. I think that goes for a lot of people. The question before us now is whether everyone everywhere should Otwinnize every building, even if no one with a wheelchair ever comes to visit or only once a year. What's that? I understand the desire for accessibility from the bottom of my heart, but it must all be feasible. To be honest, I didn't figure that out. Then I come to something completely different, something that really disturbs me in no measure. A blind guide dog gets into the taxi almost nowhere, because most drivers nowadays are Muslim and they find dogs haram. That is the truth that is not spoken here. Taxi drivers are also often too lazy to throw a wheelchair in the trunk. A fat, fat min. Back in the day, a cab driver was a guy with a neat suit and a tie to find every street blind. It was someone who was courteous and helpful and also managed to tell a nice joke. Now it's mostly rabble and scum that a wheelchairer or someone with a help dog just leaves behind, whether or not in the cold and the rain, and no one doing anything. It's deep, deeply scandalous. It's a really big minus. The cuts in transport to target groups are leading to one pile, e.g. student transport together with the transport of children with multiple disabilities to day care. It is not convenient for both groups and again a deterioration compared to three years ago. Article 14 requires States Parties to ensure that persons with disabilities can enjoy the right to freedom and security on an equal basis with others and are not illegally or arbitrarily deprived of their freedom, that any form of deprivation of liberty is effected in accordance with the law, and that the existence of a disability in no way justifies deprivation of liberty. Let us also do a reality check on this. Isolation and the use of psychopharmaceuticals are still the most normal thing in the world in our country. Figures show that there is no reduction. With the additional cuts of half a billion euros on the nursing homes, which are still booked, dear PvdA, you can assume that there are even fewer staff left on the work floor and fixation and the administration of psychopharmaceuticals are only getting worse, because "they are getting so quiet." A very, very fat min. Finally, I would like to mention the right to a decent standard of living. It is clear that there is no progress here either, but a great decline compared to the times when the coalition agreement was concluded. The towering own risk, the loss of compensation for one's own risk, the halving of the WTCG, the increasing own contribution of up to 100% of the cost, the disappearance from the package of more and more medicines, as well as bandages and, for example, enemas, are causing people with disabilities to become more and more under the minimum standard of living or even go all the way through the ground. Another fat min, dear PvdA. Are we just being negative? No, we're in jubilee. I'm going to explain that now. This terrible United Nations, which, among other things, with its terrible refugee treaty and its hate campaign against our Black Pete, is now making possible what we have done after three years of opposition and many motions and amendments have failed. For we expect the government to implement this treaty to the letter after ratification, just as it does with the Refugee Convention. Hey, that means the cuts need to be reversed. Isn't it? Or does this government measure with double standards and choose which treaty is useful or not and what we do or do not comply with? Does she choose for refugees but not for the two million people with disabilities? In a few years' time, are we proud to be at the top of the list of countries that did not just ratify but do something with it? Or is it ratification and "bye" for the rest? I hope it's the first. I await the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u130	I call Mr Van der Staaij of the political group of the Reformed Party. Oh, there is another interruption by Mr Otwin van Dijk. Mr. Van der Staaij, I'm sorry. Why don't you sit down and have some?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u131	I have a brief question for Mrs Agema, if I may. She mentions a lot of mints. A number of mins were by the way in the previous cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u132	Nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u133	... in the Participation Act or the Act working according to ability...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u134	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u135	... without Quotum law also supported by the PVV. But that's not what my question is about. The PVV now has the unique opportunity to at least experience the PVV in this way, in addition to mins, to put a plus, namely by doing something about the general accessibility of this country. So I would like to ask Mrs Agema: help with the plus and help all those people with disabilities who want to go somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u136	I think that is very sympathetic, but Mr Van Dijk himself is personally responsible for all the things I mentioned: closing the nursing homes, halving the household aid, halving the WTCG, removing the compensation for one's own risk. And now you're gonna be a little noble? I really don't think it's possible! I will take a good look at the amendment, but I have serious doubts about it. I have great doubts about the wheel that these people are likely to be turned in front of their eyes if it is not ultimately carried out or if it does not meet the expectations. I also have great difficulty with the fact that small entrepreneurs are going to be put at a high cost. So I just haven't figured it out yet, but I think it's really hypocritical that you're gonna walk around here a little nicely if you break up first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u137	I hear Mrs. Agema's well-known song, which she has learned well. But she's got...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u138	It's the truth!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u139	...the unique opportunity to finally help all those people with disabilities. And the treaty and the amendment are about more than just high costs, because that is not the point. It's very basic that everyone can just join in, that you can go in somewhere, that web guidelines are followed when you build a new website. I actually expect some more warm words from Mrs Agema instead of the words "I'm going to look at it again" or the standard belt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u140	You know, that standard belt just happens to be very true. Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party is personally responsible for the loss of 60,500 nursing homes between December 2012 and December 2015. I'm having a hard time with that. If we compare the situation with the situation three years ago, it has become much worse. I like playing with this amendment again. However, I will certainly look into it. For example, I have great difficulty with the websites referred to by Mr Van Dijk. If someone starts a business, why should their website be accessible? You're a fool if you don't have an accessible website! But we're not going to make it public, are we? I think that's too crazy for words!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u141	We agree sometimes and sometimes we don't. This is not just about care, but also about living, public transport and all aspects of life. I would like to hear one proposal from Mrs Agema, apart from the concern she says: I would like this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u142	I think I mentioned about ten points that looked better three years ago than they do now. I've pulled about ten points out of the treaty and analyzed them in the last 12 minutes and 46 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u143	In Mrs Agema's view, the health care situation was better three years ago than it is now. I just indicated that it's not just about the care, but also about living, for example. In what area should it get better? Let's take the theme home. What does Mrs Agema think should be improved on this proposal? I would like to hear one proposal in the area of living.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u144	I didn't just talk about the care. Mrs. Voortman really didn't listen. I have also mentioned the social workshops, the benefits and the income position. I've been talking about a very wide range of subjects. I know the Building Decision very well. It's been my job for years. I have that master degree in my pocket. There are a lot of people who, when they make a new building, want to make it as accessible as possible. I was indeed surprised when Mr Van Dijk came to work here, how much still needs to be adjusted. That's not because people aren't nice or want it taken care of, but because there's ignorance. You're gonna have to force people to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u145	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u146	I totally disagree with that. There's no architect at the moment who can put together a normal building. And then there's gonna have to be demands coming up again? I have another question for Mrs. Voortman. Where does the Building Decision fall short? I find the Building Decision very accessible. It speaks of corridors that must be at least 110 centimeters wide and not 85 centimeters as before. Those are all improvements. You can't put any more thresholds in new buildings. Mrs Voortman has not been specific in explaining where the Building Decision is not satisfactory. She has not been concrete in mentioning all new buildings that are accessible to people with wheelchairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u147	Now, Mr Van der Staaij, who was in the waiting room for a moment. Thank you, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u148	Mr. Chairman. It has been a lot of talk in this debate about inclusive society. Since when do we talk about the role of disabled people in our society? I looked back and came up with a debate in 2004, when it was the first time I talked about dealing with disabled people. That term was used many times back then. Of course, I could not fail to read in that debate what the SGP leader Van der Vlies had said. He said at the time: disability policy has been characterised for years by an impatience that cannot be overcome. The key question is how to get the train to speed. He then called on the coordinating secretary of state to sit behind his fellow executives. I found the tone of that debate striking. Ten years ago, there was a bit of that impatience that you hear back now. Apparently, it's all going awfully slowly. I'd like to take that emotion into this debate. I do not want to call too quickly for something to be better or to recapitulate all the objections. Yes, the SGP Group is also impatient, especially when I look at this ratification process alone. It has been a long time since the signatures were signed under this UN Convention on People with Disabilities. It is not an unnecessary luxury not only to ratify the Convention, but also to remove further obstacles experienced by people with disabilities. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to legal care. The lawyer in me can't fail to notice this. We often enthusiastically say "yes" to treaties. We prefer to put a cup on top of that. Then we think: we are all doing well, but it is good that all the other less developed countries are being taught. Afterwards, in all these treaties, you often get to discuss what is and is not an "every binding treaty clause" to which the judge is entitled. Then, again, there appears to be a lot of discussion and a lot of consequences that we, as legislators, had not thought of in this way. So I also think that legal care is an important point of attention. Even if we say 'yes' to this treaty, we want to do so with conviction. In fact, we are at the beginning of all kinds of new changes. It is not for nothing that 'awareness' is a key word, in the Treaty itself, but also in the documents, where I regularly encounter it. Unknown makes unloved and reveals often loved. That is why I ask the Secretary of State how he himself intends to contribute even further from this treaty to the much-needed awareness. Mr Otwin van Dijk set the example of the adjustments he needed in this Chamber. Which led me to believe that it's not the first time someone with a wheelchair is a Member of Parliament. Apparently we have already made adjustments in the past, but in the meantime we had forgotten again how things were going and what had to be done. So it's not enough to get to the time. It is also evident that it is a challenge not to have to reinvent the wheel even within the same organisation. Municipalities also have an extremely important role to play in supporting adults and young people with disabilities, illness or chronic illness. The plan of action even makes it clear that cultural change and renewal must certainly also be achieved at local level. I have therefore tabled, together with Mr Bergkamp, an amendment to give this further concrete hands and feet. At the heart of the amendment is the obligation for municipalities to periodically indicate in the planning obligations they already have how they intend to implement the Convention and thus contribute to an inclusive society. It is intended that the municipalities develop an integral plan for the entire social domain, i.e. for the Social Support Act, the Youth Act and the Participation Act. It would be nice if municipalities were to develop this in a local inclusion agenda and if people with disabilities and their representative organisations were actually involved in drafting it. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to this amendment. As I said, legislation is always a good thing to look very closely at the impact of certain provisions. Article 2 of the Convention states that there is an obligation to make effective adjustments, unless they constitute a disproportionate burden. That immediately raises the question of exactly how far that goes. Mr Otwin van Dijk and others have tabled a proposal, an amendment. Moreover, this amendment has been amended. In the interrupting debate with him, I referred to an earlier text of the amendment, in which it referred to 'general provisions' and not to the somewhat more limited 'general accessibility' for people with disabilities or chronic illness, as is now stated in the amendment on item No. 17, that amendment to item No. 12 replaces. How does it go when you're an entrepreneur in an old building where there's a hall upstairs where only occasional meetings are held? Is the installation of an elevator or stair lift a disproportionate burden? That kind of question naturally comes up in practice. In an interrupting debate, I have already asked some questions, as have my fellow Members, about the scope, the impact of the amendment. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. I'm gonna say something else. If it were a motion, I would immediately say 'yes' to it, but now that it is an amendment, I have some doubts. In an amendment, you have to meet higher requirements of legal certainty. The current wording is somewhat more limited than the wording in the Amendment No. 12. Furthermore, 'general accessibility' is not only about physical accessibility, I understand the amendment, but also about goods, services, labour, education and living. How concrete, how clear is it now for everyone what is expected in practice under such a provision, should it reach the finish line? And does this provide sufficient legal certainty? I would like to put this question to the Secretary of State. Article 4 of the Convention points out a number of direct obligations: training for the implementation of the Convention and consulting persons with disabilities through interest groups representing them in policy areas affecting disabled people. How is this designed within the different ministries and other public bodies involved? Colleagues have already pointed out that the UN Convention also brings with it obligations in the field of international cooperation. This is urgently needed, because although millions of people have been able to escape poverty in recent years, people with disabilities often fail to do so. The help of public authorities and development organisations is needed to ensure that programmes are also accessible to people with disabilities. How is the cabinet going to implement this obligation and how is cooperation between the various ministries secured? How does the Cabinet use the expertise that is present at Dutch and international networks that represent people with disabilities in the countries where the Netherlands supports development programmes? The Dutch Coalition on Disability and Development has that knowledge on the shelf, so I advise the Cabinet to use it. I would like to draw attention to the eight interpretative statements that the government has made or intends to make. Colleagues have already said that there have been some critical comments from various organisations, but the Council of State has also pointed this out. It seems that some interpretative statements are reserved. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State to the criticism of the various interpretative statements. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the statement in Article 10 on the right to life. Why should it be necessary to supplement this statement by establishing that it is in line with the existing case law of the European Court of Human Rights on the interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 2 of the ECHR? What practical consequences does this have for the prowess of unborn life? How does the government intend to make more work of the statement that, fortunately, the government still makes that also handicapped unborn life is fully protective? How does the government intend to give more form and substance to this protection than at present? What possibilities does the government see for reducing the number of abortions of disabled children through proper information on disability? What opportunities does the government see for providing more help to women who expect an unborn child with disabilities? One of the first parliamentary questions I asked in 1999 was about a statement by a physicist. He said that for incomplete life, as he called it, actually was no longer a place in our society. That life caused too much expense and too much trouble, so he thought it had to be possible to kill that life even after birth. Luckily, that called for a storm of criticism, but it does show how thinking around people with disabilities can develop if there is no counterweight. In that year the Disability Council also came up with an impressive statement, which I like to repeat here: don't prevent us, including us. From the patient and client movement, the criticism sounds that the current proposal for adaptation of the Election Act does not allow people with disabilities, illness or chronic illness to participate fully in the elections. I recognize that point and I share it. That is why I supported Mr Bergkamp's amendment. It has already explained this amendment. Finally. I had to smile for a moment when, in the preamble to the UN Convention, I found words that sounded familiar to me, namely that the family is the cornerstone of society and is entitled to the protection of the state and society. Those are words that we don't hear here every week. The fact that the family is seen as a cornerstone of society and that there is broad support for it in the Chamber is good for me. I understand today that the treaty is very embraced. This means that, in addition to individual rights, we must also pay attention to supporting the unity of which the disabled person may belong, and that we must continue to keep the support of the family in mind of the way in which we keep the tax system, the tax plans and the like in mind. With these joyful words I like to close.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u149	That joy is shared by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u150	Mr. Chairman. A few years ago, in my time as a spokesperson, I forgot what that was like, but now I remember again I was present at a concert of United by Music in Sliedrecht. On the stage were only people with disabilities. People had flown over from the United States and other parts of the world, who together with the Dutch musicians played the stars of the sky. I was in the hall and I really didn't know what I heard. At the end of the evening one of the artists entered the stage and spoke to the hall. He said, "I am a limited man to you, but I would like you to replace the word "limitation" with the word "property." My limitation is that I'm autistic, but if my trait is that I'm autistic, you're gonna look at me in a different way." It made a deep impression on the room and it really touched me. But when I later talked about it with others, I also heard another side: just mention what I have by the name; then you also know that I have to make extra effort. And I understand that, too. Whatever you call people, people with disabilities are people who want to be a full part of our society, just like all other people who visit restaurants and museums, work, shop and go out. Today too, and also in the Netherlands, they face obstacles, figuratively but sometimes also literally. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities today. I think that is an important step in the emancipation of people with disabilities. Emancipation is a core value of the VVD. The VVD therefore shares the pursuit of that inclusive society, a society in which everyone can participate. We are happy to take responsibility for this. The fact that people are more important than systems and that the system is there for the people and not the other way around is a very important driving force in a number of important reforms that have been carried out in recent years. I am referring to the decentralisations. All conditions are in place to stop reducing people to a ticking list but to be able to fully service them. After all: so many people, so many wishes. And in the case of people with disabilities: so many possibilities, but unfortunately so many opportunities. During the 2014 General Political Reviews, the VVD asked for attention to the story of Tim, who came up against the walls of organizations when he came to the municipality, the UWV or his employer with his specific concern. Also last Thursday, on World Disabled Day, we heard from people who have a lot of practical experience themselves how annoying it is when you spend so much time organizing things that are within reach for others. Sometimes it's about material matters, such as the long time it may take to apply for a wheelchair or the extra travel time you have if you can't get on the station in your hometown but have to go to a neighbouring place because assistance is provided there. But through all the stories the plea for recognition can also be heard. Don't talk over my head with the one pushing my wheelchair. Don't laugh if I don't talk like you. Don't skip me when you're polling on the street. I think that this is a very justified plea for which we all, both inside and outside politics, have a responsibility. We also invest part of that responsibility in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u151	It is always very annoying to interrupt a fine plea and to assess when that can be done. The VVD just talked about the decentralisation and the work that someone sometimes has to do to organize things. I call it applying for a new wheelchair. I said in my speech to the Secretary of State that the rules and administration are really driving people crazy right now. As a counterpart to decentralisation, we now see that people are working on it for a large part of the time. Does the VVD agree with me? Will she also ask the Secretary of State to really see this as a priority so that people can participate instead of spending a lot of time on their administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u152	This is indeed a problem. Unfortunately, it has been a problem for several years; I share that with those who have said it. A few years ago, when we still had the AWBZ and the Wmo old style, I received daily emails from people who were behind 0900 numbers and forms and said: I really want to see a person across from me. I think it has been one of the main motivations in the decentralisations that you can get to a place where your local representative is, your local democracy, and where you get someone you can ask with your questions and by whom you are viewed as a human being. That is the objective. We see that it does not yet work in a number of places, but that is where we are going. Fortunately, there are also very good examples. I think it is a good thing that the cabinet and the municipalities unite these examples and show how it should be done. In the end, the goal is that you have a person opposite you and not a 0900 number or a form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u153	I share that with Mrs. Van Ark. I have talked to a lot of people lately who are happy that the municipalities now have that responsibility, but they say that it has really increased. That is, of course, partly due to the transition. There are many changes and changes in regulation. It is true that the regulatory pressure has increased rather than decreased. I hope the VVD supports my plea to ask the Secretary of State to give this priority next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u154	I will always support pleas for less bureaucracy. I would like to supplement the plea and say that we in this Chamber are also reluctant to implement all kinds of rules in the interim. I sometimes look at the voting list on a Tuesday and at the result of the voting list and wonder whether we have achieved more or less bureaucracy in the Netherlands. So the Chamber can also look at itself. The UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities is a programmatic convention. States can address each other about the implementation of what they have promised. The fact that this Convention has been signed by so many countries is important for people with disabilities, who do not yet have a full position throughout the world. Very often you hear that everything is well arranged in the Netherlands and to a large extent it is. However, there is still room for improvement in the Netherlands as well. To what extent should these improvements lead to legislative changes? Or are they questions that need to be answered in society? We believe that the government has come to the House of Representatives with a balanced proposal. We have gone through Dutch legislation with the UN Convention in hand with a comb. We have looked at where changes are needed in Dutch legislation and regulations. In a number of areas, the government is proposing changes. The VVD agrees with these changes and the way in which the government has implemented the adjustments. However, I would like to draw attention to the interplay between international regulation and our own national legislation. It is clear that international conventions have implications for what we are doing in the Netherlands. The VVD is convinced that we ourselves must keep the primacy of what laws we prescribe. The government has rightly indicated that the Treaty does not have direct effect and that the articles are not binding on everyone, except for those cases already mentioned in another Convention. After all, the decentralisations and legislation with which people have to deal with life-long and life-wide care has shaped the vision that questions and solutions for people with long-term care should be answered and found in the neighbourhood of people. With the adaptation of the Tickets Act and the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of Disability or Chronic Disease when it comes to the provision of goods and services, the government has brought Dutch laws and regulations into line with the UN Convention. In addition, the government has taken responsibility for those matters which do not need to be regulated by law, but which are incredibly important in the recognition and acceptance of people with disabilities. The common goal of giving everyone the opportunity to participate is widely supported by representatives of local authorities, entrepreneurs, healthcare providers and healthcare seekers. In short, everyone has joined forces to make this project a success. The plan of action taken to this end offers a number of directives. The plan of action should inspire and not provide a blueprint. After all, every situation is unique. The inclusive society must ultimately shape people's minds and hearts. When I was an alderman, I asked the council for disabled people to organize a day in the village to find out what it is like to have a disability. With various employees of the municipality, people who set up the public space, people who made planning plans, people who were in contact with the entrepreneurs in the village, we went on the road. That wasn't easy. In a wheelchair you had to try to find your way over aisles, where sometimes unpacked boxes obstructed the already bad passage. Try pinning when the ATM is above your head. With glasses that mimic visual impairment, you were sent in the Albert Heijn to try to get the weekly offer of the vegetables. Outside you could experience that not every sidewalk is easy to take on wheels. The drawing board is never the same when you've experienced something in person. No matter how many laws we make in this country, it is ultimately about the people who shape this in practice realize who they do it for. Talking to people, not people, is the motto. That has been said before here tonight. The people with disabilities have shown a great deal of willingness to think along with the government and with the entrepreneurs. This group of people ranges from local advisory councils, the Coalition for Inclusion to experience experts who would like to share their advice. Following on from Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Keijzer, I am certainly referring to Mrs Verhoeven who even walked the route from Cuijk to The Hague with her assistance dog in order to draw attention to the importance of these dogs. Unfortunately, it is not yet automatic that she can go anywhere with her assistance dog while, she says, you don't leave a car of €40,000 with the key in the ignition outside either. In fact, it is common for people to think that they have illegally scored the dog's deck, where the word "assistency dog" is on it. I have read the Implementing Act of the Convention in such a way that the extension of the Equal Treatment Act on the grounds of disability or chronic illness and the provision of goods and services make this situation a thing of the past. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether this is indeed the scope of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u155	I heard Mrs. Van Ark say that a plan of action is there to inspire. I hope, however, that a plan of action is there to tackle, to achieve concrete goals and to identify means by which you achieve those goals. It's not just for inspiration, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u156	As far as I'm concerned, I've indicated that it's a success when it's in people's heads and hearts and when it's close to people. For example, I have given an example of what a municipality can do with cooperation. That's why I said that you'll never sit behind the drawing board the same way again if you've experienced something in person. That is what we want to achieve in the end. It is therefore very good that we are discussing this law today, but ultimately it is about what people do with it. For me, that is the function of the plan of action. When that plan triggers conversation and meetings, something really changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u157	Surely it's not a plan for a local alderman, a citizen or an architect to do nice things with? This is a plan of the cabinet's approach, isn't it? It's got to have clear targets, right? Many groups indicate that it can be a little more ambitious, that more can be done and that it needs to be more concrete. Is the VVD Group not behind this encouragement here and now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u158	I'm very excited about the plan. I realize there are other sounds to be heard in the Chamber. When you realize that you are in the Netherlands with 17 million people who are very different, the ambition is to have the courage to let go of this in society. You must dare to do this, also in view of what we have done in recent years. I think that's guts and ambition. I'm excited. We will also have to see it, because I agree with everyone who says that it might have been possible to do so a little faster in recent years. But I'm excited about this. I'd like to see how that goes in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u159	Following Mr Segers' comment, I am also inspired to ask a question. I have also indicated in my term that I find the plan of action an inspirational document as an introduction. But it doesn't really get concrete anywhere. That brings me to my questions to the VVD. What concrete objectives does the VVD...............................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u160	In the end, it's about people being able to participate fully, within the possibilities and limitations they have. Society must fulfil the framework conditions. I will come to a number of other issues which are outside the decentralisations, such as the Building Decision and the Environment Act. I think we're past the time when the government was able to impose a blueprint. In my story, therefore, I also make a statement about the role of the government and the role of society. Perhaps I see a slightly greater role for society than for the government than for other groups in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u161	In my view, most speakers have said that the government, society, business and people with disabilities themselves play a role in this. At the end of the day, something will have to be done to start a movement in society. I suppose the VVD doesn't think it'll be okay with no commitment or waiting. Not much has been improved in the last ten to twenty years. Which pendulum does the VVD want to turn on to ensure that we can apply acceleration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u162	I think there is still a way to go, but not that "very much has not improved." I have recently spoken to many people from organizations who said: we are now sitting around the table in compositions where we did not used to sit. I mention, for example, the Royal Horeca Netherlands or Retailer Netherlands together with representatives of client and patient organisations. I believe that Mr Van Dijk himself has his own experience of this. Something happens when people sit around the table and watch together how they'd want it to be different. That's the oil spill we're trying to achieve. I do believe that parties have a responsibility, but I have noticed something different about the relationship between these responsibilities and other groups in this Chamber. For example, the argument of the entrepreneurs is: we've been around the table from the start, we're at the start, don't force ourselves into what we want to show ourselves right before departure; we're entrepreneurs, we want to distinguish ourselves from our customers. I'm very sensitive to calls like that. In addition to making these laws, the government certainly has a role to play in making public buildings and public facilities accessible. In 2015 it can no longer be the case that someone in a wheelchair would not be able to enter the municipality to pick up a passport. And someone with a visual disability should simply be able to listen to a government website instead of reading it. A number of things are also laid down by law with society. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the concrete consequences of the treaty are for private parties. For example, what is meant by the obligation to make reasonable adjustments if necessary to ensure that persons with disabilities can enjoy rights and freedoms on an equal footing with others? In the explanatory memorandum and in the further report, illustrations are given, for example, that it is reasonable to read the card to a person with visual impairment in a catering establishment. That seems very reasonable to me. All menu cards also available in Braille would, especially with the strongly changing maps that a little restaurant has nowadays, be too far gone. It would be too far-fetched as an obligation, because we welcome entrepreneurs, and there are many who want to go further in terms of hospitality or the need to respond to groups of consumers. The Treaty and the legislation as it stands now weigh the interests of people with disabilities and others in society in a balanced way as far as we are concerned. Especially with the recently adopted Environment Act, which also includes an amendment on the accessibility of buildings, and the recently adapted Building Decision, we can say that significant steps are being taken to fill in the framework conditions of a society in which people can participate, even if they have a limitation. It will not be surprising that the VVD believes that legislation is not always the best tool to achieve your goal. Hence my argument that change must come from society itself. That is why I support the government's line. As has been said, the UN Convention is a programmed treaty which, in my party's view, should not be used as a Christmas tree. For this reason, the VVD will be reluctant to vote in favour of amendments to this Treaty. Where amendments create unacceptable regulatory burdens or financial consequences for entrepreneurs, the VVD will also oppose them. In this context, the Government states that general provisions need not be created under this Convention. But the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk and other colleagues calls for general accessibility. I am very curious about the government's weighting of this amendment, especially since regulatory pressure and unsuspected financial consequences are very undesirable, but also because the plan of action speaks precisely of an approach with entrepreneurs. I'd like to conclude with an incident from the life of my personal example. That's my grandfather. In recent years, my grandfather's vision of an eye disorder has been getting worse. As that happened, my grandfather noticed that that led to more and more annoyances among other people. He ran into people in the grocery store, and then they got mad. That's what bugged him. That's what's been happening all the time. At one point I went to him for coffee and then he had such a big yellow button on his sweater and on his jacket with the text in large letters "I'm visually impaired." I thought it was a pretty heavy button. When I asked him what it was, he said, since I've been wearing this button, people aren't mad at me anymore, they're helping me. And no matter how small the example is, it symbolizes the way I look at understanding and helping people with disabilities in our society. You don't impose that from above with rules and things, but that comes from below: small-scale societal changes based on mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u163	I can see again what it's like to be in a debate with Mrs Van Ark. It's always very nice to hear her talk about her vision. We have always or actually very often agreed on this, but when it gets more concrete, I find it a little more difficult. I thought: let me take an example and see if we agree. I assume that Mrs Van Ark also believes that there are responsibilities for accessibility in the Empire and in the municipalities. However, the availability of municipal documents often leaves a lot to be desired. This ensures, for example, that people are not well able to take note of decisions taken by the city council. Does Mrs Van Ark think that this is a point that should indeed be improved? It is about participation in democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u164	What I have argued is that we have here a treaty that applies to our society and that we want to put it down in a certain way in society. As far as the VVD is concerned, it does not lead to an agenda with all kinds of concrete points. We must lay down the points where they belong. In this particular case, I think it is very important that it is properly discussed in the municipality. As a municipality, I wouldn't have to think twice about adjusting this. Matters to be dealt with by the Empire, such as the Election Act or the Equal Treatment Act, must be discussed here. That may be more difficult than coming up with some very concrete points in this debate, but I think it comes from within in the long term, especially if you look at the current network society in 2015. Maybe it's just a little more difficult to shape, but in the long run it comes from the inside and that's much more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u165	Let me summarize the answer: it's up to the municipalities. But then I'll take an example at a rich level: the accessibility of the House of Representatives. It leaves a lot to be desired, too. The cabinet's proposals for the renovation still leave a few things to be desired. Does Mrs Van Ark think that the House of Representatives should be fully accessible? It's our own house, our own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u166	Of course, I think we should be accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u167	But we're not!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u168	Then we'll have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u169	In Mrs Van Ark's speech, I heard that she took account of arguments and comments put forward by entrepreneurs in particular. I get that, because I think it's important too. At the same time, the interest groups have also put forward a number of arguments and wishes, for example, that we should accept it and that we should focus on that general accessibility. Since Mrs Van Ark is so explicit about the entrepreneurial interests, I am curious to hear how she has taken account of the concerns of the interests and patients' organisations in her consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u170	It is quite right that a great deal of attention should be paid to this inclusive society. That is indeed a responsibility of all of us. In my speech, however, I indicated that the role of the government should be defined differently in the public domain than in the private domain. This also has to do with the number of services in the public domain where people cannot make any other choice. An entrepreneur with his own property, his own shop building, his own website and his own resources can stand out. In a manner of speaking, it could be skewed in the last century. That is then a choice of the entrepreneur and it is then up to the visitor or the customer to choose to go to the competitor if there is no possibility to enter. I find it difficult to act as a government. That also has to do with my view of society. It is different from the public domain, because as a government we have a different responsibility for the framework conditions. I fully endorse the overall call for an inclusive society with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u171	People with disabilities, of course, do not only move in the public domain. They also move in the private domain. We Liberals and Social Democrats share the principle that people should be able to develop as much as possible, and that, in my view, means that we should both agree that people should be able to move in all these areas. And there is still a great deal to be done in society. I would like to hear from Mrs Van Ark how she weighs not only the entrepreneurial interest but also the disability interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u172	I agree with Mr van der Staaij that we do not start from scratch. We have the General Law on Equal Treatment and the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of Disability or Chronic Disease. We have Article 1 of the Constitution which requires equal treatment and excludes discrimination. I think it's very important that we have those cases. So we have already started that movement and with that we can of course continue. I think that Mr Van Dijk's amendment goes too far, particularly because he is moving in the private domain. In addition, I consider the call from entrepreneurs to be very important. They will say, "We are at the table. We want to show what we are worth, and do not throw the door into our face right now by taking the hardest of measures. Let us first show what we are worth."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u173	I do not have a question for Mrs Van Ark, but a request to the Secretary of State for written reply. I see that a lot of amendments have been tabled and it is a good use that they have a price tag and cover. Now I miss all the amendments, and that is why it is my question to the Secretary of State if he can give us an insight into the costs of the amendments that are missing them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u174	I assume the Secretary of State heard you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u175	Just before the historiography: the SP has tabled an amendment and that is covered. There's really just cover there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u176	Mr President, let me get the facts straight. There is no cost and no coverage in the amendment to item No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u177	There's just cover there, but you don't agree with that. The PVV disagrees with income-related contributions. Say that, because this amendment is covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u178	Do you have anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u179	Oh, yeah. I have a question for Mrs. Van Ark. She said in her speech that she is going to look very closely at whether entrepreneurs are not overburdened by, for example, Mr Van Dijk's amendment for general accessibility. Now, over the past three years, there has been a balding in social services and the VVD has imposed a huge number of own contributions to people with disabilities or increased existing contributions. I therefore have a question for Mrs Van Ark. Does the VVD agree with the VVD statement 8, which states that we should not pay more for our health care than someone without disabilities as a result of our disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u180	I have heard Mr Van Gerven's contribution. I didn't say anything about it in my contribution, but I had the feeling that I live in a very different Netherlands than the Netherlands from the speech of the SP, because that was so negative that I didn't recognize myself at all. We should not be too light on this issue. Thanks to our health care system and the facilities we have, the Netherlands has a position at the top of the list of countries with good facilities. We also want to provide these facilities together. That is not an easy task. In recent years, we have implemented a number of reforms to maintain the quality of care and also to ensure the longer term. We do so in a system where there is solidarity between people who are sick and healthy, young and old, poor and rich. That is the answer I give to Mr Van Gerven. I'm proud to live in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u181	Mrs Van Ark does not answer my question as to whether she agrees with the statement that people with disabilities should no longer pay for their care facilities and their accessibility than those who are healthy. Let me ask you a different question. It also states that there should be no deterioration in the position of people with disabilities and access to facilities in the future, not even in certain own contributions. We are not looking at the past, in which the VVD was responsible for a very strong breakdown of social services. Once the treaty has been ratified, is the VVD prepared to stop the further destruction of social services in all kinds of areas that are particularly hard hit by people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u182	If I answer now, it's like I'm saying something about the breakdown. I'm throwing that far from me. In recent years, we have carried out a number of reforms that have not always been easy for the people they concerned. Changes are always difficult and sometimes they were changes with a big impact. However, it was changes that maintained our solidarity in care and the quality of care in the long term. A deterioration according to the definition of the SP is not always a deterioration according to the definition of the VVD. We are looking not only at today, but also at tomorrow's day. We will sometimes ask people for things, but we also want to keep people's care up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-15.u183	Thank you. We'll move on tomorrow. Then the cabinet will answer. The Secretary of State will also be present at the general consultation on the Indian issue and the backpay. This probably means that we will not be able to start the debate until 7 p.m. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence here.
