ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. In the province of Groningen there is a disaster in slow motion; I have said that before. The Research Council for Security advises to communicate fairly and openly with the population, but that seems to be quite a challenge. A monumental farm, De Haven in Onderdendam, declared uninhabitable because of earthquake damage, turned out to be State property for two fifths and for the rest of the NAM. That is strange, because the Minister has always said that the NAM, a private and commercial company owned by Shell and Exxon, will compensate for all the damage. I quote from the VAO of 14 February 2013 on the extraction of gas in Groningen: "I am concerned that the NAM will ensure that all damage caused by an earthquake is fully compensated. The point is that she will pay all the damages in full." On 17 January 2014, the Minister said: "The State pays with reduced natural gas revenues, but the NAM has to compensate for all the damage'. Does the Minister consider that a company like Shell, which last year had a turnover of 432 billion dollars and a profit of 22.6 billion dollars, cannot pay its own damages, for example, that two fifths of that farm? Does the Minister really think that the Dutch taxpayer still needs to step in to buy such a farm? Is this an exceptional, individual case or does the State own more properties via EBN? Does the State also own more earthquake-damaged monuments? Why didn't the Minister communicate about this openly and honestly before? Why did this only come out of the subpoena? This property is a national monument. This includes legal obligations. If you own a national monument, you have to maintain it. What efforts has the Empire made to maintain that monument, how much has it cost to date and on whose account that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am surprised at Mrs Van Tongeren's questions. She wonders why I wouldn't have communicated openly and honestly. I would have said that the NAM would have to compensate for the damage, which would now turn out to be different. Of course, I've communicated openly and honestly. Everything that happens around Groningen goes in openness and honesty, like everything else in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The NAM wins natural gas there and thus also has to compensate for the damage caused by the extraction. I have calculated the Chamber exactly how that works out for the State in practice. The proceeds from the extraction of natural gas go to the State. With the first gas that comes out of the ground, the distribution is 64/36: 64% for the State and 36% for Shell and Exxon, who work together in the NAM. If more gas comes out, over the multiple the distribution is 85/15: 85% for the State and 15% for the NAM. The State is responsible for 95% of what comes out of it and 5% for the NAM. I've agreed with the NAM how we're going to split the costs. Normally, the cost of extracting gas will be reduced to the total profit, but it is agreed with Shell and Exxon that these will not go from the top of the profit, but from the bottom. This means that it is not regulated by the 95% ratio for the State and 5% for the NAM, but by the 64% ratio for the State and 36% for Shell and Exxon in the NAM. I also communicated this to the Chamber in a letter dated 17 January 2014. In that I put that again in smells and colors. How that can be a misunderstanding is a big mystery to me. Shell and Exxon must of course bear their share of the costs through the agreements made many decades ago. On that basis, work is still under way. Then the purchase of the properties. This is the first building purchased. It has been chosen for the construction that the NAM and EBN co-operating in the gas building, where EBN is a 100% State participation, are both mentioned in the Act. In all purchases made subsequently by the NAM, this has not happened anymore and only the NAM has been mentioned. All that doesn't change the principle that the NAM buys properties. The NAM incurs all kinds of costs related to natural gas extraction. Eventually, these costs lead to fewer returns. Those who collect most of the revenue, the State, ultimately bear the bulk of the costs. This is an open and honest way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u3	Can I summarize the Minister's story in such a way that this has happened once and that it is not going to happen more often in the future that the State becomes directly owner of a property that is uninhabitable because of the earthquake damage? Is there anything else the Minister can tell me about maintaining the monument? Is the Minister prepared to set up a register that will also allow Groningers to look into, which building has been bought and which one has been demolished? It doesn't have to be paid, but people have to be able to see what's going on with these properties. There's all kinds of rumors in Groningen. A publicly accessible register with the absolute basic information would help. Of course, the Minister knows as well as I do that there is a big difference between directly paying for damage or contributions via natural gas benefits, as stated in the letter I have with me mentioned by the Minister. The taxpayer only contributes through reduced natural gas revenues. A company with such huge profits could have bought this farm entirely. I am sure the Minister agrees with me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u4	I quote from my letter of 17 January: "This means that 64% of the costs of resolution of damage and prevention measures and the viability programme will be borne by the State through reduced natural gas benefits. This is an estimated amount of €144 million per year for the State." That is the best possible clarity. Mrs Van Tongeren has asked whether it is more common for the State to be directly involved in these purchases via EBN. Materially, that doesn't make any difference. We're in the gas building via EBN. The NAM, Shell and Exxon, they're in there, too. Those proportions are fixed. It doesn't matter whether or not we're mentioned in a deed. It did happen in the first act, not in the act after that. Materially, according to the percentage I have just mentioned, we are bound by the settlement of the damage that is currently occurring there. I do not know exactly what is going on with the settlement of a monument that has been bought up and with which something must now be done. There have been over 30,000 reports of damage, large and small. If the Chamber wishes to have further information on a particular issue, I would like to find out. However, I cannot shake it like that. It wouldn't hurt if the Chamber wanted a register. For the time being, I assume that the Chamber wants what Mrs Van Tongeren is asking for, namely insight into the premises purchased by the NAM. These are buildings that have been purchased one time because of the fact that this is a poignant case and another time because they need examples to try out the preventive measures. There may also be other reasons. I'm certainly prepared to create a register listing those properties. In fact, it will only contain listings of properties, no purchase amounts, because that takes place between buyer and seller. I'm not just gonna publish that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u5	I am pleased that the Minister accepts my suggestion to consider the possibilities for such a register and to make it clear to the Groningers. The Minister still has to explain to me what two fifths of 64% is like, but that can also happen at another time. If you own two fifths and you say you have to pay 64% of the cost, you don't get your Cito test. Does the Minister, as co-owner of a monument, feel the responsibility under the Monument Law................................................................................................................................................. There are a lot of fantastic monuments in Groningen. If the State gradually becomes the owner of these monuments, the State must also take responsibility for maintaining them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u6	Maintaining is not the same as renovating or restoring, all of which are different concepts. I think it is wise to do good things for Groningen with those properties that are being purchased in Groningen, depending on the quality of the property. That is one of the many things that are being addressed at the moment. In a letter I have already taken into account the obligation, the 40% and the 60% in relation to the 64% I was talking about. I could do that now, but that would be a bit of a technical explanation. Maybe I can refer to my letter of 17 January 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u7	I still have nine seconds to say that the State owns two-fifths of this farm, that the Minister says he has to pay 64% of the damage and that at least those numbers do not match. If this can be technically explained in another debate, I appreciate it. I understand that the time for this is now too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u8	I will use 9 seconds to say that the first disc of the distribution of natural gas is 64%/36%. This means that 36% of that revenue goes to the NAM and 64% to the State. We have agreed with ExxonMobil that we will distribute the costs according to that disc. Not according to the other disc, which could have been, but according to this disc, which is the most advantageous for us as a State. That's how we charge the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u9	I must honestly say that I am not getting very much better from the Minister's answers either. Firstly, I wonder why he said so explicitly and confirmed that the NAM must pay the costs. Then why doesn't he say that the State is one of them with reduced natural gas revenues? Secondly, the question remains as to how the money entered the EBN account if the State contributes to the costs due to reduced natural gas revenues. However, an amount of €537,000 has been coughed up from which EBN has received €385,000. How did that money come into the account of that partnership, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to buy up buildings that the Minister suggested the NAM would do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-5.u10	I didn't suggest anything. What kind of weird question is that to me? It is suggested that I do all kinds of things under the covers with regard to natural gas extraction. No way! Of course, I have constantly said that the NAM is liable for damages. The NAM has to pay for the damage. However, in a letter to the Chamber, I explained in detail how it would work out in practice for the state coffin. That's the division I just mentioned. I have quoted from a letter that has been in the Chamber for almost a year and a half. The Chamber knows exactly what's going on. The NAM wins the natural gas and is therefore liable to damage. The NAM must ensure that the damage is properly compensated by the Centre for Safe Living. I do not say that every time: we also have a letter dated 17 January and it says... then I can tell the whole story again. That's no way to work!
