ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u1	I welcome you all, in the Chamber and in the gallery, and all those who follow the sitting through the screen. In particular, I welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. He is seconded by Mr Scheltema and Mr Hammerstein as government commissioners. They are available to answer technical questions arising from the examination of this bill. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. There is no doubt that confidence in the quality of justice is high. We all want to keep it that way. The simplification of the procedure can play an important role in this. The same applies to digitalisation. Almost everyone believes that this development should take place. We've been working on this for a long time. We have had technical briefings and the subject was discussed in debates. We have very recently been on a working visit to spir-it, the ICT company of the Justice Department. We have been informed in detail about how this is conceived, elaborated, tested, tested and further improved, in order to introduce it as responsibly as possible. This happens slice by slice and together with the users, according to the scrum method. Because it's quite an operation. This applies not only to the legislation that we are discussing partly today, but also to all those people who are now working on this development and, above all, to all those people who are going to have to work with it. I am referring to the people who will be working on it professionally from the legal or legal point of view, but also to those who have to or are allowed to sue digitally. The SP welcomes the fact that individuals andzzp'ers can continue to sue on paper. More exceptions are possible if the court sees reason for doing so. This is very important, because access to justice must not be blocked for people who are unlucky enough not to have the necessary facilities or knowledge. Of course, there are still people without the Internet, or people who just can't get along with a computer. What about DigiD, anyway? A lot of people already have to use it, but not everyone. Sometimes people can handle it badly. How does the Minister see that? Do they still have enough access? Healthcare insurers recently asked for a text-verification. That is extra safe, but it brings with it the necessary complications for directors. They are no longer able to do their job properly in this way. Let me give you an example. Will this be requested when filing a lawsuit? How does the government deal with that? How are things going in the future with these kinds of cases? The SP has privacy and security high priority. The Court is now working on authorisation models that incorporate peels into the digital system. For example, medical documents may only be inspected by the seeker himself and his or her authorised representative. Login by private individuals can be with DigiD, which I have some concerns about. I remember the DigiNotar debacle. Not only was privacy at stake, but the whole system was out. This already led to the digital role of at least the courts being out for about a week. No one could log in. We want to prevent that at all costs. How does the Minister see this? In any case, it is reassuring that the College for the Protection of Personal Data becomes more closely involved in the definition of the security measures. During the development of the system, continuous screening will be carried out on the state of the security technique and on whether the systems should be adapted accordingly. An independent third party will carry out audits and security tests. When the system is ready, it will be periodically and ad hoc, if I understand correctly. It is also good that ethical hackers are being deployed. Is there anything to be said about that? User alerts about errors detected will have to be taken seriously. I'd like to hear a reaction to this. How's this going? In addition to digitisation, we will be given one basic procedure instead of a subpoena and petition procedure. There will be more room for the judge to see what is appropriate in a particular situation. The SP thinks that's a good thing. However, I have one more question about the following. Several claims can be combined. That is efficient for a number of reasons, and I understand that. However, this also means that a canton court will decide not only on a canton case, but also on a related action which would currently be dealt with by a multiple chamber of the civil court. This could be complicated cases. A case before the canton court can be dealt with without a lawyer, while legal aid in such cases can be crucial. That is particularly true when someone is threatening to screw up his own business. Can the judge intervene in any way? How am I supposed to see that? It is admitted that cooperation with the lawyer at first did not go as it should. Much has been done in the meantime to improve cooperation, as I read in the documents, but we continue to get signals from the lawyer that feedback, for example about an emergency channel, is absent. And that is when I read in the note following the report that is linked back to the legal profession by means of follow-up talks. So I keep hearing two scenarios. I'd like to hear from the Minister how this is possible. Is mutual trust optimal? This seems very important for the successful implementation of the KEI programme. The emergency channel I just mentioned is still under investigation. I do not find that entirely reassuring, but that research is being carried out, but not that this is happening now, if I understand it correctly. An emergency channel must be provided if the system goes wrong, so that the whole justice system is not immediately flattened. When will the investigation of an emergency channel be completed? Is the necessity of this recognised? Another example of the legal profession is the system link we call "system to system." It is very important for large offices, but the technical details are delivered too late, so that the right software cannot be developed in time. So that's gonna be helped the first time. Another concern is that the lawyer feels that she has not had enough opportunity to test the web portal so far. That's all still to be done. At least that's what I'm assuming. I would like to hear from the Minister how the implementation of the whole system and the programme in cooperation with the lawyer is now going. The budget for each phase is about one year. If the phase has not yet been successfully completed, the government states that the new phase is not yet in progress. As a matter of fact, care goes beyond speed, but in the first phase it did not go completely smoothly. Only two asylum lawyers are trying out KEI. I have already mentioned this in general discussions on justice. Why is that? Does this also mean postponement and therefore an additional cost in the budget of justice? Each month I have heard that postponement costs EUR 1.2 million, and that is purely technical costs. I have heard that it would even be EUR 7 million a month. Can the Minister confirm that? That would be very annoying. Nevertheless, I keep saying that care is about speed. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this and get the promise that all this will only be implemented when the practice is fully ready. So it should not happen with the knife on the throat because otherwise the financial benefits will only be achieved later. I have two points to make before I get to the financing of the whole thing. Do I understand that the Council of State and the Supreme Court will have their own system, for which they also have the responsibility? How convenient is it to have and continue to use different systems side by side? Then who has the ultimate responsibility? Is that the Minister, the Council for Justice or each for his own system? Almost three years ago, my predecessor, Jan de Wit, tabled a motion calling on the government to establish a uniform system for the collection of the Registry Law. I would like an update on the implementation of this adopted motion. Indeed, the minister's predecessor made a promise to look at existing differences in the practice of collecting the Registry fees and how they can be removed in the development of KEI. I would like to hear what is going on here. Then I come to the financing of the KEI, Quality and Innovation case law programme. Unfortunately, the KEI programme does not come by itself. We need financial resources for that. These must come mainly from the case-law itself, whereas the case-law has already suffered a great deal in recent years. Think, for example, of the revision of the judicial card. Courts had to implement innovations without additional resources, while the store remained open. This is also reflected in the annual report of the case law for 2014 and in the report of the visitation committee-Cohen. All of this was already a feisty task, and KEI is at the door now, while financially the rack is already out. The quality of justice is high, as I said, but this is mainly due to the involvement of the judges, counsellors and staff, and despite the lack of funding from the government. I think it is important to maintain this quality. I assume the Minister agrees. The implementation of KEI is very important, but its success depends very much on the government's will to make this a success, and thus to provide the necessary resources; however annoying the Minister may think this message is. The cost is for the benefit. Don't make a cheap price. First, we were impressed by the former minister that 2016 would be fantastic, because then we would see the results of KEI. From the field, however, other sounds sounded. 2016 would be a disaster year, financially. KEI is still far from being fully implemented, while there is a financial mission coming from the Empire. Then Minister Opstelten wiped these concerns off the table, but now his successor is being pushed with the nose on the facts. Indeed, 2016 does not seem to be a pleasant year financially. The price agreements up to 2016 are based on investments for the benefit of KEI, as far as they were known at that time. This was therefore not correct or at least incomplete information. That's what it turns out. We have already discussed this in general consultations. Shouldn't the post-2016 price agreement negotiations also cover what had been paid out if the correct information had been used in 2013 and with retroactive effect? Shouldn't compensation be made after all? Should the KEI programme produce less or later savings, the case law itself will decide. That's what this government thinks. That's the last I understood about the Minister. Or do we have to negotiate it ourselves? But how are we going to prevent a vicious circle? Delay leads to millions of euros of extra costs per month. The case law itself has to cough up, but cannot do so because there are already deficits. There is no money to walk in the delay or to catch up etc. Then we are no longer talking about a year of disaster, but about potential years of disaster. Possibly, as a doomsday scenario. Or does the Minister see this differently? How's he gonna prevent this? How flexible is the government when it comes to it, or rather naturally? The project is now longer, three years longer until 2020. Until then, the incidental costs are a total of 195 million euros higher. The deficits of 15.5 million in 2015 have been able to cope with justice itself. This also applies to part of the deficit of 43 million in 2016. However, there are still deficits in 2017 and 2018, in the order of 34 million euros and 10 million euros respectively. As of 2016, the case law will also have to deal with a financial task, i.e. a reduction, which is also based on the assumption that KEI would lead to savings from 2016. Once again the question to the Minister whether he sees that this is not possible. And what's he gonna do about this? I'll be on the staff then. It is not possible that this programme will remain without human consequences in the future. The Court of Justice itself takes account of the fact that 43% of the administrative functions at the Registry of the courts disappear. That's a big deal. We must avoid a workforce battlefield by recognising it early and developing policies for this purpose. I think the sooner you get there, the better. To what extent are the following points addressed? Will it be used on as much natural course as possible? Has there been consultation with the staff themselves and participation? Exactly how much budget has been allocated within the Quality and Innovation Justice Programme? Will there be a work-to-work policy and a mobility centre set up? Is retraining and retraining also offered? Is the Minister prepared to outline exactly how many jobs are phased out by 2020? These questions to the Minister are important questions for my group. How is human capital ensured as well as possible? Finally. When we talk about modern justice and digitisation, we must not forget that justice is mainly human work. We can digitize a lot, but judges are not computers. Whether you deliver the case on paper or the contents are in the computer, the case still has to go through the judge's head. I fully agree with the Dutch Association for Justice on this point: the judge has the right to high-quality justice. The judge stands for quality and will therefore have to continue to examine the file and reflect on the case. There must always be sufficient time and space for this. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you for your input. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Helder of the Freedom Party, with a speaking time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today is part of the Quality and Innovation Justice Programme, abbreviated to KEI. KEI is a programme that the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Justice Council are working on together. The programme will run until 2020 and the procedures in civil and administrative law should then be digitised and modernised. In summary, the legislative proposal proposes the following amendments. There will be one clear basic procedure instead of the current, different subpoenas and petitions procedures in civil law. Shortly after the opening of the procedure, the oral procedure, i.e. the hearing, must take place. The introduction or tightening of time limits for the various procedural acts and digital litigation are made mandatory for all parties to proceedings, with the exception of natural persons and informal associations who sue without a lawyer. Anno 2015 it is of course clear that justice through the paperwork is no longer of this time, burdensome and time-consuming. My group therefore supports the importance of digitisation of procedural acts. Nevertheless, there are a few critical comments to make on this bill. First, the KEI business case in the Annual Plan of Justice 2015 showed that the costs for this project are not EUR 60 million but EUR 200 million. So it seems that the costs have become more than three times as high. In general consultation, the Minister assured the Chamber that this was not the case. The difference between the amounts is that in the second business case a better and more comprehensive understanding of all the costs associated with this programme has been provided. The jurisdictions of punishment, cantons and supervision are now also brought under the functioning of the program. Furthermore, the costs of training, guidance and training have been mapped out. The cost of work-to-work guidance has also been determined. According to the Minister, the business case now amounts to 140 million "more" than was reported in the first inventory by the Board. My group is not entirely convinced of this. It remains to be seen that the first estimate does not cover all the costs. Of course, a person can forget something, but this difference is simply too big. It raises the question of why the first estimate did not look at all the other items, at least for a few other important items. Then the difference wouldn't be that big right now. So can the Minister explain that choice? In any case, it is clear to my group that additional costs should not be borne by the hard-working taxpayer, not even in the form of further cuts in security or by offsetting budgets allocated to the various organisations. That is not acceptable to my group either. I make these remarks explicitly here when dealing with this bill because the Minister said in the same general consultation that he does not have any additional resources to deal with budget overruns. So I quote his predecessor, 'not an old sock in the ministry', which his predecessor could draw on. The second point of criticism. In order to avoid as many problems as possible of the introduction of this bill, digital litigation is being phased in. But the past teaches us that government and ICT, diplomatically speaking, are not a happy combination. My group still has fresh memories of the problems with INDiGO and DigiD and is therefore not convinced of the successful introduction of digital litigation. Drag with paper files is "I've just said that, however, not of this time anymore and digitisation is the way forward, but the ICT hazard has to be mentioned. Does the Minister see this danger? If not, why not and if so, what is he going to do to prevent the greatest possible extent of the risk? As a former lawyer, I also see a number of points of interest, not critical points, but points of interest, for practice. In the first place, the service of the summons should no longer be effected by official bailiffs. The plaintiff is now himself responsible for the summoning of his opponent. If the defendant does not report to the court on that date, service must be effected. You feel on your clogs that this will in many cases lead to delays, because if the parties have a dispute with each other, the chances are very high that the other party will not come if he has not been officially summoned by a bailiff. What does the Minister think about this? I'd like a response to that point. Another point of concern is that the court is bound by time limits within which the hearing is to take place and within which a judgment is to be followed. In civil proceedings, the oral procedure shall in principle be followed by a judgment within six weeks, unless special circumstances prevent it from being required by the court. For example, this is proposed in the new Article of Law. The reference to these particular circumstances is in line with the current Article 8:66 of the General Administrative Law Act. The draft law states that the six-week period will not be feasible in all cases, given the wide diversity in size and complexity and the fluctuation in the inflow of cases. Strikingly enough, the court must provide parties to the extension of the time limit with information on the date on which the judgment will be given in the case, but it is not necessary to mention the time limit itself, more specifically the reason for the overrun. My group understands that deadlines cannot always be met, but the reason for the exceedance must also be clear, as far as my group is concerned, to the parties involved in the proceedings, because a court procedure is difficult for many and the verdict is usually awaited. That's how my experience learns. In the view of the court, the parties may, in principle, conclude the proceedings. As far as my group is concerned, the fact that the time limit is exceeded is justified by the court, not only for the reason I have just mentioned, but also because time limits for parties and lawyers are fatal. Those parties shall propose that the time limits be exceeded. In this context, it is only fair, as far as my group is concerned, that the judicial authority should make it clear that a time limit has been exceeded. It is not for nothing that there is a comment on the article in the General Administrative Law Act that I have just mentioned that the extension should, as a rule, be an exception. I would therefore like to announce that I will be tabling an amendment on this point on behalf of my group. In case the Minister will reply that the amendment is superfluous because the deadlines are normally met, I ask the following question. If, as a rule, deadlines are met, in what kind of cases is this the case? More specifically, is this the simple so-called "standard cases"? If so, does this mean that the complex issues remain in principle? Let us not forget that justice is financed through the so-called PxQ model, or funding to output. In this context, it is logical that the more complex issues remain on the shelf. This doesn't sound very diplomatic, but these things will be pushed back a bit. At least that is the view of my group. I would like a response from the Minister on that point. Maybe he can also indicate how long complex cases remain, if they are. In conclusion, despite the amendment and the critical comments, my group can support the legislative proposal in principle. I told you already: in 2015 there should be a phased end to the shifting of undiplomatically said "with huge paper files." Of course, the quality must be sufficiently guaranteed. The enormous excess of estimated costs must not be borne by the citizen. Not directly through higher costs of justice and not indirectly through cuts in security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you for your contribution. I now give the floor to Mr Oskam of the Christian Democratic Apple. He has given 15 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mr. Chairman. Before going into substantive questions about the legislative proposal itself, I would like to talk about the finances of the case law, in particular the digitisation project KEI. What is striking is that the legislative machinery of the Ministry is not in line with the digitisation wish of the case law. In short, four legislative proposals are needed to fully implement the KEI project. Two legislative proposals have now been brought before the House of Representatives. It concerns bill 34059, which we are discussing tonight, and bill 34138, which is in the pipeline. There will also be two more implementing laws. One is still with the Council of State and the other would be with the Ministry after the Council of State has given its opinion, but I do not think it has yet reached the Lower House. The former Minister of Security and Justice has committed six months of preparation to the chain partners. If the four legislative proposals are adopted, they will be implemented as of 1 January 2016. If you then recalculate, this means that by 1 July 2015, so in six weeks, all legislative proposals must have been adopted by both Chambers. Of course, I don't have a glass ball, but it's probably not gonna work. Bill 34138 is still before the Ministry. The two implementing laws have not yet reached Parliament. In addition, the First Chamber has only a few substantive days before the summer, because June is mainly devoted to the selection of a new chairman and a Vice-President and the classification of committees. That's kind of annoying, because the delay costs money. As Mr Van Nispen of the SP said, justice costs 1.2 million a month if the four legislative proposals on digitisation were not adopted by the two Chambers before 1 July. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. How will the Minister finance the delay if it occurs or compensates for the case-law? We will continue to do so, but the finances are very important. After all, does the case law itself bear the costs of the legislative delay for which the Ministry is ultimately responsible? The CDA Group does not seem right to do that. It is now clear that there has been a significant gap in the budget for justice, partly due to expenditure on the KEI project, but also due to the efficiency task of Rutte II. Can the Minister confirm that the next shortages are coming? For this year, 2015, case law would come down 15.5 million. The following year, 2016, it would be 43 million. In 2017, there would be a deficit of 34 million and a deficit of 10 million in 2018. If that's true, they're worrying figures. For the next three and a half years, justice seems to be undermining it. What impact does this have on this year's budget and on next year's budget? The former Minister of Justice said he would always jump in and not let justice drown. What is the amount to be added? Finally, on the financial front, before I move on to the bill. At the end of April, when we were discussing this, the Minister dissuaded a motion from the CDA group that included a financial weighting for the Chamber for the moment that release 1.0 finally develops to release 2.0. The Minister told you to look at it in its entirety. The question is whether it is. The CDA Group understands that although it is desirable that the entire KEI project be rolled out, release 1.0 is a kind of medium variant of that digitisation. The Minister opts for a full rollout. I understand. However, at what price for the case-law can this be done at the maximum? I'd like to get a reaction to this. I'm moving on to the content of the bill. The CDA Group supports the elements of the proposal, but still has a few questions. Why has no evaluation been proposed so that it can be considered whether the objectives can be met? In particular, the CDA Group attaches importance to strengthening the directing role of the judge. In addition to digitalisation, this is an important part of the legislative proposal, which can make procedures more efficient. Is it not important to measure whether the bill has actually strengthened that directional role? For example, there are more goals worth checking out. This idea has given rise to the submission of an amendment by the CDA. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The Minister indicated in the note following the report on page 22 that an emergency channel is still under investigation. Does the Minister share the urgency of having such an emergency channel ready in time? What's the status of that emergency channel? The proposed digitisation undoubtedly has many advantages. We are very much in favour of it, but there is also a clear shadow side to it. Mr Van Nispen has already mentioned this and I would like to draw your attention to it. The legislative proposal reduces the administrative functions at the Registrys of the courts by 43%. In practical terms, 900 employees are losing their jobs. Can the Minister confirm this? This is proposed at a time when we look at the possibilities of work to work, but we also see that parquet secretaries without a master's degree are at risk of losing their jobs. Today it became known that 5,000 officials at the Tax Office are going to lose their jobs. So it's gonna be fur, I'll say. The members of the CDA Group ask the Minister to explain how the process is going from work to work, especially since the chain partners are doing the same. When's the firing round gonna start? How are employees accompanied to other work or if possible retained for justice? After all, there is a great deal of experience within the judiciary. I come to speak about the relationship with the court of registry. The Minister claims to be thinking of a scheme which means that one third of the fee due remains due when the plaintiff decides to withdraw the case at the time when the defendant appeared in the proceedings or could have appeared in the proceedings at the latest. What's the status? Is it going to be a third part? How did the Minister get to this relationship? I come to my last amendment. The government has changed the deadline for the appearance of the defendant after informal summons compared to the draft legislative proposal from up to six weeks to up to six months. The underlying ratio is that the negotiating space for plaintiffs in canton cases takes more time than those six weeks. The question is, of course, whether this time limit is going to be too long. Does not a shorter notice period, for example, of three months, give a more positive incentive to get out faster than a six-month stretch by the strongest party before agreement is reached or it becomes clear whether the case will be contested, whether a judgment in default should be given or whether the case is withdrawn? How does the Minister see this aspect and how does he assess the amendment? Mr. Chairman. That's it. I've got a lot of time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u7	Indeed, it was a generous estimate. Mr Van Oosten of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy now has the floor with a speaking time of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a legislative proposal to simplify and modernise procedural law, KEI; colleagues have said it many times. Someone who looks at this from a little further afield may wonder what is so new about digitalization in itself. In my view, even with the experience I have gained, justice is really going in a unique direction and is entering the 21st century. The time to communicate mainly by mail or fax is really far behind us. The VVD Group has therefore been positive about the intended digitisation from the outset, but that does not mean that I would like to go through a few aspects of the law, in particular the process associated with it. I am talking about security, the processing of personal data, the relationship with the report of the Elias Committee on ICT projects, the finance and the connection of the chain partners. I also have a more technical question, which I should perhaps have included in the written round, but which had slipped my mind at the time. Security and privacy. Disruption of communication is of course the last thing we need, especially when you start communicating primarily and completely digitally. To what extent does security really form the basis of the architecture of the whole system as it stands today and is also under development? How is it prevented that different worlds of IT, lawyering and so on can communicate with each other? Processing of personal data. I read in the documents that various measures have been taken. Only those who really have a relationship with the case get access to the documents. Even now, of course, justice already works with digital systems. Have lessons been learned in the field of the protection and processing of personal data on the basis of those already existing systems related to them? I am thinking of applications for authority and the insolvency register. The Elias Commission has made firm recommendations in the sphere of ICT of the government. Two chapters I consider particularly relevant for the KEI project. I am thinking of the accountability and decision-making structure of ICT projects and the understanding of the costs of ICT. I would like to hear from the Minister in general how the committee's recommendations, in particular the recommendations in Chapters 4 and 5, have been included in the rolling out of this project. How has project management been designed? For the initiates: that is recommendation 4a. How, for example, is the specific recommendation designed that a clear overview of the costs and figures is offered annually to the House of Representatives? That's recommendation 5c. This brings me to the connection of the chain partners, i.e. the legal profession, the bailiffs and debt collection practices. I recently read an article by the Bar Association expressing concerns about the project's ambitions. For example, one would only be involved in one user test; I believe that a colleague has just referred to this. Will the Minister respond to that? To what extent has the lawyer been sued? Where are any bumps? And what if things do go wrong? For example, a lawyer submits a production, but later it turns out he didn't put it in the right digital place, et cetera. Can he still easily remove it? Is there any way he can report back to me and get that fixed? I also have a question about the bailiffs. In the run-up to this debate, I understand from bailiffs that, at least initially, they were concerned about whether they could fully join the digitisation project. They were also concerned about the impact that the project could have on the management of bailiffs. My question is quite simple: are the folds smoothed out that might have been there? Or are there still folds and, if so, which ones? Are the bailiffs hooked up? I also like to hear about this with other involved partners. I am thinking here of the collection practice. Does that profession participate in this project? I find it remarkable that our two highest legal bodies, the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court of the Council of State, have decided to develop their own web portal. Perhaps this is due to the law of inhibiting head start; I do not know exactly what it is because of. Thus, these two bodies have no connection with the digitisation project of the rest of the case law. I'm a little surprised about that and I think it's kind of crazy, too. Soon we will have two systems. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, I come to my already announced somewhat more legislative question. There are also implications for the General Administrative Law Act. Digitisation has implications for the signature of documents. I note that petitions should be signed by the petitioner, but that requirement is not made in the case of a defence. Perhaps the Minister will see an opportunity to explain this to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u9	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a very important subject today, but it is also a very technical one. I suspect the average viewer thinks: what is this about? Well, this is about a fair outcome of proceedings before the courts; the civil judge and the administrative judge. This debate is the conclusion of a long road. Much advice has been given and many positive advice has been given. I must honestly say that I have even thought that this subject could be dismissed as a hammer piece. That means that if it had been up to my group, we would not have had to hold this last round. After all, there is a full legislative proposal before us. It may have become a bit boring here and there. You could say, "Had a little more ambition put into it." On the other hand, the profession can live with it very well, precisely because it is a bit boring. Yet I also received an angry letter. Someone wrote to me: I know your group better and this could have been treated much more critically. I hope I can make that up to you a little bit now. There are two official targets and, as far as I am concerned, one unofficial purpose of this bill. I want to treat all three of them. The first objective is digitisation. In this context, there is also talk of modernisation. It is clearly inescapable that the case law also digitizes. We're all driving a car now and the stagecoach is really gone. The car and the stagecoach have existed side by side for a while. Of course, this is how we need to look at digitalisation. That doesn't mean it doesn't have any major consequences. Others were talking about it too. This does not directly affect this bill, but the legal position of and at all the employment of people with low levels of education is at stake. As a result of the digitisation of justice, many MBO-skilled administrative staff are disappearing in particular. We heard exactly the same news today about the IRS. I think it's even about 5,000 employees. This is happening massively throughout society. For people with higher education there is work, because automation can't take over the analysis sometimes. Administrative work is going to disappear massively and then "from work to work" becomes an extremely difficult task. We will not solve that tonight, but the Chamber will have to report it, not just here but in all these debates. As far as I am concerned, the challenge is: how are we going to help all those people who are now in MBO training in the future? That was a sidestep, but as far as I am concerned a very important sidestep. As far as digitalization is concerned, I had to think of my own experience. A long time ago, as a judge, I had to assess a means of proof. Then someone said this and that in the Wikipedia. In the verdict, I wrote that a source in which anyone can mess around can never serve as evidence. In the meantime, I would think a lot more nuanced about that. That's the process we're in. Of course, safety is extremely important. I've read about the protection that's put on all sides. Nevertheless, this remains a sensitive point. You can manipulate in written documents, but you can also manipulate in digital documents. My question to the Minister, or to one of the Commissioners, is whether there is a procedure for situations such as the following: hey, the data has been manipulated; the file is not correct; my documents are incorrect; there is a statement here that does not correspond to the ruling that has ever been made. We used to do that with stamps, signatures and the like, but how can we check the authenticity of the whole procedure and, above all, how can you stand up to it? The second objective is to speed up or simplify the procedure. As far as I am concerned, this objective has come a little less into the picture. I would ask one of those present in Box K to draw up again what exactly that profit is in. I don't quite see her. Here and there you see some time savings, sometimes you see some time loss, and sometimes it just isn't clear. What about a counterclaim? What about an incident? What about a joint request for postponement? Sometimes you wonder if you don't have enough time. If you're in opposition, I believe you have a week; that's not long. Anyway, as a defendant, you don't have that much time, considering that a plaintiff can take two years or more before filing his claim. It is precisely at the points where I can remember that delay that will not save us any time. Maybe that's been considered; I may have overlooked it. It could be lawyers who make a deal: I'll agree to postpone if you do it in another case with me. Then the entire delay circus is set in motion with lawyers who I generalize always submit their documents at the very last minute, with all the thunder of it when it's just over time. It could also be judges who leave files in the closet. To my shame, I have to say that I've done that before. What happens to prevent that? Has this been taken into account in this law or in other regulations? These latter examples lead to delays in many procedures. The trickbox still exists, if I've read it correctly. I mean, the trickbox that lawyers can open when they think, "Hey, I can win a few things here procedurally." I think that this applies above all to civil law and a little less to administrative law. It's no good to civilians. They have no advantage at all if they sue a company or someone who is assisted by a lawyer who knows that trickbox very well. That's a risk. I come to my third point. It is not intended to be a profit, but in practice it does yield a profit, namely a more targeted judge. This is mainly about the civil court, because the administrative judge has made that battle before. If I see it correctly, the morale of the civil court is now reduced. The directional role is strengthened. You can already see a number of movements in the direction of General Administrative Law. I'll get back to you on that. Here too you see a movement, at least I hope I see that correctly. In fact, I think I can see that sometimes the civil court can be very careful about compensation for equality. A citizen who acts against a large "repeat-player" can sometimes help as a judge procedurally. Am I right that the civil judge is going more that way? In any case, I am very satisfied with the fact that the judge takes control much more firmly at the beginning of the trial and asks: what should be done here? This development had already started with the compatibility after reply which has become more and more the norm. I'm getting back to my own experience. Lawyers, of course, have an interest in making procedures as difficult as possible and in putting up a lot of dust in order to improve their client's position. As a judge, you have the task of poking through it and looking at what it is really about. Sometimes it even helps to get those lawyers out of the room and ask the parties: what is your problem? Sometimes it is not always so much as it is evident from the pieces. So it seems to me to be a very good development that the judge takes the direction a little more firmly. That's different from mediation. I saw that extra space is being made for reference to mediation. Of course, that comes together with the legislative proposals of former MP Van der Steur. That is also a very good development, but my question to the Commissioner is: can I see that it is mainly a codification of the method with compatibility after reply in civil law and that we are calling on judges who are not yet working in this way to focus much more on the key question, like colleagues who do, on what is actually going on here and how can we solve it? As I said, I think it is a good development that much of the General Administrative Law Act is now being incorporated into civil law. 6:29, 6:11, and 8:66, I saw, coming by, in the speed. I also saw in the documents that one of the advices of the Good Friday Group was: go to a procedural law that is identical for administrative and civil law and that is the same. That didn't happen. I'm sorry to hear that. I would like to ask that this is mainly a political question now, but perhaps the Commissioners can also say something about whether we are going to see it in a not too distant future. Is that an ambition of this cabinet? I hope so. I am almost out of speaking time, but this is a legislative consultation, so I can actually speak for a very long time. I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u10	You don't hear me correcting you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u11	No, but there was non-verbal communication, because you were already looking at me. I see here before me on the screen of everything turning red and blinking. Anyway, finally, I come to bailiffs. There are bailiffs who say to me: we see not only a classic bailiff role for ourselves; we see all these advances too, and many of them can be solved in a different way. They indicate that these debts are sometimes so large that they feel that a debt relief process should be put in place or a different way of providing aid. They ask: don't you throw the child away with the bath water the moment you limit the role of the bailiff? I'll just put the question out here. I understand, I say secretly, the choice made to limit the bailiff's role. However, I find their argument valid, especially from the point of view of the Labour Party, which says: yes, it would be nice if you could get some of those people who are mainly convicted in absentia because that is obviously the bulk of matters in civil law out of there and if you could solve the problem in a different way. A legal procedure seems nice and sometimes beautiful. In nine out of ten cases, however, the problem is not actually solved and such a procedure is just a step towards the solution. We must, of course, ensure that we get the whole solution in sight. I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u12	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me thank the members of the Chamber for the words they have spoken about this important legislative proposal. The Quality and Innovation Justice Programme (KEI), which is before us this evening, is an important step in the modernisation of Dutch justice. A number of spokesmen have already said that this modernisation was urgently needed. Mr Van Oosten said that the judiciary entered the 21st century. That is certainly on time, because the 21st century started some time ago. As has already been said by one of the spokesmen, we will be able to say goodbye to the fax. Many people watching this debate will wonder what a fax is. This is a device that paid off in the eighties and nineties and which was soon abolished, except for one place in the world: in the communication between Dutch law and Dutch law. That's the only place the device is left. If people who are following this debate would like to see such a device because they are wondering what it looks like, the Council of Justice will certainly be prepared to organise some sort of nostalgic tour, an open day, where you can see what a fax looks like. This shows that the desire to modernise is not only based on the case law itself, but also, of course, from society and, of course, from the legal profession and all the parties, such as the bailiffs, mentioned today, who are involved in the case law. Those seeking justice and professional representatives are incredibly satisfied with the Dutch case law, as has already been mentioned in the general consultation we have had on this subject and other matters relating to the case law. 70% of Dutch society has confidence in Dutch justice, but at the same time more digitalisation possibilities are seen and shorter lead times are demanded. These are important principles that are addressed in this debate. I am therefore very pleased that I have received broad support from the spokesmen for the starting point of the legislative proposal and the implementation that has been achieved in recent years thanks to my predecessor in office. I shall make my speech as follows. I would like to give a brief general introduction in which I would like to look at the substance of the legislative proposal. Then both government commissioners will answer the technical questions that have been asked, including those to me. Those questions will also be answered technically. They will also take care of the technical response to the amendments tabled, including the last amendment tabled by Mrs Helder during this evening. I will then give the political judgment on this. Then I will come to the answers to the questions that have been put to me. I would just like to point out that I will provide the answer if there is a political interruption among the government commissioners. If a technical question is asked in the event of interruption, the government commissioners will answer it themselves. That can become a circus on this side of the Chamber, given that my experience of handling a bill with government commissioners is limited, given its peculiarity. I'm sure we'll work it out together behind the chair. If not, we ask for your leadership and vision, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u13	I'll be happy to offer it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u14	I'm counting on it, Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Helder has outlined very well, as I am used to her, what the legislative proposal is about: digitisation of civil law procedures and administrative law. Processes can therefore be submitted digitally and parties have a digital file. That dossier is therefore always available for inspection and can always be consulted whenever it is needed. At the same time, civil procedural law is greatly simplified. This simplification and digitisation brings justice to the fore. Digital litigation is cheaper for those seeking justice, but also easier because it saves a lot of paperwork. Parties can see in the digital file for themselves what their counterpart has argued and what the precise state of play is. They are no longer dependent on third parties, such as a lawyer. They will therefore no longer be faced with the costs involved. At the same time, the court hearing shall be placed at the centre of the proceedings. Digitisation therefore leads to not less, but rather more contact with the judge where necessary. Digitisation in the legislative proposal before us therefore means that contact with the courts and access to justice become easier and more accessible and can take place in a much simpler and more direct way. I share that with Mr Van Nispen, who has brought that to the fore. On the one hand, we have the preparation of legislation and, on the other hand, the preparation of its implementation. The preparation of legislation is on track. We are discussing the legislative proposal on the procedure at first instance today. The appeal and appeal bill is also before the Chamber. The introduction law can be submitted shortly. So, unlike Mr Oskam's assumption, there is no delay. However, it is very important, for both the case-law and the government, for the legislative proposals to be adopted by the First and Second Chambers as soon as possible. The lower regulation required for the implementation of this bill is almost ready or ready. Thus, once the legislative proposal has been adopted, the law can also be introduced. Clarity about the regulation is necessary because the digital system, as developed by the Council for the case law, must be in line with that. It is important that it is clear whether the legislation still needs to be amended so that the case-law can properly implement it. It goes without saying that the digital system must be sound and reliable before the digital procedure starts. This point has been raised by a number of spokesmen. They asked, "What if it doesn't work?" Do people fall between shore and ship? Does the whole thing get messed up? The answer to that is no. If the system is not reliable, it will not be introduced. However, this will have consequences. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Oskam pointed that out. It will mean that more costs will have to be incurred over a longer period than is intended, because two systems will have to continue to exist side by side. However, that is the least of the problems. What cannot happen in our society is that justice is not accessible and that justice cannot prevail where it is necessary. That commitment has already been made by my predecessor, and I repeat it here: the introduction will only take place when the system is actually ready. Several members made comments on the Elias Committee. One thing is certain: the Council of Justice has opted for a sensible system of implementation in my view. The Members present know this better than I do, because I have not been to work lately with the implementation organisation that deals with implementation. With the chosen system, the whole system is not set up at once, built up and then put into operation, but is built up step by step, with the intermediate tests needed. Is it done? No, it's not done yet. That is not possible either, because the final state of the legislation must first be clear. Is it very far? Yeah, it's a long way from development.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u15	Then perhaps this is the time for an interruption by Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u16	The Minister says that the legislation is very advanced, but it is almost 1 July. The Minister, or at least his predecessor, has promised to the courts, the lawyers and the bailiffs that there will be six months of preparation. If that is not achieved, it costs 1.2 million a month. I think that's a waste of money, and so do other colleagues. Of course it's okay to do it carefully, but are we going to make it to July 1st? And are we gonna make it to January 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u17	Of course, the answer to that question lies largely with the First and Second Chambers. One thing's for sure: the six-month deal is tough. It is hard because the legal profession, the bailiffs and all parties who have to work with the new situation need this period to be able to work adequately with the system. This applies not only to those third parties, but also to those who work within the jurisdiction itself. That is only sensible, and I think it is necessary. I make the commitment that my predecessor has made. From the Dutch Bar Association, I know he really needs those six months. Even with the lawyer there are some concerns about whether within those six months one is able to make the connection. I am convinced that they can, and indeed they should. However, Mr Oskam is right: if the deadline of 1 July is not met, the implementation will automatically shift. I can't take that away for the simple reason that I don't want to take any risks. I said it to Mr Van Nispen, among other things: it cannot be that we are implementing a system that we are not sure is fully connected to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u18	I think the Chamber is very constructive about this bill and is going to conclude it quickly. Maybe we can go to the First Chamber before the summer. However, I do not want money to be wasted. We look for money here every day. If we're going to waste 1.2 million a month, that's a real pain in the ass, of course. I wouldn't mind reaching out to help. Perhaps it is an idea that, if this bill, the first of the four, is passed in the Lower House and the Upper House, the Minister gives his consent to the Council for Justice by saying: the beginning is there, go roll it out, and those other legislative proposals will come. Then we can start on January 1st and we don't have to waste that money. Maybe that's a nice solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u19	Firstly, I very much appreciate that Mr Oskam shares with me his concern about the financing of justice in a general sense, but also about the consequences of perhaps not introducing the new system in time. At the same time, however, I do not think it would be of benefit to anyone if we put in place a system that is not ready. Moreover, the introduction can only take place if the introduction law has also been approved by the Lower House and the Upper House. Before then, I can't enter it anyway, even if I give my consent as much as I want. I am glad that Mr Oskam has given me that power. Perhaps in the future we can talk to him again about how to introduce laws outside the Chamber. I am very much in favour of this, as I say to Mr Oskam, but I think there is still something in the way. Willem Elsschot already wrote it: "Dream and deed stand in the way of laws and practical objections." Here it is, I think, the law that stands in the way. As a result, it cannot be the case that a minister introduces a law that has not yet been accepted by the Chambers. So I have no choice. I agree with Mr Oskam when he says that the consequence is that additional costs will be incurred. The answer to that is yes. I will then look at how we deal with this with the case-law Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u20	I think Mr Oskam has the need to retouch somewhat the image he has just outlined. He will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u21	Of course, I didn't say that and I didn't mean that. Here's what's important. Parties need a number of months to get used to the new system. They need to prepare for that. I believe that this preparation is separate from the legislation. The Minister can very well say to the Council for Justice: start preparing, prepare everyone for it. The condition is, of course, that this law be passed. There's no other way. However, as soon as the first legislative proposal has been passed, it is quite possible to prepare it. This also applies to the two, three and four legislative proposals, provided, of course, that of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u22	On that point, I can reassure Mr Oskam. The Court of Justice does not, of course, sit around waiting for the Court to finally adopt that last law. It certainly isn't. The intention is that this is how it is handled, also by the lawyer, that, if it is clear what the laws look like, everyone is already working on them. For example, following the adoption of this bill, perhaps even this week or next Tuesday, these processes are being worked on. That goes without saying. That does not mean, however, that I am abandoning that six-month period, because that is a tough agreement made by my predecessor in the interests of Dutch justice and, as I say to Mr Van Nispen, of, among other things, the judge seeking it. We must be able to count on a truly reliable system. That was also one of the opinions of the Elias Committee to which Mr Van Oosten referred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u23	I'm gonna try one more time anyway. I would like the Minister to clarify this point. If on 20 December 2015, if that is already a meeting day of the First Chamber, the fourth bill is passed by the First Chamber, does it have six months to implement it, or can it be implemented earlier, counting on its adoption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u24	Then these six months will still be needed, because implementation must and can only take place when the actual legislation has been adopted. The idea is that the legislative proposals will be adopted and that the deadlines for implementation will start when those laws are published in the Official Journal. Then the implementation can take place. But let's point out that in the end it's about the implementation being flawless. The Elias Committee has rightly warned us about this. You should not be too optimistic and think that a new system functions flawlessly from day one. That is unwise; I fully agree with the Chamber and the Elias Committee. The Council of Justice is also aware of this. That is why no risk should be taken in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u25	I would like to continue on this point because I am concerned about the costs. I understand that the Minister will deal with the costs in detail, but this is linked specifically to this. Mr Oskam also said that every month delay costs money. It could be 1.2 million, but if you include programme costs, technical costs and deferred income, it could also be EUR 7 million per month, I understand. Can the Minister confirm that? I would also like to know, regardless of the exact amount, who will bear the costs of postponement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u26	I have also answered that question in general consultation. It was not put there by Mr Van Nispen, but in a general sense. Mr Van Nispen says that delay costs 7 million a month. Fortunately, that is not the case. If there is a delay, it is expected to cost 1.2 million per month for IT, as double costs will be borne. As the Chamber knows, there is no delay at the moment, but I cannot rule out any delay. If there is a delay, it will in principle be included in the Council's budget for justice itself, because that is the end of the process. The costs lie with the Council for the case-law, but that is also where the benefits lie in the future. They have not yet been registered, I say in response to Mr Van Nispen. I have already promised, and my predecessor has done so, that if problems arise there, we will, of course, be discussing the financing of these costs from the responsibility that we, as the Ministry of Security and Justice, bear for justice. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u27	I think it should be more than 1.2 million, because the deferred income has not been taken into account. But apart from that, we can all count. In my opinion, it is hardly conceivable that all four laws will be passed by the Lower House and the Upper House before the summer recess. It will not be up to me, but we must take this seriously. I am really concerned when the Minister says that this will then be charged with the case law and he will discuss it. We will talk about this later, but I hope the Minister understands my concern. I do not think that is a desirable situation. We cannot say: the case-law is trying to figure it out on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u28	Mr Van Nispen did not hear me say that, and I will not say that, because I do not think that is the way in which you, as a minister, deal with the Council of Justice. The costs and benefits of KEI fall within the Council's budget for justice, as the Council also knows. This means that both the advantages and the disadvantages lie there. I think it is conceivable that the entire legislative process will not be completed in the Second and First Chambers before 1 July. I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen. This will mean that the implementation date will shift from 1 January to a date later in 2016. We must be realistic about the consequences of this. If it is six months, then we are talking about an amount of EUR 6 to 8 million. Of course, a budget of 900 million in the case-law of the European Court of Justice is a matter for strict scrutiny. I am not very good at percentages, and I am not going to venture to do that either, but it is not, of course, the case that we should pretend to have a complete standstill in the funding of justice. It's not like that. However, I do not want to hide the fact that justice is not so wide-ranging. I have also explained this extensively in general consultation. If the Commissioners of Government have spoken, I will explain this briefly. It is therefore appropriate that there should be a discussion between me and the Council on the case law if there are insurmountable objections by that time. That brings me to the end of my general introduction. I note that I find it extremely pleasurable that I am standing here. Despite the fact that I have not been allowed to stand here for very long, I have never stood here with two eminent legal scholars at my side, to which I, as a minister, can pass on all the questions I cannot answer myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u29	Let me get this straight: just all the technical questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u30	Of course, that's the blacksmith's secret. In the case of questions that I can't answer, I pretend they're technical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u31	Yes, but I'm afraid that's not up to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u32	I thought or feared you might not fall for that. I am therefore happy to give the floor first to Mr Hammerstein and then to Mr Scheltema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u33	I would like to give the floor to Mr Hammerstein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u34	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Minister, I would like to answer some technical questions. There aren't many of them. The first question is from Mr Van Nispen. He referred to the merging of claims or claims and requests in a single procedure. The new version of this bill is that a claim and a request can be put together if it is efficient. Saves registry fees. If the judge finds that this does not work or does not work well, he can split the cases again and refer them to two separate routes. So at that point, there's always a solution. For several claims in a procedure we have the current regime. Nothing's gonna change that. Two technical points come from Mrs Helder's speech. The first concerns whether service will not be required very often. The answer to that is yes. It is expected that only 10% of cases will be able to provide an informal process introduction and in all other cases, for large bulk collection cases, one will choose to mean it. The second point concerns the amendment that has been tabled. Should the judge justify failure to comply with the time limit for a judgment or an application? The time limit is six weeks in a verdict and four weeks in the canton court. Firstly, this is in itself very sympathetic to the parties, but it does not help the parties because the verdict or decision is not there. Secondly, it will also have to be done in a number of cases, so that a lot of work is devoted to a problem that actually exists in the absence of the judgment or decision. Mrs Helder has already said it herself: parties need much more to know when it will come. Finally, it is very difficult to state why a judgment is not timely for each individual case. In general terms, a court and judge can say that as many percent of cases are time-limits and not for so many percent of cases, and what are the reasons, such as delays that have not yet been resolved, illness, too few people, or the fact that cases are becoming more complicated. However, the problem should be approached at a somewhat higher level. It is very difficult, in all cases, to give people a reason to which, in their case, the delay is due. Moreover, a judge will often not know that at all: I have been ill for two weeks, but I also have a closet full of them. That is the answer to Mrs Helder's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u35	In the light of the amendment to item No. 10 wants to interrupt Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u36	In itself I can understand this explanation, but experience has shown that it has always been extremely frustrating. It was from those role messages and then you got a whole set of cases that you were dealing with as a lawyer and then it just said: new date, period. If that had happened three times, you'd call at some point, because clients would ask what it was. It just seems very unsatisfying. It is not the intention to motivate any kind of delay extensively, but it is also meant as a stick behind the door, so that at some point judges will try to deal with a case within the time limit and otherwise only postpone it once. The point is that judges are aware that some action is expected from them. That is what the amendment is intended to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u37	Mr Hammerstein gave a further explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u38	On that point, I can reassure Mrs Helder. Firstly, there is the notion among judges that postponement of judgments for parties and judges is very bad, to a large extent. This bill has an additional effect on the civil court that the judge now knows that there is a deadline in the law and that the mere fact that it is in the law will be an additional incentive for the court to meet that deadline. The judge also knows that there must be special circumstances to not do it. That makes it unnecessary to give a reason again and again. The next point is Mr Oskam's amendment, which will allow a process initiation to be introduced in the long term. Mr Oskam asked whether the six-month deadline could not be shortened. These six months are the result of consultation with the professions, which shows that there is a need for this in practice. This is not only for settlement negotiations, but in some cases there is a need to wait for a different ruling or a ruling from abroad, or there is something going on internationally that takes a very long time. That six-month period is already a huge reduction compared to current practice, because that is a huge restriction. Those six months were considered reasonable. If that time limit is reduced, it will be difficult in a number of cases. So the practice is that it needs a time limit which, as far as we are concerned, should be six months. If a defendant considers that the time limit is too long, that defendant can always bring about a reduction. So, in that sense, there is not much need to limit this in the field of legal protection either. Moreover, it will only happen in a limited number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u39	That was an explanation of the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u40	Then I have seen a technical question from Mr Van Oosten about whether a defence should not be signed in civil proceedings, if I understand correctly. The new law also states that a statement of defence in the case of a written document must also be signed. Nothing changes in that respect. If it's digital, of course there's no signature. As far as the General Administrative Law Act is concerned, nothing changes on this point. Finally, several members touched on the point of the acceleration and direction of the judge. It is true in itself that the time limits added up in the law do not represent a great acceleration compared to current practice, but that means that there are legal deadlines that will make it more stringent to follow them. Secondly, as Mr Recourt pointed out, the strengthening of the directing function of the judge responsible for the duration and progress of the proceedings is indeed a confirmation of a current practice in the law. We don't really know the impropriety of the judge in civil matters anymore in the old-fashioned sense. The judge shall be responsible for good progress and for the efficient organisation of the procedure. The acceleration will mainly be found in ensuring that this procedure is efficient. Witnesses may be heard in oral proceedings and actions may be merged, thus increasing the concentration and speed of the proceedings. That's actually what's meant by the judge's directing function. I believe that I have answered all the questions. The latter was whether or not we are moving towards a harmonisation of civil law and administrative law. That is indeed the case. They run more towards each other from both sides, but I do not think that harmonisation is yet possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u41	Thank you for your answers. I have a pressing question about hearing witnesses, because you can announce in advance that you need witnesses. The judge doesn't need to have issued an evidence order for that. Can you tell me in what cases the legislator intended to hear witnesses without a contract of evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u42	These are, in fact, procedures which are relatively simple in terms of the actual basis. Evidence must be provided as to the validity of an achievement, to name but a few, or whether someone has been warned on time. There are two or three witnesses who are heard in one hearing, so that the evidence of the witnesses is on the table at once. When it comes to a difficult procedure, with risks of proof and disagreement over the burden of proof, the judge will say: this procedure is not suitable for this and we must take other decisions. It is actually about simple procedures, with relatively clear facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u43	In what way will it be ensured that the other party also knows that this can happen at the first court hearing with a judge? Maybe the other side thinks, "Maybe I have to deliver my counter-proof."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u44	The party that will bring witnesses will always have to inform the judge in good time that this is going to happen. Then the other party will be able to say: we make use of the same possibility, if we also have one or two witnesses. If it gets too many, it can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u45	Thank you for your explanation of the technical questions. I would like to give Mr Scheltema the opportunity to explain or answer the remaining technical questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u46	Mr. Chairman. As has already been pointed out here in the Chamber, it has been explicitly intended that digitisation in civil procedural law and administrative procedural law should be shaped as much as possible in the same way as possible and, in general, that procedures should be brought closer to each other where possible. This means that my colleague Mr Hammerstein's answer to the technical questions also applies to administrative law, so I really have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u47	That was a brief, powerful and clear explanation, thank you very much. I call again the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u48	Mr. Chairman. I feel the need to express a text similar to that which Mr Scheltema has just done. I have nothing to add...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u49	That's possible, but you can add something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u50	... but I have a pile of questions here that I still have to answer, so I will. In the non-verbal communication I have just received from the Chamber, I would also like to say that it would not be appreciated if I did not add anything to it. I'm gonna go check on the financials. I have discussed this extensively with the Court of Justice in general consultation. I shall repeat it briefly and succinctly. To those spokesmen who say 'hey, the Minister has already told us', I apologize for that. However, I think I should answer the questions, even if they may be asked to me for the second time. The cost of modernising the case law, which is wider than the KEI project alone, has already been largely included in the Council's budgets for the case-law and the courts. For the years 2014 to 2016, the price agreement with the Judicial Council included an amount of 26.5 million euros per year for three purposes: the balance between working pressure and quality, friction costs and investment in the KEI process. Based on the figures of the business case, more investments are required in the years 2015 and 2016 than is available in the price. This means that the costs for the KEI project are not evenly distributed over the years. That goes without saying for such a large project. In order to cope with these fluctuations, the Council has reserves for the case-law. At present, the total reserve amounts to over EUR 80 million. We know that these reserves will have to be claimed. That is also what I said in general consultation. This is inevitable, also because of the costs that have recently been identified more purely. When problems arise with KEI's costs, I will, of course, consult the Council on this. I have just said that to Mr Van Nispen. Of course, the budget of the Council for Justice will also be discussed in the 2016 budget. This will undoubtedly be the subject of discussion. Mrs Helder and Mr Van Nispen expressed their explicit concern about the financing of KEI. I will make a brief comment on this. A new price applies for the period after 2016. This is now being discussed with the Council for Justice. If the challenges for the Council for Justice are too great, this will be taken into account in the next price negotiations that have not yet been concluded. This also means that it is not yet possible to say that there will be a problem in 2016 or the following year, given the reserve position but also given the price agreements that still have to be made. Mr Van Nispen is concerned about access to justice for people who are not sufficiently digitised themselves after digitisation has taken place. I do not want to give the impression that people need to be digitized, but I think Mr Van Nispen understands what I mean. It's premeditated that we're getting a two-track policy. People will be able to sue in writing, with all the advantages and disadvantages of that, and people will be able to sue digitally. If there is digital litigation, there will be an authentication of the data subject. It's provided by a text code. Therefore, if someone does not have a mobile phone or does not have sufficient Internet access, they can be omitted by written procedure. That is enough. It is clear that there will be a password and a login code, but I will come back to that when I discuss the issue of system security. Mr Van Nispen also asked how I look at DigiD. Is that enough for access? On this point, too, I say that the citizen who wants to sue digitally may do so. It's a voluntary option. It's a choice people get to make. If one does not want to do so, one can do it differently. I recall that there have been debates with my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations about how DigiD will develop in the future. Of course, that will be different, better, faster and more easily accessible, I estimate. But one thing is certain: if one does not want to use DigiD, one can do it another way. In fact, one can continue to sue in writing. In any case, we do know that DigiD is available within a few days. However, if you don't want to apply for a DigiD, you don't have to apply for access to justice. Mr Van Nispen then asked another question which I find difficult to answer. It may also be part of a Member's job to do so. So I will respond to it as best I can. I am referring to the question of how to prevent the problems that have occurred in the past with DigiNotar. I think it's gonna be hard for me to say that I guarantee that those problems will never be there. That's not realistic either. But it is clear, of course, that a great deal has been learned from the problems of the past. The Court of Justice has built up a system based on what is known by an English term as the scrum/agile method. Members will no doubt have heard this when they made the work visit. During the construction of the process, every few weeks the question is whether the built is also useful. That's new. Like I said, it wasn't often like that. At that time, just one very big thing was introduced and it was tested whether it worked. Fortunately, it has not been done in this case, precisely because it is realized how important it is that this system is actually doing well from the first day it is being used. In addition, an emergency channel is set up. Mr Van Nispen asked what exactly that would look like. In addition, when will the investigation be completed? Justice is still in the process of setting up an emergency channel. They are also not yet clear on the precise implementation of it. So I cannot give an exact answer to that either. There is, among other things, consultation with the legal profession, which must, of course, play a role in this. In any case, the idea is that the emergency channel can be used if there is a technical malfunction while an immediate order measure is necessary. For example, if your property is cleared because you have not paid the rent, in the classic case you would like to make a provisional provision against it. If there was a technical malfunction, then there would be no access to justice. It goes without saying that there must be an emergency channel for such a case. That is also recognised by the case law. That, I think, is also an important demand of the Dutch Order of Lawyers. There will be such an emergency channel, in two ways. Firstly, the deadlines will no longer apply. The excisability of the time limit may then be invoked, giving a party one additional working day to carry out its procedural action. Secondly, it ensures that people still have access to justice through an emergency channel in the event of an immediate emergency. It is not yet clear what exactly this emergency channel will look like. I'll inform the Chamber with the regular progress reports. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van Oosten have asked whether it is not strange that the Supreme Court, the Council of State and the ordinary courts, which fall within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, apply different systems. We have all chosen to set up the system as it is. This means that the Council of Justice is not about the Supreme Court and that the Council of State is not part of the Court of Justice. It has been realized that it would be extremely impractical if three different systems existed for the population side by side. The solution chosen is that the three separate systems will continue to be the same in the eyes of the citizen, the user and the seeker. There will therefore be no differences in the way the system operates. For those who seek their right there is only one system of working, even if it runs on three different servers. Moreover, this is based on a very clear cost-benefit analysis. The High Council and the Council of State have their own system, which works well and in which they have invested a lot of money. It was chosen not to reverse that investment with a new system that would be returned to the Court of Justice through the Council. This also seems to me to be in line with the conclusion of the Elias Committee that you do not necessarily have to replace well-functioning systems with new ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u51	I agree with the latter in itself, but I also asked what the Minister is looking at the fact that there are three systems; I was mistakenly talking about two systems. You can maneuver them away from the outside world so that they are not visible as separate systems, but I find it strange in itself. How does the Minister feel about that? Shouldn't he be aiming for a single system in the long run? It seems to me to be so efficient, so practical and perhaps so good in terms of spending money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u52	If that is the case, then Mr Van Oosten and I immediately think that this would be sensible. If the system developed by the Council for Justice now works better, faster and more efficiently than the systems already in place by the Supreme Council and the Council of State, if it can achieve enormous cost savings and perhaps even an efficiency blow by adopting the same system, then I fully agree with Mr Van Oosten. However, the analysis is now different. I understand that the introduction would undo a huge investment that has already been made, and that it does not matter to the right-doer because he gets the same picture. This has taken away the concern that Mr van Oosten is right to have that three systems exist side by side and that everyone will say: 'God, you have to make totally different choices and make other decisions, it all looks very different.' I fully agree with Mr Van Oosten that it is obvious that the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Council of State will discuss in due course after the introduction of KEI, if successful, when they can integrate the systems. I would certainly consider that sensible, but as a minister I certainly will not oblige the entities to do so. I can only point out once again in my discussions that that would be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u53	Mr Van Oosten has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u54	Actually, it's already been answered. I would have liked to ask whether the Minister would see a role for himself in ensuring, at least in the long term, that these three systems are integrated into a single system. But let me ask that question and wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u55	I can give you that answer. If it is cheaper, if it is more efficient and if it works better, then I think no one, including the High Council and the Council of State, will say: no, we are stubbornly clinging to our own precious, less efficient system. That makes sense. I think I can promise Mr van Oosten that I will be happy to have that conversation once the system has proved itself. This means that by then I will also have to act in this position...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u56	For the time being, you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u57	...but I'll leave that to your room. Mr Van Nispen has asked whether lawyers are sufficiently involved in the construction of the digital system. The case law has set up five sound and working groups to speak with the chain parties, such as lawyers and bailiffs. 13 information meetings were held especially for lawyers at the end of 2014. Two user acceptance tests with lawyers have now taken place. User acceptance tests are now taking place every six weeks. Every six weeks the lawyer is therefore involved in the system. That will continue to be the case, precisely because everyone, including the lawyer himself, has a great interest in making the system work properly and efficiently. Mr Van Nispen also said that the Dutch Bar Association has pointed out to the Chamber whether it is possible to exchange messages with the courts on the first release, i.e. the first issue of the system, by means of a system link. The Dutch Order of Lawyers took action on that point. April 23rd. In fact, a meeting was held with 17 software providers and the case law to talk about this system link. The Order of Lawyers will play a facilitating role in the contacts between the courts and these suppliers. The case-law intends to share the technical specifications for the system couplings with all suppliers and interested chain parties as soon as possible at the end of June or early July. This will mean that from the first release law firms that want to purchase a package from a software supplier can also connect to the system link phase by phase. This ensures that the lawyer can connect to the system if he so wishes. Mr Van Nispen has also asked whether I can guarantee that the system will not really be introduced until it is sufficiently reliable. That goes without saying. I have already said this in the debate with Mr Oskam. That is why the six-month implementation period is so important. It is necessary to guarantee that reliability. Mr Van Nispen also asked what would happen if the digital system came out. I think I have already answered that question. There can then be recourse to the so-called changeability of the time limit. That is stated in Article 30c (8) of the Awb and Article 8.36c of the Awb. A further elaboration of this measure has been included in an AMvB which has since been in consultation, I can say to Mr Van Nispen. On the basis of the scheme in the AMvB, the parties may rely on one additional working day to carry out their proceedings. This is only true after the malfunction has been corrected and it is not insignificant that they were also aware or might have been aware of the fact that that malfunction had been remedied. This ensures that parties do not get into trouble due to an error on the part of the system. I think that is reasonable and necessary. Mr Van Nispen asked for the motion of one of his illustrious predecessors, Mr De Wit. That motion concerned the registry rights. Registry rights are taken into account in the introduction law, i.e. the final part of the four legislative proposals. The De Wit motion will also be examined. I therefore propose that the debate on this issue be discussed in the course of this legislative proposal and that it be dealt with in its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u58	The Minister is talking about the law of the Registry. I heard a third would be charged. The Minister was going to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u59	I will do that when I answer Mr Oskam's questions. I was not ready for that, because I was still working on Mr Van Nispen's questions. I'll be right there. Mr Van Nispen, as well as other members, drew attention to the reorganisation needed after the implementation of the KEI system. What guarantees are there for those who risk losing their jobs? How are these people being escorted from work to work? In my view, these are perfectly logical questions that need to be asked. It goes without saying that the Council bears the responsibility for the case-law. The board operates a work-to-work policy. People are also closely following developments in this area within the government. I know that Mr Van Nispen is well aware of this. In consultation with participation, the Board is working on a restructuring scenario and on mobility. The judicial authorities cooperate with a local network for exchanges, traineeships and secondments. The board's starting point is that as many employees as possible are voluntarily guided to new work. That too, I believe, is understandable and justified. Furthermore, the starting point is that at all costs and by all means it will be avoided that there will be redundancies. But Mr Van Nispen too, like everyone else, will understand that the guarantee cannot be given that there will be no forced redundancies. You can never guarantee that completely. However, the policy is entirely aimed at reducing the risk of redundancies as much as possible. Mr Van Nispen then asked about the use of ethical hackers. I am glad that he asked that question, because it is one of the achievements of the Netherlands in the field of cybercrime that we as a country allow people to actually break into another's system, but that they do so for an ethical purpose. This is important, and this is something that the Council makes active use of in this system for the purposes of justice. That hacker uses his skills and his organisational talents to secure the purpose of a well-functioning system. Spir-it therefore hires ethical hackers and has trained its own employees to do so. They are used in addition to the so-called penetration tests. Those are tests you're trying to make those burglaries happen. In this way, malicious hackers and other people who try to get into systems for fun or malice in all kinds of ways are depicted there is a whole range of other English terms for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This will ensure that an intelligent defence strategy is pursued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u60	Mr Van Nispen has another interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u61	Exactly, it's about the staff. I think the Minister has said some good things about this. Forced redundancies must of course, at all costs, be avoided as much as possible; there is also consultation with participation. But exactly how much budget has been made available within the Quality and Innovation Programme for this human resources policy? The Minister speaks of work-to-work policy, but I would like to know what price is attached to it. I would also like to know from the Minister that perhaps not today but perhaps in the next progress report how many people are likely to lose their jobs gradually per year because of this programme. It really is a matter of huge numbers of jobs in administrative positions, as we understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u62	It is true that there are huge numbers involved. Anyone who has ever visited the court and seen people with literally cartloads of paper moving through the corridors understands that this will be a thing of the past and that this will have consequences for the staff. I very much appreciate Mr Van Nispen's concern about this. Not just him, by the way, because I have heard it from other Members. The answer cannot be given now. We all know that Mr Oskam is already concerned about the introduction of KEI...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This means that the effects will not be visible until 1 January 2016 at the earliest. The budget discussions on what you need to guide those processes will therefore only take place within the framework of the 2016 budget. I therefore propose that we have this discussion. I think it is a good thing that, in the accompanying letter, which I will no doubt send, I will make it clear how justice is going to understand exactly how it is going to be done and how many people are expected to be involved by then. You also have to assume that all those people who already know that they will lose their jobs in the long run will take action themselves and find another job. What you expect now, in six months or three-quarters of a year's time, if it has been introduced, may turn out to be quite different. I also assume that it is wise that people do so and that they do not wait until they really lose their jobs. For people with a purely administrative function, this is perhaps a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u63	This is indeed exactly the problem that courts had to deal with last year. Employees see it coming and sometimes leave in greater numbers, voluntarily, than the court already expected. This leads to problems, but the reverse of course also leads to problems. If people are going to find themselves in a situation where these jobs are disappearing at a faster rate than they had taken into account, we must avoid a staffing battlefield. I would therefore ask the Minister to exercise the utmost care in this respect and, in consultation with the Council, to urge the judicial authorities, who are still at work at the time, not to rush out of it for budgetary reasons or to cut back on the task of the judiciary. I think that would be a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u64	I believe that, knowing the Council of Justice and the Courts, and given the atmosphere and the way in which staff are dealt with there, that goes without saying. Mr Van Nispen is right that care is paramount. People have often done very good work under a very old-fashioned system for many years. Of course, you have to deal with that very carefully. So there's no question of that. Should I have the impression, in my discussions with the Court of Justice, that mistakes are being made, I will, of course, bring that care to the attention of the Council, in accordance with Mr Van Nispen's request. At the same time, I think that we should enable the Council to conduct its own personnel policy before the courts, precisely because we are concerned about its financing and its independent position. I come to Mrs Helder's contribution. She asked: does the Minister now have sufficient regard for the dangers posed by ICT and the government and what is the Minister going to do about these risks? The Court of Justice is aware of these risks and has therefore also opted for this approach with the use of ethical hackers who organise burglaries, which is of course quite special: the case law that organises burglaries itself, the phased introduction and the six-month period. All this is aimed at keeping implementation manageable. Mrs. Helder also asked how the defendants are now doing. This point has also been dealt with by the government commissioners. I think Mrs. Helder and I agree that if you want to make sure a defendant shows up, you should hire a bailiff. You should then simply do this along the classic road, as Mrs Helder, Mr Van Oosten and I have done quite regularly in our previous roles as lawyers without any doubt. When you read the law, you see it's wise. On the other hand, if you are sure that the other party will appear independently, because it is also in her interest to do so or because you just agree to it yourself because you know the other party, you can not do so. As Mr Hammerstein said, we expect that this will only be the case in 10% of the cases. In the vast majority of cases, therefore, a bailiff will still be hired, because in many cases you don't want to be delayed because you didn't. If you don't, you run the risk of slowing down. However, it may also be that the parties say: well, I actually prefer the risk of delay rather than the risk of higher costs, so I take that risk and then I see if I should finally let the bailiff go. That is a choice that parties can make themselves. If I were to dig into my past for a moment, my prudent view would be that you would do wisely to basically just send a bailiff out on the road. Another question from Mrs Helder was: can a party be convicted without being formally summoned by the bailiff? The answer to that is: no, it can't be. A defendant can only be convicted after an informal summoning by the plaintiff if he himself appears and then of course fails to defend himself or for any reason he would not defend himself. A defendant may be convicted in absentia only if he has been summoned by a bailiff. A defendant who logs in to My Cause to review his file is not yet deemed to have appeared. I think that is an important point, also in order to ensure legal certainty. If he has been called informally and he doesn't appear, then a bailiff will still have to be deployed. Mrs Helder also asked why the debate on funding did not directly involve a broad business case, as was the case with the second business case on costs. The answer to this is that the development of plans for all jurisdictions was not ready at the time and the consequences for the courts were not yet clear. The discussions on the adaptation of the plenary rooms and their implementation were simply not yet known. In addition, the plans of punishment and supervision were still too early to be able to estimate the full costs at that time. So the first business case gave an indication. The second business case gave a much more careful picture in that respect. It has already been widely shared with the Chamber that this second business case represents costs that have already been budgeted, but which have now just been put on one heap in the overall project. Mr Oskam asked about the system of withdrawal of registry duties. Here's the deal. The plaintiff shall only be liable for a third part of the Registry duty if he withdraws the case before the defendant has appeared or could have appeared in the proceedings. If at that time the claimant has already paid the full Registry fee, he will receive two thirds of it back. In addition, the amount to be paid to the Registry shall be limited after withdrawal. Legal persons will never lose more than €500 in registry law, natural persons will never lose more than €250 and inability never more than €75. The submission of a process initiation can still be used to break a deadlock in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u65	The Minister is very clear about the third, but I am also curious about the underlying ratio. How did he get to the third one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u66	The third was established after due consideration within the courts. The following is speculation, but that may be the case in the Acts, because if it turns out otherwise, at least I have done my best to answer the question. Wait, I just got a note with the answer. That's telepathy! A large part, which is two thirds, is repaid because in the event of timely withdrawal, i.e. in the current situation, no Registry duty is due. A small proportion remains due because I think that is what I consider to be the case that a contribution to social costs, which are incurred when a case is brought, is justified. I know that Mr Oskam shares this point of departure, as we have also shared this in the debate on our own contribution to the criminal justice sector, among other things. Mr Oskam asked about the call-in period, so if you bring a case in the longer term. As a lawyer, I have done so many times, precisely for the reason explained by Mr Hammerstein: you will then have the opportunity to discuss with the parties a possible solution. Especially when it's a complicated matter, it can sometimes be very useful to have that space while at the same time bailing out the deadlines. That's the bottom line. As it is now laid down, I think it is very sensible. The fact that there is a procedure is also an incentive for the negotiations. That is also my personal experience from the past. It is therefore more important that the parties have the time to negotiate, for example in the form of mediation. I think it would be very sensible for parties to do mediation. When this does not happen, it is known that the trial can easily be continued. Moreover, I would like to point out that I think Mr Oskam knows this better than anyone else that if you, as the other party, think that you should be at issue earlier, you can still have the case brought before you in accordance with the old system. You can move the case forward. If you think it's taking too long or if you don't agree, you can still put the case on the roll, as far as there's still a role to be played. I have done this myself a few times; that always gives a lot of impulses in a case. You can make sure that the case is brought to the attention of the judge sooner. It is not, as I thought, in Mr Oskam's remark, then to the plaintiff that this is the deadline. No, the defendant can just come up with his own actions on that. Mr Oskam has asked about the emergency channel. I have already answered that question in my answer to Mr Van Nispen's question. Mr Van Oosten has taken the opinion of the Elias Committee once again in detail. I think this is wise. He initially asked about the safety of the system and the prevention of problems. It goes without saying that both the security of the system and the safeguarding of privacy are key elements in the development of the system. The system must therefore comply with the Standard Frameworks Security of Justice. Authorisations shall be limited to persons directly involved in the case. Others who are not involved will not have access to the system. The case law carries out tests with ethical hackers. Digitisation is carried out by the court's own ICT company and is not outsourced, not even to parties based in America, for example. A number of judges are and will remain directly involved. The case law only starts with the roll-out of the system if it is sufficiently certain that everything works, that privacy is guaranteed and that it is completely safe. Mr Van Oosten then asked what has been learned from the past. Problems have arisen in particular in the protection and processing of personal data. Lessons have been learned from that, not without falling and getting up. It is important, however, that these lessons have been learned. Of course, justice has been working for a long time with digitised systems, both internally and externally. A lot of knowledge and experience has been gained with this. Sensitive data and the protection and processing of personal data have of course always been very important parts of this. It is for this reason that the system of careful construction is subject to reviews and judges are examining whether it is useful. For each release, or issue with a Dutch word, a review, review and a comprehensive user test is performed. In addition, citizens also use the system. It goes without saying, as I have already said, that the system will not start if it is not reliable. This applies regardless of the consequences, including in the financial sense. Mr Van Oosten has made a comparison with the register of authorities and the insolvency register, if I am not mistaken. The examples mentioned by Mr Van Oosten are so different that they are public registers. The discussions on privacy and security play a different role in this. As Mr van Oosten knows, these registers are only accessible to people with an authorisation. However, experience with such systems has been learned. The nature and classification of personal data is therefore also explicitly considered. The purpose for which these data are processed shall also be taken into account. In general, Mr Van Oosten asked what the case law does with the recommendations of the Elias Committee. Of course, justice itself is responsible for this. I have a supervisory role in that. I'll take responsibility for that. I contribute to the financing of justice and to the costs and planning of digitalisation in the KEI project. We are being closely monitored in the context of this funding. I believe that I have already promised to inform the Chamber on a regular basis. The project management was designed in accordance with the opinions of the Elias Committee, which were not yet available.The Council for Justice is the owner and client of the project. The project direction is therefore at the KEI Rechtrecht section. There are judges closely involved. They are also exempt from this. Several parts of the work to be carried out have been invested in the project and working groups, which subsequently consist of the staff of the courts. This is how the steering is designed. I will inform the Chamber of the progress of the KEI V and J programme and the KEI Judicial Programme, in accordance with the opinion of the Elias Committee, on a six-monthly basis. At the end of April, I sent the second report to the Chamber. I promised at the end of last month during the VAO on the case law that if KEI's costs differ substantially from the business case as it is now known, I will actively inform the Court of Justice about this and, by the way, unsolicited. If the financial status of the KEI programme gives rise to this, the Court will be actively informed. Mr Van Oosten has also asked how the lawyer has been approached. I have already said this in response to Mr Van Nispen's questions. Perhaps it is nice to say that in March a user acceptance test was already carried out with the foreign lawyers, and that a second user acceptance test is taking place or is going to take place with the lawyers and administrative lawyers. That way the involvement is taken care of. Mr Van Oosten is concerned about the involvement of bailiffs. The bill takes into account the request of the Royal Professional Association of Court Bailiffs that a notice of appeal can be drawn up by the bailiff and delivered to the other party before it goes to court. It helps the bailiffs spread their work better. The KBvG is also well involved in the KEI. The Foundation Network Court Bailiffs ensures an automatic system link, just like the lawyer. That, by the way, requires investment on their part. Every bailiff's office, like other chain parties, has to make the commercial decision whether it wants a very direct system link, or through the system available to everyone My Business wants to work. It goes without saying that my very non-binding advice would be to have as much system coupling as possible, because it will probably make it much more efficient. However, this is a trade-off that the bailiffs themselves have to make. This is also the subject of discussions between bailiffs and the judiciary. Mr Van Oosten asked whether the collection practice was sufficiently involved in the KEI project. Recently, KEI presented the programme to the Dutch Association of Certified Collection Companies, the NVI. There was a very positive response to the opportunities offered in the new system. It has not yet taken any initiative to participate in the construction of the system. However, KEI is in favour of cooperation. If the need arises at the Dutch Association of Certified Collection Companies, the door of the case-law is open to that. Mr Van Oosten, like Mr Van Nispen, has asked for the Council of State and the Supreme Court and has forced me to make a commitment which I have gladly made to him. I come to Mr Recourt's questions. First of all, I would like to thank him very much for recognising the importance of this legislative proposal. Like other Members, he is convinced that this is a very important step forward. Maybe I can paraphrase the way the man was on the moon: it may be a small step in ICT development, but it is a big step forward for humanity, especially for the judiciary, access to justice and the way in which you as a citizen can seek your right if it is desirable and necessary. Mr Recourt asked: is there a procedure if it turns out that the file has been manipulated? How can we verify the authenticity of the files? That has been considered and there is a good answer to it: the documents in the system cannot be modified without it being visible. So all the actions that take place in the files and in the documents are logged. The author of a document shall be linked to the document and to the case. That way, everyone can check that the files haven't been messed up. Mr Recourt asked, out of concern about people with lower education, how they get from work to work. It goes without saying that I recognise that this is a social issue that we are concerned about. I know that from other reorganisations we have had, including within the government. The courts and courts work mainly on the connection with the local network, for example through traineeships and postings, as I have just said. Within the courts there is also an explicit examination of relocation options, for example at the helpdesk and at the archive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u67	On the previous point, there is another interruption by Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u68	The archive, I think, will also not grow very much, unless the minister also means the digital archive. But all that aside. I'm interested in potentially messing with digital pieces. I must honestly say that I think it is a bold statement by the Minister when he says that every mutation in a file is visible, so there can never be manipulated with data without us seeing it. I hope that's true. I recently read a book in which it is described quite accurately that it can. It's a book by Brenno de Winter, and it's not the first one on this file. My question is, if you think there's been a mess somewhere, what are you supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u69	The Minister. He likes to pass the question on to Mr Hammerstein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u70	Let me take a look at Mr Hammerstein. I don't know if you'll allow us to do it through the little microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u71	I'm sure you can, but maybe you could step aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u72	The system must be such that it is really impossible to mess around in a case file, which is "My case." The system has to work in such a way that you can see who filed what. So there's no problem there. There are all technical possibilities to see if digital pieces have changed. If you really think something's wrong, you have to ask for the original from a digital piece. I thought the question concerned digitally submitted documents that, like copies, could have been changed. The practice does not change that. That's what you're gonna have to do. But nothing can be changed in the file.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u73	Is that enough? There's still a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u74	I'm trying to make it work for me. So the moment you think "hey, something's wrong here," you ask about the originals. Anyway, the originals are also digital. There are no paper originals underneath. Then there will have to be an investigation. That must be motivated, of course. You can't just say it's not right and then keep getting research done. There will then be an investigation into the accuracy of the claim that it is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u75	There's been a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u76	A more detailed explanation by Mr Hammerstein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u77	In the case-law case, others can no longer change anything. You can file a piece, and that's it. You can't change parts in the file. That's the point. That is the problem that Mr Recourt is referring to, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u78	Has your care been sufficiently taken away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u79	No. It's nice that this is the setup, but the essence of hacking is that you get somewhere you shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u80	That's not my job, so I can't answer that. There is still a need for the highest possible security guarantees to make this impossible. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u81	Then the Minister has the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u82	I think Mr Recourt has a concern that is understandable in itself. If you're good enough as a hacker, you can also technically do something in a system. As a result of this debate, bearing in mind that the representatives of the Council were present before the Court of Justice, I shall raise this point in my next discussion. I will ask whether these ethical hackers can be used to test precisely at this point whether it is possible to enter the system and change something unseen. That is perhaps a good solution to Mr Recourt's legitimate concern. I also note that I agree with Mr Hammerstein that in the current system, in which lawyers send documents in writing to the court, this does not necessarily have to be the same documents as the documents they send to the other party. I'm guessing that not every lawyer in every seventeen file files he submits checks that all pages are exactly the same. So there's that risk now. It is hardly ever a question of deliberate mistakes, which a hacker is, of course, concerned with. However, we do not have that certainty at the moment. So we have not created any great uncertainty that we do not need to take into account now, because we already have that. I think it would be a good thing if I raised this point in my next discussion with the Council of Ministers for Justice. Then I come to Mr Recourt's remark that lawyers have an interest in long-term litigation and his question of how to prevent it. That will not be solved in the system itself. This is mainly due to the supervision carried out by the Dutch Order of Lawyers on the basis of signals that the caselaw can convey. In the current system there is in itself an incentive for lawyers, especially lawyers who sue on the basis of funded legal aid, to sue as much as possible, because they can make money from it. It is of course up to the Dutch Order of Lawyers to organise the supervision in such a way that they have fortunately also intensified in recent years that this kind of excrement is seen early. A motion has been tabled and adopted in this Chamber, and I believe that it has been signed by a member of the VVD and by Mr Van Nispen, in which the government is asked to agree with the case law, the notary and the bailiffs to sit together with that view. It would be good if, for example, Mr Van Nispen could ask those organisations what has become of this consultation in this context. In response to Mr Recourt, I too am very pleased to say that this is a personal joy that the contact with the judge is being brought forward. The compatibility after reply was, of course, an exception in the past and is already a reasonable principle today. This has resulted in incredible purification, acceleration and improvement, at least in the civil process, in which I myself have had some experience. I remember how hard it was to ask judges to quickly plan a hearing like this when this wasn't in the law. I think it is very good that this starting point is now being taken up. I see the former judges and the former lawyers in the room nodding that this is an improvement. I am grateful to Mr Recourt for having asked for my attention. I come to the political assessment of the amendments. Mr Oskam has tabled an amendment to item No. 8 in which he wants to shorten the period I was talking about with him from six months to three months. I note that I used time limits of 12 and 24 months in a number of cases, which were also found to be necessary. Six months in itself is in many cases very short. In that light, but also in the interest of not having all those things on the roll, or whatever it is now called, it is unwise to bring that deadline back to three months. I would like to suggest to Mr Oskam that, given my arguments, I withdraw the amendment. If he does not, I will have to advise against it, partly in view of the technical assessment that has just been made by Mr Hammerstein. Mr Oskam asks in the amendment to item No. 9 in order to provide for an evaluation clause, he contends that at least three years after the last issue of digitization entered into force, at least in the case of debt securities. The aim is to report on the effectiveness and effects of the law in practice. I think this is always wise. I shall therefore leave the opinion on the amendment to the House with some joy. Mrs Helder has tabled an amendment to item No. 10. Mr Hammerstein has already made an assessment of this. This assessment means that I must discourage the amendment, but not without informing Mrs Helder that I share her point of view. I remember once I had to wait a long time for a case on appeal. I then sent a letter on behalf of a client of mine, who was really panicking because that statement just didn't come because it was a very important matter. There was then an answer from the judiciary, from the court, stating that it is generally unwise to disturb a brooding chicken. Fortunately, these letters have been in the past for a long time, but I do understand, precisely because of this frustration, Mrs Helder's remark that an explanatory statement is desirable when such a situation arises. However, I fully agree with Mr Hammerstein's remark that you will see that this is often about a number of simple things, the extent of the matter, the complexity of the case or settlement negotiations, and that this is why it is being postponed. And it won't do us much good. I must therefore, taking into account everything, advise against Mrs Helder's amendment, despite the fact that I understand very well why she has tabled the amendment. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions. I would like to make one final comment. I think it is a great honour to defend this huge bill, which is the first part of a quadruple, together with both government commissioners. It has been worked very hard by my predecessor and certainly by all the officials involved, but also by all the people in the field, the Council of Justice, the Order of Lawyers, the bailiffs and all the people who feel involved. That's a lot of them. Everyone supports the principles of the legislative proposals. I would be very proud if I could finally sign the decisions needed to bring this into force. I think that we have indeed produced the Dutch case law in the interests of the seeker for justice in the twenty-first century. That's what it takes. I believe that the process has been careful and that it is a pleasure to deal with the following three legislative proposals together with this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u83	This brought an end to the first-term response on the part of the government. In addition, I can easily imagine that the Minister has sent the relevant judge in reply that the breeding period of a chicken is three weeks. We need the second term from the Chamber. Is there a need for a second term? Yes. Is there a need for a suspension in preparation for the second term? No. I propose that we begin with this and give the floor to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u84	Mr. Chairman. I have some concluding comments. According to the SP, the bill is well structured. Of course, we have been talking about digitisation and simplification all evening. These are necessary matters for the justice system. That is what my group supports. It is important to confirm once again that access to justice is also regulated for people without the Internet or people who are not well equipped with computers. The Minister has confirmed this and my group is satisfied with it. Digital litigation is a duty for professionals, but for citizens a choice. Written procedure remains possible. That has been said again and confirmed this evening. That's important to the SP. If the system is out of the picture, the judge will not be the victim. That was also confirmed by the Minister. I welcome that, because the time limits will no longer apply and access to justice will therefore be guaranteed. I understand the Minister's concluding remarks on implementation very well, because I also have the impression that this is happening carefully. The system is built up piece by piece and tested out-and-after. During the work visit we also saw that a judge was closely involved, who was present to test the systems and give tips, even how the screen could be built more clearly. I thought that was good to see, so I made a positive impression on that. We have, however, asked for and received attention for the involvement of the lawyer. We are still concerned about that. The Dutch Order of Lawyers also regularly rings the bell about this. That seems right to me, so I would like to continue to draw attention to that. Legislation will not enter into force until systems and practice are ready. That's nice, but that goes for the legal profession as well. We talked about the "system-to-system" link. That software should simply be able to be ready in time with the information needed, because ultimately care is above speed. Should it be postponed, which my group does not hope to do, but what I can imagine if we look at the calendar now, this will entail costs. That's what I'm worried about. This applies to the SP in general for the financing of the case-law. My group has often said that the rack is out and that it can't be out at some point. We do not want justice to be in the red in the future. We just shouldn't have that. In the last debates, the Minister said that justice has an equity of 80 million, so that is not so much the problem. I've been looking into that again. I believe that the situation is slightly different, because own funds are EUR 23 million. If we keep this up, we're gonna shoot through it because it's all made up. The remaining 57 million is, in my opinion, the equalization account. That is not something that justice should be allowed to arrive at. That is precisely what is meant to cope with fluctuations in the number of cases. Can the Minister confirm that we should not say too easily that the equity of the case-law is 80 million and that there is therefore, in fact, no problem at this stage? I think there is a problem. I'm very attached to noticing that one more time. We've talked about the staff in detail. That is a very important point for the SP. I really think that we should be very careful about this. It is indeed inevitable that administrative jobs will disappear. I recognize that, too, but the commitment made by the Minister here this evening to involve participation and prevent redundancies. The Minister will forgive me if the SP remains concerned about this, but I will not be tabling a motion on it at the moment because I attach great importance to the commitments made by the Minister on this point. I've listened to that very carefully. As a Member of Parliament, I remain closely involved in this process, particularly with regard to staff. I would ask the Minister to pay attention to this every time in the progress reports, even if perhaps there is not a direct reason for this, because it is my impression that you cannot start personnel policy early enough. If you see jobs disappearing in the future, you should of course start thinking about how to prevent redundancies. I have also co-signed two other motions, but we will see that in the next few speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u85	Mr. Chairman. Mr Hammerstein and Mr Scheltema, thank you for your answers. With regard to my group's amendment, I have heard them say that it is sympathetic. The Minister shares the point of departure. He also drew attention to his previous experience as a lawyer, just like yours truly. An exotic answer like "do not disturb a breeding chicken" has fortunately been spared me, but I have been told several times: we do not need to motivate it and we are not going to do so either. That was the reason for the amendment. Before drawing up and submitting it, I also put this question to the lawyers, my former colleagues. In short, the reaction was that there is a great deal of scepticism about whether judges will actually comply with the six-week deadline that is now being proposed. That is a stick behind the door, as Mr Hammerstein said. As far as my group is concerned, that stick behind the door is not enough, given what I have just mentioned from my former colleagues. I therefore maintain the amendment and hope that colleagues in the Chamber will support it, but we await it. Because the Minister did not advise the amendment, he may not have answered the question I asked for the first time. I asked a question in case the Minister said that the amendment was not necessary. He did not say that, but I would like to repeat the question: perhaps the Minister can answer it. If deadlines are met as a rule, what kind of cases would they concern? More specifically, I asked whether it would be simple, so-called "standard cases." Can the Minister tell us what the more complex issues are? Can he call that the lead time? These are some specific questions, and I can imagine that he will not be able to answer them in the second term, but perhaps in a progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u86	Mr. Chairman. Technically-legally it is all clear and everyone can agree with it, but everyone - or at least the CDA Group - is also very concerned about finance. I think the Minister doesn't always handle it very smoothly. Because it is now clear that we are not going to make it to 1 January 2016, this is just going to cost extra money. The question is, who's gonna take the fall for that? In each case, it is not the KEI Project Bureau. It is not the Council's fault either, so I think the Minister should take the fall. He said that the Council would bear the additional costs for the case-law, but would also have the benefits in due course. I think that is a naive presentation of things. Of course, they have the extra cost if it goes this way, but the additional benefits will be broken in due course at the new price agreements, because the board will work more efficiently and then the price can be reduced. That's how it's gonna be, and that's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the delay in legislative processes to realise the KEI digitisation process, in relation to the promised half-year preparation time for the chain partners, costs more than EUR 1 million per month;]] [[Whereas the Court of Justice is expected to face significant deficits in the years 2015 to 2018;]] [[whereas the Government indicates that the costs of this delay in the 2016 budget should be borne by the Court itself;]] [[Calls on the Government not to transfer the costs of the said delay in the 2016 budget to the Court but to provide alternative cover if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34059-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u87	I had an interrupting debate with the Minister on the extra cost of 1.2 million a month because of the delay and the preparation period. I want to try to save as much money as possible for the Dutch government. Behind the scenes, there's been a lot of work on it. What is needed to roll out the whole KEI project, so that the chain partners and everyone involved are well prepared for the entry into force of legislation? It has emerged, inter alia in consultation with Projectbureau KEI, that it can be rolled out completely when the first three legislative proposals are through. We will no longer have to wait for that fourth bill. Of course, this can only come into force if all legislative proposals have been adopted by the Second and First Chambers and are in the Official Journal, but the roll-out can be done after these three legislative proposals. Hence the next encouragement motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, before the planned entry into force of the KEI project on 1 January 2016, four legislative proposals should be adopted by both Chambers;]] [[Whereas this should be done before 1 July 2015 in connection with a preparatory period promised by the Minister from six months until 1 January 2016 for all chain partners;]] [[Whereas each month the delay in the KEI project costs EUR 1.2 million and it is therefore important to avoid and minimise this delay;]] [[Whereas there is likely to be a delay in the legislative process of the four proposals;]] [[Whereas the main focus of digitisation implementation lies with legislative proposal No. 34059 and the following two legislative proposals, which, when adopted, can be carefully prepared for digitisation;]] [[calls on the Government to authorise the Court of Justice, on the assumption in both chambers of the first three legislative proposals, to make all necessary preparations to implement the KEI project six months later,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34059-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u88	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, of course, to the Minister and to the two government commissioners for their wise answers to the questions I also asked. I had a brief debate with the Minister on the three web portals being developed or developed. already exist as regards the digitisation of justice, namely the KEI project and the web portals used by the Council of State and the Supreme Court. I have listened carefully to the commitment made by the Minister on this point. Nevertheless, I think it wise that the Chamber should also give its opinion on the possible desirability of joining the words which the Minister has just said about possible efficiency gains in relation to the current three systems. That's why I'm filing the following motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Quality and Innovation Programme (KEI) provides much-needed simplification and digitisation of justice;]] [[Whereas simplification of procedural law would not be beneficial if some judicial bodies did not participate in KEI;]] [[Considering that the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State are developing their own web portal to join the digitisation process applicable to the rest of the case law;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the Supreme Court and the Council of State in order to assess whether the digitisation process still benefits from efficiency;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34059-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u89	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. And especially thanks to the Minister, the Commissioners and all the people who have worked on these legislative proposals, because that has been a huge journey. I myself have many years of experience with own-initiative laws and you will know that such a wide range of years of work, years of consultation and years of effort are tied up. Thank you very much for that. This does mean that there is now a passed bill. Two amendments have been tabled. I'd like to respond to that in advance. In a bill like this, can you say "shouldn't it be one more us or one less us?" or "doesn't the time limit have to be a little longer or a little shorter?'. However, since this is a proposal that can count on support from the field and where the deadlines have been chosen in consultation with the field, I think I would advise my group not to support the amendments, even though they may raise questions again in the First Chamber. I prefer to take the package to the First Chamber. Then we can say: this is something that especially the practice that has to work with it can live well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u90	There is an interruption by Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u91	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u92	The microphone must work, but you must press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u93	No, I'll do it with my foot. You didn't see that. You have to look down!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u94	That's okay, too. He's doing it now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u95	There is also an amendment on the evaluation. The Minister has responded positively to this. I can imagine that Mr Recourt will advise his group to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u96	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I was concerned with the amendment to item No. Amendment No 8 and Amendment No 8 11. I do not know what the piece number of the amendment on evaluation is, but I always think that evaluation is good. Even if D66 is not present, we can still opt for evaluation!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u97	The amendment in part No. 8 and that in part No. 10 have been dissuaded by the Minister. The amendment in part No. 9 has been left by him to judge Chamber. This is for clarification. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend the sitting so that the ruler may consider himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u98	The club is complete and I like to give...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u99	Mr. Chairman. The club is complete, but on my side not quite yet. I would ask you to wait a little longer until the government commissioner for the General Administrative Law Act has joined us. I get the impression he's on his way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u100	We'll wait a moment. We are still waiting for one of the directors of the government, Mr Scheltema, but we are about to begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u101	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of your Chamber for the words that have been spoken in the second term and which, in many cases, I see as supporting the legislative proposal. I have good hopes that their groups too will take a positive view of the legislative proposal. Before I begin my reply, I would first like to give the government Commissioner Mr Hammerstein an opportunity to make a few technical comments on a question put by Mrs Helder, if that is all right, of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u102	Mr. Chairman. The lead times in the caselaw are known. Those are lead times that have to do with the duration of the procedure. You can find them in the reports of the case-law and the courts. It is also well known in how many cases the verdict is delayed, but there is nowhere in my knowledge of the kind of things that cause delay. It is obvious that in a number of cases it is complicated. My experience over a long period of time is that these things don't stay down because they're complex, but that they're being treated and take a lot of time, deliberations and work. There are also delays due to peaks and valleys. There's a lot of cases coming in and there's not enough judges, so it'll take longer. The situation of people waiting for a ruling and not getting an answer is undesirable. I have already said that there is a strong notion in the case-law and in the case-law of colleagues, as far as I am aware, that timeliness is an important point. That comes out in a lot of reports. Motivating the why is not so easy at all. If it's supposed to happen, it happens in a standard way. Then the answer is: your ruling is not yet there, because the matter is not yet finished. Then you would hear in a manner of speaking: because there is too much work, because there are too many sick. You'll be more useful if you know the notion is there. That term of office is serious, it is now anchored. The judge who has to motivate will use a statement of reasons that the parties are not so pleased with. It's about the intention of timeliness. That's important. If there are really excesses, then today we have different ways. There's a complaint settlement in a court of law. You can write a letter to a president or a letter to the President of the Chamber. So there are all kinds of ways to solve this problem. That is the technical answer to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u103	Thank you. The Minister will pursue his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u104	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen has once again stressed the importance he attaches to the fact that the legal profession is well involved in the legislative proposal. He also expressed his concern about the way in which the case law deals with staff who may have to think of another job because of the introduction of this law. Once again, I welcome the fact that Mr Van Nispen, as well as Mr Recourt and other Members, have said something about this. After all, everyone will realise that it is still an uncertain time for people who face this, even if the economy is attracting them now. I would like to point out, for the sake of certainty, that in the second business case EUR 19 million had already been taken into account for this reorganisation. I think Mr Van Nispen knows that, because that's how I know him. It is therefore true that this is already taken into account in any case in the case-law. Nevertheless, I think it would be a good idea to add a paragraph to the progress report which I will send to the Chamber in consultation with the case-law. That way, I can take the Chamber into that process and let her know what the state of affairs is. Mr Van Nispen also said something about own funds. He also carefully chose his words. I have to say that again, because he is right; what I call equity consists of two components. There is the pure equity of 23 million and there is the so-called equalization account of 57 million. The principle is that volume increases are financed from the equalisation account and price differences are offset by own funds. However, it is true that, in consultation between me and the Council, equalisation reserves can also be used by the courts for investment in KEI. So that problem is solved along those lines. Isn't there a problem at all? That is certainly the case. I have already said this in general consultation. We can assume that there is a good chance that own funds will decrease over time. I have already promised to take this into account in the debate on the 2016 budget and beyond. Mrs Helder has indicated that she wants to maintain her amendment. As I said, I understand her point of departure, but I would still suggest that she reconsider this, in consultation with her group. We have to establish, also on the basis of the technical advice of the Government Commissioner, that this will lead to an act of little significance. For the judge, this will also add little. That is why this also has little added value, but it may lead to additional costs. Or it becomes a kind of automatism, like the subpoena to a large extent consists of automatically written elements. At least that applies to the old-fashioned subpoena of the past. If, even after further consideration, Mrs Helder is not prepared to withdraw her amendment, I must, on the basis of this, stick to my opinion: 'dissuade'. But of course she is free to keep her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u105	My group maintains the view that this is a stick behind the door. I said this again in the second term, supported by the reaction I received on behalf of the Bar Association on this point. So I am maintaining the amendment. I also recall that I heard from an old judge this evening that things sometimes remained in his or her time. I don't point anyone out, and I don't mention a name. The work of judges is also human work, so I still see the importance of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u106	In a philosophical sense, I can, of course, imagine anything. However, if that were the case, this amendment would not have any added value in such an individual case. The court concerned will then fill in what is best for him or her at that time. I therefore maintain my advice to the Chamber and advise against this amendment. That is what Mrs Helder and I are playing our own role. I will continue my speech. Mr Oskam has drawn attention to the financing problem. I appreciate him worrying about that. I think it would be a good idea if we continued this debate in the course of this year when we deal with budgets. Mr Oskam has also tabled a motion. This motion, in part No. 11 is actually ahead of these budgetary discussions. If there were delays and costs involved, they should not be passed on to the courts, but alternative cover should be provided. That is very difficult, because we do not know at all what the costs will be. We don't know what the timeline will be either. This is typical of the debate on the budget, when the budget is there. This is therefore dealt with in the light of the overall budget, in the light of the current situation. This motion would also lead to a breakthrough in the financial system as we know it and in which we do not make occasional financing but only do financing in the light of the overall budget. So I can only advise against this motion, because I believe that we will continue to have this debate in the future. In addition, Mr Oskam has the motion in part No. 12. It sees the question of whether it is possible to adopt the three legislative proposals and not let the latest draft law, the national law in which the introduction takes place, be decisive for that period of six months. The good thing is that I was obviously unclear when I explained when that six-month period was due to run. The idea is that the national introduction law, the fourth law, does not necessarily determine those six months. The motion, as tabled by Mr Oskam, is therefore technically possible. In a sense, it supports and underlines the importance of timely, rapid but careful implementation. With that, the motion supports policy and I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I do that because I have not been clear enough myself about when that deadline begins. Otherwise, I would have called that motion superfluous. I would like to give this advantage to Mr Oskam, and that is my own fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u107	That leads to an interruption by Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u108	That's very kind of the Minister. He's been very clear. I said: 20 December, the fourth bill will be passed by the First Chamber and then that six-month period will run. Then the Minister said quite equestrianly yes. That's what I assumed; hence the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u109	The motion makes that clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u110	Then we agree, Mr President. Mr Van Oosten has a motion, on item No. 13, in which he kindly requests me to consult the High Council and the Council of State again in order to ascertain whether the digitisation project has any efficiency gains. Who could be against such a motion? Apparently, I didn't make a strong commitment to this either. I would like to give Mr Van Oosten the advantage that I have also given Mr Oskam. Apparently, I have not been clear enough in my commitment. Otherwise, I could have thought it was an unnecessary motion. I do not think so at the moment, and that is why I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the direction of Mr Recourt, I would like to say that in the five minutes suspension of the debate we have just had on the question of what exactly the case law is doing about the problem of changing information that Mr Recourt has brought to the attention of the House. This leads to an answer with an endless range of English ICT terminologies, but the essence is that justice is convinced that there are sufficient safeguards at the moment. Nevertheless, he is prepared to use these security measures on this particular point. I will take that into account in the progress report that I will send to the Chamber in accordance with the agreement. In doing so, I have dealt with all the questions raised by the Chamber and I would like to thank Members very warmly for the very thorough, substantive and very professional handling of this important legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-13.u111	I thank the Minister for his reply. I would also like to thank all the speakers for their input and for their interest. The vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday. I wish everyone a pleasant ending to an active day.
