ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber. I call Mrs Prast. I should be pressing the bell right now, but everyone knows that Mrs. Prast is making her maiden speech. So I'm not pressing the mood bell. Mrs. Prast. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before going into today's subject, transfer and mutualisation of bank contributions, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister on his re-election as President of the euro group last July. Mr. Chairman. Banks that are too important to go bankrupt have a guarantee that they will not fall over, so that vital functions for the economy remain. Previously that guarantee was implied, with the resolution scheme it becomes explicit. That is a good thing, because then conditions can be set that reduce the risk of failure, and it can be avoided that if it goes wrong, the bill will end up with the government. My group supports the banking union, and in principle also the resolution fund and the mutuation of contributions to it. When assessing the legislative proposal, we apply, inter alia, the following principles laid down in the relevant directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. I quote: 'Safeguarding effective and adequate funding of the fund is of paramount importance for credibility' and 'In order to ensure a fair calculation of contributions and to encourage the development of less risky activities, the degree of risk to institutions should be taken into account when determining contributions'. Of course, the term "institutions" means banks. In the written round we asked questions about the financing and investments of the Single Resolution Fund and thanked the Minister for his response in the reply. However, our concerns have certainly not been removed. We wonder whether the calculation system does not encourage the development of less risky activities rather than discourage them and are not reassured that this bill reduces the chance that the account of instability will reach the government. I'd like to explain this. According to the bill, large banks pay a basic contribution related to their size, and a correction is applied to that contribution according to the risk they take. We have asked the Minister why the proposed bandwidth for this risk weighting is so small. Let's say two banks are the same size, but different risk profiles. Their basic contribution is the same, but one takes much more risk than the other. Have we understood that the most risky bank does not pay twice as much as the safest, no matter how much risk it takes? By way of comparison, according to the Dodd-Frank Act, adopted in the US as a response to the crisis, the most risky system bank pays up to 18 times as much to the deposit guarantee fund as the same safest bank. We had hoped that the Minister could assure us that a larger range of equipment would have no effect given the risk profile of the banks concerned. However, the Minister gives other explanations for the limited bandwidth. He argues that a deposit guarantee fund and a resolution fund should not be compared, that the resolution fund is only addressed after a bail-in of investors and other non-insured creditors, and that the disciplinary effect for banks of the fund is mainly in the bail-in instrument. At the same time, however, he pointed out that no creditor should be worse off in the event of resolution; this meant worse off than in the case of bankruptcy. My group has difficulty understanding this answer. I therefore have a number of questions for the Minister. Is it not the world upside down when, as governments, we introduce a risk weighting that does not discourage but encourages risk taking, and then ask investors to neutralize that perverse incentive? Does the Minister consider that the threat of a bail-in is more disciplined than a bankruptcy threat, and therefore justifies a more limited risk weighting for the resolution fund than for a deposit guarantee fund? If so, why would a bail-in discipline more than bankruptcy? Surely no creditor can be worse off by resolution than in bankruptcy? If no, why is a more limited risk weighting for resolution than usual for a deposit guarantee? The Minister further states that the contribution increases with the size of the bank, that larger banks take more risk and that therefore a larger bank itself pays a higher risk-weighted contribution. I wouldn't mind if the contribution didn't go up by the size! After all, the bigger the bank, the more resources will be involved in any settlement. My group is concerned with the question of whether two equally large banks that differ in risk are taxed in an appropriate proportion of their risk. If not, the fund encourages risk taking. Does the Minister agree with us that a fair and effective contribution takes into account both the possibility of the bank having to use the fund and the scale of the appeal? If so, how can the limited bandwidth be argued by referring to the contribution by size? I also ask the Minister whether he agrees that discipline requires investors and uninsured creditors to consider bail-in credible. The IMF, our own Central Planning Bureau and recently the Netherlands Bank have shown that systemically relevant banks in the European Union still have much easier and cheaper funding than non-systemically relevant institutions. In fact, this shows that people think they are not at risk if they entrust their money to these banks. This advantage of what is called the "too big to fail" implied subsidy was estimated by the Dutch system banks in 2012 to be 3.9 billion euros. The fact that the market doesn't take a bail-in into account isn't so weird. The BRRD offers the possibility to avoid resolution through public capital injections. Furthermore, resolution authorities may only partially apply the bail-in instrument if its full use would be contrary to the economic and financial interests of the Member State or of the Union. The crisis has underlined the importance of taking into account interrelated factors. Suppose Dutch pension funds invest in shares and bonds of Dutch system banks and hold uninsured ones, because over €100,000 outbound funds are held. So they'll have to pay for a bail-in. How likely is it that the government will let this happen? Has the Minister mapped out what full bail-in settlement of a Dutch system bank would mean for the coverage of, for example, ABP? Does he see an opportunity to increase the credibility of bail-in through demands on pension funds' investment policies, and to protect employees and pensioners? We also ask the Minister what he means by the statement in his reply that "a good balance has been found in the method of calculating contributions (...)." What balance is he referring to here? The Minister also stresses that the current design does not impose a greater burden on the banking sector than is strictly necessary. What does he mean by "strictly necessary"? Previously, the Minister prejudged to the House of Representatives that the total contribution of the Dutch banking sector to the fund, i.e. the entire ten-year construction period, is estimated to be EUR 4.5 billion. It gets a little higher if they take more chances. That is less than half a billion a year, much lower than the implicit subsidy of 3.9 billion a year to the Dutch system banks, as calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. What I said before is all the more true from the moment the fund reaches its target size. Banks will no longer have to pay any contributions. In the written round, my group expressed concerns about this. After all, this seems neither fair nor effective. The United States has chosen to allow banks to contribute in proportion to size and risk, but at lower rates, after the deposit guarantee fund has reached its target size. Another way is if the fund has reached its target size, to have banks contribute each year on the basis of their existing size and risk profile, and to give them a refund based on their past contributions. A bank that has remained the same in terms of size and risk profile will play even; a bank that is larger and/or more risky will have to pay extra; a bank that has become smaller and/or safer will receive money back on balance. According to the Minister, would it no longer be in line with the principles and objectives of establishing banks even after the target size has been reached on the basis of their size and level of risk, according to one of the methods outlined just now? Finally, the investments of the Single Resolution Fund. My group would think that the fund should be maintained in a way that ensures that when the need arises, the resources are available, and quickly, and that the investments are not themselves an instability creating factor. According to the legislative proposal, investments must be sufficiently geographically and sectorally spread. This suggests that the fund may be invested in the private sector. My group would like to hear from the Minister whether this is true. If so, my group wonders whether the fund can be invested in shares and bonds of system banks. We do not see that the bill precludes this. My group asked the Minister in the written round how to avoid the value of the fund moving along with that of the banks. The Minister replies that correlation seems limited, as banks hold much less liquid assets than the resolution fund. According to the Minister, is this the only form of correlation? When the fund invests in system banks, does the value of the fund's investments move along with the value of the banks that may help the fund settle? And doesn't it mean that the fund itself is one of the uninsured creditors who fall under a bail-in? How does the Minister intend to prevent decisions in the event of imminent failure from being unduly affected? And what if the fund invests in listed companies that are creditors of the bank that gets into trouble, in companies that hold accounts there? Does not the bail-in lead to a reduction in the value of the company and thus to a reduction in the fund's capital, just when the fund is most needed? The crisis has shown how important it is to be aware of risks and interlinkages. My group is asking the Minister how this will be reflected in the fund's investment policy and how he would be opposed to holding the fund to the European Central Bank. Madam President. I'll come to a conclusion. The D66 Group is in favour of a single resolution fund with the mutualisation of national contributions, but has concerns about the design. I hope the Minister can take it away and look forward to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. Congratulations on your maiden speech, on the first day after the recess. Allow me to outline something of your background in this place. You studied biology for several years and later economics at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. From 1985 to 2002, you were associate professor of general economics and obtained your PhD in Economics in 1996. From February 1997 to October 2007 you were a researcher at the Nederlandsche Bank. From 1 January 2008 until October 2011 you were a member of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. You have also been Professor of Personal Financial Planning at the Tilburg School of Economics and Management since 2005. You have published a large number of scientific and popularizing articles, books and professional publications, both in Dutch and in English and Italian. Your publications cover a wide range of topics: monetary policy, financial supervision, herding behaviour in financial markets, pensions and sustainability. I mention some titles of your work: Money and happiness, Money and feeling and Everything revolves around money. It's like a bouquet novel or something. As a member of the Committees for Finance and Economic Affairs in the First Chamber, in the bosom of the Parliament you explore a subject that is not strange to you: money and politics. In 2013 you made an original comparison in Het Financieele Dagblad between Mr Darcy's "10.000 a year" described by Jane Austen and the legislation on personal financial planning that you consider to be inadequate. As you have consistently advocated in your publications for responsible personal financial policy, you will undoubtedly point out in your work in the Chamber also to the national authorities its responsibilities. If I wanted to paraphrase the opening rules of Jane Austen's aforementioned book, I would say: it is a truth universally acknowledged that a country in position of a good fortune must be in want of good financial planning. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I'm suspending the sitting to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. I am in a happy position as a speaker to be caught between two colleagues who are making their maiden speech today. I congratulate the Senators Prast and Van Apeldoorn warmly on this beautiful and important moment. Mr. Chairman. Once again, the European Union is being tested. Not because of a completely derailed banking sector or because of destructive fiscal policies of some of its Member States. No, we are now talking about a humanitarian crisis caused by large groups of people who have drifted, men and women who, together with their children, are seeking a way out of the war and hopelessness. And yes, Europe cracks again. Imagine, however, that the EU was not there to deal with this problem, that it would only be for itself. You know once again, so reasoningally, that the European Union is much more than an economic ideal. It's a civilization ideal. It is also, it must be, an actor who stands up and acts when needed. That is now on again, as was the case and has been the case since the outbreak of the banking crisis in 2008. The agreement that is before us today for discussion in our Chamber is the result of the agreements made in connection with the implementation of the Banking Union. To this end, several directives and regulations have already been issued in recent years, including for the establishment of common rules, for the supervision of banks and banking groups and for decision-making in the event of institutions encounter financial difficulties. At the heart of the latter is the lifting at European level of the resolution of financial institutions facing irreversible problems, to which banks are raising a single resolution fund. The Labour Party has supported the establishment of a full European banking union. Such a union is in line with the increased interdependence of the European banking system and the European ambition to stand together. In this context, a Single Resolution Fund is appropriate to prevent future public bailouts from again taking place and to lay the primary responsibility on banks and their shareholders themselves. It is striking that the creation and future mutualisation of the Single Resolution Fund has been made in the form of an agreement, rather than in the form of a directive or a regulation as always used in the other parts of the Banking Union. We understand that Germany, in particular, was in favour of general agreement, rather than qualified majority voting. Now, of course, it is only very nice when the resolution fund can count on the agreement of all the individual participating Member States. Nevertheless, my group is surprised by such a course of action. Is it the case, in my first question to the Minister, that laws and regulations can be chosen at European level, shopped if you like, to do so outside of Union law? In that case, what are the arguments and criteria behind this? In other words, when does our government consider it justified or even desirable to establish agreements which clearly concern EU matters, in many cases directly from directives or regulations, with an international agreement in which the Union and its representatives are not themselves parties? Does the Minister consider it desirable that political power relations determine not only the content of laws and regulations, but also their legal form? The creation of a bank-funded fund which will soon be available for cross-border use for the unexpected resolution of banks is an essential element of the European Banking Union. This should prevent the use of public funds for the maintenance of so-called "too-big-to-fail" banks in the future. College Prast already referred to that. The growth of the fund, with increasing annual amounts and phased mutualisation, is also realistic and therefore sensible. However, the size of the fund could be questioned. EUR 55 billion is a lot of money, but still less than just the more than 70 billion of emergency measures that the Dutch State has had to take in the context of the rescue plan of the various banks (ABN AMRO, ING, SNS and others) since the outbreak of the credit crisis in 2008. Are we not running the risk, I ask the Minister, that the resolution fund will turn out to be too small to succeed? Has the government itself made an assessment of the desired size of the fund? And, in case it deviates from the 55 billion that the fund is going to amount to under the agreement we are discussing today, how is it going to advocate this within the Banking Union? Despite this small size of the resolution fund, we also note that the bail-in of the banks through the Single Resolution Fund is not only a useful instrument for resolution, but also a threshold for reckless behaviour. This is also in the knowledge that banking crises are of all times, including with a European Banking Union, including a common and fully mutualised resolution fund. Continuing efforts to keep preventive and behavioural surveillance on track and to have appropriate resolution mechanisms in place are therefore necessary. Which brings me to my final questions to the Minister. If I understand correctly, President Juncker will present tomorrow the plan for the completion of Europe's economic and monetary union. The report with the same title, which was published a few months ago, and which also contains the name of our Minister of our Finance Minister as President of the Eurogroup, refers to the completion of the banking union under the Financial Union section. Of course, the Single Resolution Fund, which we are discussing today, plays an important role in this. However, reference is also made to a common back-up mechanism for this fund, to a common deposit guarantee scheme and to the launch of the capital market union. Can the Minister indicate when these latter steps are foreseen and whether the resolution fund is already sufficiently rigged to be effective? We look forward to the answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u5	I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn, who will give his maiden speech. Now I'm gonna let the bell ring, so everyone knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Prast. It's an honor to have my maiden speech here in this house today. Especially on the opening day of the new parliamentary year. And I hope that you too, Madam President, as well as my fellow senators, have been able to enjoy a well-deserved holiday so that from now on we can look seriously again at serious matters. And the banking union, whose agreement on the Single Resolution Fund, which would be approved by this Chamber by this law, is the provisional conclusion, is a serious matter. It is about the future stability of the banking sector, about whether we can restore it to the service of society and the future of Europe. I remember taking the first euro notes out of the vending machine on holiday in Spain. I too was quite impressed with the new money. As a tourist and a European citizen, I also saw the benefits of it. As a political economist, however, I was sceptical, but I too could not see what an historic mistake of epic proportions would become monetary union. Unfortunately, we now have to note that the euro has become a piece of cake and has begun to undermine the European project, which has already been subject to increasing market fundamentalism. And that makes me sad. The euro is threatening to destroy more than I like. I feel Dutch, but also European, was and am in favour of close European cooperation. But this European project is likely to be a failure, partly because of the tragedy of the euro. A tragedy that is not only over in Greece, after this summer's stranglehold agreement, but also not before EMU as a whole. Uncertainty remains an asset for the time being. So, what's next? I don't envy the minister. He also has a cold, I see. Unfortunately, there are no easy solutions. I think everyone agrees on that. No one has the wisdom in rent. But even if we cannot solve the problem of the single currency, I am sure that we can tackle the problem of banks better than the new European framework will be. The Banking Union is a first step towards building a new structure to strengthen the governance of EMU. However, the SP Group fears that this will lead to an increasingly undemocratic Europe, while the banking union will not solve the structural problems of the financial sector. This banking union is, in our view, the wrong solution to the problem created by successive European governments which, through deregulation and the lack of an adequate response to developments in the private sector, have made it possible for the European economy to become increasingly financialised. Banks and bankers have been given increasing freedom and the financial sector has grown out of all proportion. The financial sector was and is primarily a banking crisis. A crisis created by bankers, by the private sector, which only became a crisis of the public sector because the private losses of bankers have been massively socialised, i.e. taxpayers pay for it. My group believes that the Banking Union, and in particular the creation of a Single Resolution Fund, is not going to solve this problem. Even if you agree with the principles of this banking union, you may well wonder whether this banking union will achieve its goals and whether it will do so in a sound and democratic manner. What is the purpose of this Banking Union and the Resolution Fund? According to this Minister, ensuring financial stability and minimising public costs should bank resolution occur in a crisis. We have heard this Minister and other supporters say many times: with this banking union we have finally solved the problem that citizens have to bleed for the failure of bankers. Taxpayers will be kept out of sight as banks in trouble from now on. However, isn't the reality rather that the Dutch taxpayer is still simply paying for it from the start and if banks really get in trouble massively will also just get the bill presented? Is financial stability now sufficiently guaranteed or should the European Finance Ministers have the courage to opt for a much more radical approach to the sector? Finally, will we not have another problem in the form of an even greater democratic deficit in the Union? I shall now go into all these three points, which also raise a number of questions for the Minister. On the first point, although at first instance, the principle of bail-in applies. However, it is limited to only 8% of the balance sheet total. Does that bail-in work sufficiently disciplined and effective, also given the exceptions to the liabilities that are possible? Mr Prast referred to this as well. If the bail-in is not sufficient, the resolution fund comes into view, which is filled with contributions directly collected from the banks themselves. However, in the case of the Netherlands, even in the media, little attention has been paid to this issue. This means that the State is losing a lot of revenue. So this is a tax subsidy that will have to be paid by the rest of the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with me that in this way the taxpayer is actually paying for the fund? Can the Minister inform this Chamber of the amount of the annual amount involved, in other words: how much the State will in this way lose tax revenue, and the Dutch taxpayer will thus contribute to supplementing the resolution fund? And can the Minister inform the Chamber of why this scheme was chosen? The Minister made it appear to be a natural choice. Why, however, if the starting point was to spare the taxpayer as much as possible, was it not chosen not to allow this deduction or at least to limit it? As is well known, there are several Member States that have not made these contributions deductible. Why didn't they follow their example? Can the Minister tell us which countries we are talking about? According to my information, at least France and Germany, not the least. Does the Minister not find it strange that the Dutch taxpayer does contribute to the fund and, for example, our German neighbours do not? Without this tax deduction, however, the taxpayer will not be excluded. For what if the fund itself is inadequate and the snare jar is then emptied? The ultimate objective of the fund is 55 billion. This is an unimaginable amount for most people, but it is ultimately very limited by the size of the banking sector, i.e. 1%. So if several large European banks at the same time threaten to fall, if there is a new system crisis, it is already clear that this pot will soon be empty. The Council agreement of 18 December 2013 agreed that, if the fund is exhausted, tax money could also be used, eventually, after the transitional period, through the creation of a public backstop or a common backstop. The principle to be explained to no taxpayer that profits are private but any major losses in the last instance are covered by the public is thus simply maintained. Moreover, the Minister has indicated that he is not in favour of such a back-up and that he does not consider it necessary. It seems that, unlike his colleagues, his confidence in the new system is so great. But that common backup will come, at least that is the way it is agreed. Or does the Minister think he can stop this? Is he not also bound by European agreements on this matter? And are we not really going to have a completely different system from what this minister is in favour of? It is also unclear what the backstop will consist of, for example whether or not the ESM will play this role. The government is not in favour of this either. But what is the current state of affairs in Europe with regard to the discussion on the common backstop? Which way is it going? The SP Group invites the Minister to comment on this in more detail in his reply. It was also agreed that during the transitional period, i.e. over the next eight years, a system of public bridge financing would be in place, should the snare jar not yet fully filled during that period not be sufficient in the event of an acute crisis. That's an unlikely scenario. After all, the pot is only gradually being replenished and, precisely during the transitional period, the fund is at its most vulnerable. A bridge financing system of this kind should be operational on 1 January, at the same time as the settlement fund enters into force. It is clear from the documents that until now no concrete agreements have been reached. Can the Minister inform the Chamber of the state of play on this matter? And if no decisions have yet been taken on this, can the Minister tell us what that means for the hoped entry into force of the resolution fund on 1 January? The Minister has previously indicated that the Dutch Government is not in favour of the use of the ESM for this bridge financing. How does the Minister see the chance that his preference will also be achieved in the agreements to be made? And what will be the role of the national parliaments in whether or not to provide this bridge financing, and so again the use of public funds to save banks? Can the Minister go into that further? Our second fundamental objection is that the banking union will not be sufficiently effective when it comes to the objective of financial stability. In the view of the members of the SP Group, far too little is still being done to prevent a new systemic crisis, in order to prevent the public sector from taking on the debt of the private sector. Banks in Europe are still often too large and potentially too fragile and, at the same time, very intertwined, so that there is still a high risk of contagion between banks. In the Lower House, the Omtzigt/Merkies motion, which called on the Minister to take measures to prevent new mergers of banks that have been supervised by the ECB, unfortunately failed. In his previous written answer to our questions, the Minister refers to the Antonveneta Directive. It would like to see the cabinet strengthened in order to assess the effects on the stability of the financial system of mergers or acquisitions. The SP Group would like to know from the Minister about the government's efforts to place this on the European agenda. Are there any concrete progress to be made here? I would also like to stress that in our view this approach will not be enough and a total ban on mergers would be a bigger step in the right direction. The Minister argues that there would be no legal basis for this. Can the Minister explain this further and also comment on whether it would be possible, by sufficient political will, to create that basis? Does the Minister agree with us that the problem of too big to fail has still not been solved with this banking union, and that the resolution fund is not going to provide that solution either? And yet there are much simpler and more effective solutions. If we were to make real progress, for example, on the De Wit Committee's recommendation to split banks into a business part and a utility part, and if we were to make banks smaller, more national, rather than ever larger and more international, wouldn't we be well on our way? Cut the benches and make sure they are no longer too big to fail. If we then put the bank's savings into government hands, turn it into real public utilities, we would be on the right track. After all, this part of the banking sector fulfils a core function of public services and should therefore not go bankrupt. Logic dictates that what should not go bankrupt should not be in private hands either. This is a logic which should appeal to any rightful supporter of the free market economy, as should any rightful socialist or social democrat. If we were to take that follow-up step, the remaining private part of the banking sector, where large profits are made in the casino of global capital markets, with all the risks of that, could also simply go bankrupt. Then you don't need the Single Resolution Fund in our vision at all. And then we would not have to take another step leading to a further erosion of national democracy. That brings me to my third and final part of my speech. With the shift to the European level, the control capacity of national parliaments has become extremely limited. At the same time, that democratic gap is not necessarily closed at European level. After all, who exactly is going to control this independent Board, which, by the way, is mainly composed of former bankers? And which democratic bodies are involved in its decisions? There will only be ex post accountability to the European Parliament. The States-General, soon celebrating their 200th anniversary, stand by and look at it. My group also has doubts about the external control, in terms of an audit, of the institutions involved in the banking union, and therefore the effectiveness and effectiveness of the corresponding policies. This concerns firstly the supervision of the ECB with regard to the banking supervision transferred to the ECB, and secondly, the control of the so-called Board and the Single Resolution Mechanism. In answering our written questions, the Minister admits that the current powers of the European Court of Auditors in this regard are not yet at the same level as those of our own General Court in relation to the Netherlands Bank. But now a resolution fund is being filled up, while the external control of the institutions involved is not yet properly regulated. In the view of the SP Group, this is a serious point. Does the Minister share our concerns about this? To what extent does he intend to effectively close this control hole and by what means and at what time? In his written reply, the Minister indicated that he would contact the General Court in order to explore this point further. Has that contact taken place by now? If so, what has come out of it? If not, what does the Minister expect to come out of this reconnaissance? I'm closing up. What is it about in the core? At the heart of the matter is that we find a way to make the banks effectively perform the functions that are essential for the real economy, so that they can be of service to society, and ensure that the citizens do not pay for the costs when bankers make a pot of it. The Minister believes that this banking union has at least reached that last point. As I have said, the SP Group has reasonable doubts about this. And this while the taxpayer is almost completely out of line in democratic terms. The SP Group is therefore not yet convinced of this bill, but it hopes to get answers from the Minister to its questions. This may still offer room for improvement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Van Apeldoorn. Congratulations on your maiden speech. You have studied international relations at the University of Amsterdam, where you studied two semesters abroad: one semester at the University of Exeter and one at York University in Ontario. In 1999 you received your PhD in Political and Social Sciences at the European University Institute in Florence. You have worked at this institute as a scientific researcher and as a research assistant. From 1998 to 2000, you were also postdoctoral fellow at the Max Planck Institute for Social Studies in Cologne. Since 2000, you have been affiliated with the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. Initially as a university lecturer in international relations, later as associate professor and nowadays as training director of the Bachelor and Master's degree in Politicology. In addition, you have been a research leader at the Amsterdam Global Change Institute since June 2011. Last year, you and three other international scientists founded the Elite Power Investigations Centre, which researches the power and power of elites in national, transnational and world politics. You too have a large number of publications in your name, including on European budgetary surveillance, monetary policy, banking regulation and geopolitics. The subject we are discussing today fits in perfectly with that. In an article in the Volkskrant in May 2013, you advocated preventive nationalisation of banks to prevent speculation and risky investment. Today, you have once again proved your affinity with this subject. Your scientific and social experience predicts an interesting further contribution to the work of the Chamber. Mr van Apeldoorn, I wish you every success. Before suspending the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech, I would first like to ask if one of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to congratulate Mrs Prast and Mr Van Apeldoorn on their maiden speeches. They have asked me a series of very critical questions, so I already understand that they are not going to make life easy for me in the coming years. And that's the way it should be. I would like to make a few comments in advance in order to outline the context of this treaty. It's an intergovernmental agreement. Mr Postema has asked questions about this. Why was that chosen? First of all, I would like to explain the position of the treaty in the banking union as a whole, because that is important. If you just focus on the fund and look at how much comes in, or look at the risk weighting of the levy for the fund, you say: well, that's a shaky structure if it has to depend on it. It is, if it were. But, of course, the construction starts with capital requirements, which have been considerably tightened up and which are almost as we speak, while this debate is taking place, are being tightened even further. Globally systematically relevant banks, i.e. internationally relevant institutions, are currently under discussion in the G20 framework. They will eventually land in European legislation of the so-called TLAC, the total loss-absorbing capacity. In Europe there is the MREL, which sees the same thing: do banks have sufficient bail-in capital on the balance sheet? That is all still being filled in and worked out. The leverage ratio has been set at a minimum of 3 in Europe for the time being, but in G20 the international institutions are already talking about 6. The risk-weighted capital requirements for these large institutions go to 16 to 20. The final negotiations are now taking place. The whole structure of capital requirements is therefore constantly being tightened up. That's perfectly right. The main lesson of the crisis must be that institutions themselves must be able to bear losses. If we don't get that right, we can keep filling our funds forever, but they can be wiped out again. Then the taxpayer will be attacked again. Institutions themselves and those able to benefit from the profits of the financial sector in the good years must also bear the risks and take the losses in the bad years. This requires capital requirements, first and foremost, as I said. Secondly, it requires rules for bail-in, so it can put back the risks and pass on losses to investors or those who have put risk money into the financial institutions. Those bail-in rules are laid down in the BRRD. We're already at a level of minimum bail-in. From 1 January the deeper bail-in hierarchy will apply. This means, first of all, that up to at least 8% of the liability base should be used if the losses are so large. Some people say that is not enough, only 8%. Looking back at the financial crisis and all bank rescues, nationalisations and bailouts that have taken place, with the exception of one or two very special examples in Ireland, which have been 8% bail-in sufficient to cover losses. If we had those bail-in rules at that time, what happened in the financial crisis would not have been necessary, namely that governments had to put billions in it and governments were left behind with a very large public debt. Suppose that 8% would not be enough, in very exceptional cases. Because, as I said, we have also increased all the capital requirements, buffer requirements and systemic requirements. So the bank's own buffer is bigger. If the first 8% of losses were to be pushed back to investors not yet sufficient to cover the remaining losses, there would be a low of 5% even greater losses, using, again under strict conditions, the Resolution Fund. That resolution fund is not public money either. This is brought about by the sector itself. Mr Postema and others asked: is the 55 billion sufficient? In the old circumstances, 55 billion would have been totally inadequate, but in the new structure of much higher capital requirements, much stricter supervision and bail-in rules, I think 55 billion should be more than sufficient. Should this not be the case in a very serious systemic crisis, will the account still go to the taxpayer, as Mr Van Apeldoorn argued? That is not the case, because even then the sector will still have to make up for deficits in the fund by means of so-called ex post taxes, i.e. post levies. That can be done gradually, because if the amount were very large, you would not be able to turn it over to the sector at once. If the amount were very large, it would be possible to do so gradually. But again, look at the fund, and certainly the risk weights on the charge, not as an independent thing, like: this is it then. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is a structure that in all respects, both in terms of capital requirements, risk weights, buffers, supervision, bail-in investors and in terms of the fund's losses, is many times more solid than what we had before. One important reason why we can do this, as I say to the SP Group, is that we are tackling it at European level. There have been countries that have tried to apply a deeper bail-in to investors at national level in the past. Denmark is the most far-reaching example of this. For many years the Danish banks have had to pay the bill from the capital market, because that small country on its own had been so bold as to make investors bleed. That was a very good choice for Denmark in principle, but a country such as Denmark is vulnerable. That is why we have applied bail-in to the rescue of the SNS Bank, but only to the level of junior unions. We haven't hit senior unions from Denmark's experience. Next time, we'll do it differently. Next time, saving SNS wouldn't require public money. It's as simple as that, and that's how it has to work. The same applies to the rescue of ABN, which has, of course, required much more public money. So we have made two strokes with the Banking Union at the same time. On the one hand, we pushed the risks back from public to private. I would remind you that at the start of the Banking Union in Europe, the discussion was very much about shifting the risks from public-national to public-European. The Netherlands and other countries are opposed to this, and rightly so. The cart got moving when we said to each other: isn't it crazy that the account of private financial institutions has to be paid every time by taxpayers, and doesn't it lead to perverse effects? That cart got moving when we said: yes, that's the wrong approach; we need to go from public to private. That is where the risks must be invested and where they can be carried. The second change that we have made with the Banking Union, which is totally overlooked, is that, as we gradually share risks at European level, for example in the resolution fund that we are going to build over the next few years, we will reduce those risks simultaneously. We do this through better supervision, stricter requirements and risk weights. This is how we build a structure that has much less risk. And if those risks still occur, we have a lot more layers of private capital, three, to cover those risks. Enough about the wider context of this proposal. What is the reason why the proposal has been given this legal form? There was a political and a legal discussion about it. The first political reason was that an intergovernmental agreement requires the agreement of all countries, that is to say unanimity and the approval of all parliaments. This has been supported by several of my colleagues and by me. On such a major fundamental step, we felt that this would be more of a strengthening of democratic support than a narrowing of it. The second reason was, if possible, even more compelling. The German legal base says that if Germany has to collect bank charges from German institutions, this cannot be done on the basis of a European legal basis. These funds come first from the German government and are then paid to the resolution fund. This affects German budget law. This requires an intergovernmental agreement between countries and explicit approval by the German Parliament. I am not a German lawyer, so do not ask me if this reasoning would have lasted until the Supreme Court in Karlsruhe. However, many German lawyers have argued this. If my German colleague says that it stops there for him and that he can only do it so or not, that is the balance we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u9	Then how can we all have expressed the wish, and even the expectation, as the explanatory statement shows, that it will eventually become part of secondary Union law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u10	On the one hand, that is a political wish. On the other hand, the German colleagues have said that this would require a treaty change first. Then a European Treaty establishes a legal basis for the establishment of this fund and the direct levying of financial institutions in Germany, throughout the Union or in the Banking Union. There is no direct legal basis in any treaty. When the last treaties were made, we did not know that idea at all. So it requires a treaty change. For example, we all have a number of issues in our pockets that need to be properly regulated at some point in the treaty. Then it can also be incorporated into EU law. The debate on whether the Community method is always legally, politically or in principle better than the governmental approach can also take place in a broader sense. I'm not convinced of that. Europe has many forms of intergovernmental cooperation and competences that are placed in real European institutions on the basis of European treaties. That doesn't necessarily have to be a weakening. Then I would like to comment on the questions that have been asked. I would like to begin with Mrs Prast's questions. It has made an important point about the risk weighting of the levy that banks have to pay to the fund. I can be very brief about that: I would have liked that risk weighting to have been heavier. At the same time, even if you had made her a factor five larger, it would not be a sufficient steering element for risks in large financial institutions. We should not exaggerate the expectation of how much more is based on a more risk-weighted tax base. This is the outcome of a negotiation process, in which this point has simply been raised. How much risk must weigh? How heavy should the size of the balance sheet total weigh? In any case, it was very important for us that all banks should contribute. An important question was also whether we could exempt small banks. I think I know that in the banking union, in many small banks together, there may be as many risks as in the big banks. That is why I believe that the supervision of small banks should also be strengthened. So it is important that all banks pay. There's a weighting factor and a bandwidth in it. This is a difference of 1.875% between the highest and lowest taxes. It would indeed have been better if it had been bigger, but I do not think that would have had a very large steering effect on risk profiles of banks. Mrs Prast mentioned the example of the US deposit guarantee fund. In that the risk weighting and therefore the bandwidth is much greater. I am afraid to say that this has fundamentally reduced the risk profiles of the US banks. I couldn't back that up. The answer to her question as to whether it is important that a fair and effective contribution also takes into account the possibility of how much use is made of the fund is, of course, yes. I very much agree with that. It is a combination of the size of the bank and the risks contained in it, and the risk factor could have outweighed; I agree with Mrs Prast. Mrs Prast also quoted from the written reply, in which I argued that the burden on the sector does not have to exceed what is necessary. I think that was in response to a question that was about what happens when the fund is full. Once there is 55 billion in it, the sector does not have to continue to pay. By the way, this 55 billion has not been given for eternity. Banks are gonna fall down, too. The fund may also be used once. Part of the fund will then be used and it will have to be supplemented by the ex-post levies from the sector. But in itself it is true that once the fund is full and stable, the sector does not have to pay. That seems to me to be justified in itself. After all, we are not doing a criminal exercise in the banking sector. We are setting up a number of buffers to improve the soundness and stability of the sector. That's why I wrote "no bigger than strictly necessary." Mrs Prast also spoke about the threat of bail-in. I very much believe in that. In her words, I can taste the question of whether we can rely on it and whether it will work. I think that a dangerous discussion, which is also very much fed up as politicians, central bankers and supervisors keep asking whether it will work. Whether it works is up to us. We make the legislation. The supervisors ensure that it is actually applied. Resolution authorities shall ensure that banks have a resolution plan and sufficient bail-in capital instruments on the balance sheet. It's in our hands if we can apply it. Of course, there are investors who keep yelling: I still have to see if they're doing it. For me, however, it is obvious. In the cases we have had over the last few years in Portugal and Austria, we have also started to apply the bail-in to an increasing extent. From 1 January onwards, in all the countries of the Banking Union that have implemented the BRRD Treaty, the deeper bail-in rules apply. I therefore believe that we really have it in our own hands or that the instrument will be effective, and I am referring also to the banking supervisors and resolution authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u11	It's not just about whether you can control the bail-in when the time comes, because that's what you have. The point is that there's only a threat of bail-in, and therefore a behavioral influence, if the market believes you're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u12	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u13	If it isn't, it has no disciplinary effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u14	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u15	Will you put your interruption through the chairman next time, Mrs. Prast?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u16	Yeah, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u17	In this light, Mrs Prast also mentioned the advantage that "too big to save" banks have in their funding. It noted that as long as that advantage exists, it seems that it is not believed that the new requirements are strict enough. She mentioned a figure from 2012. I think this funding advantage will decrease along two routes. I can see that already happening to banks in Europe. Firstly, capital requirements are changing. I have bankers coming to me regularly, without mentioning any names, expressing their concerns about the new capital requirements and what they mean for the costs. The loans are always brought in. By the way, it just attracts in the meantime, also because profitability is good. Right now, as we speak, the capital requirements on our banks are really increasing. There is even another discussion about CRD IV, Basel IV, with possible implications for Dutch banks and their balance sheet composition. There's really big pressure on banks. Capital requirements are rising, and so are funding costs. The risk is priced because we say that we need to have a larger buffer on the balance sheet in order to bear the risk. The second way the risk is priced is the bail-in. The market will examine whether it is being applied. That is why it is so important that the supervisors and the European Commission from DG Comp should be very strict on the fact that the bail-in is actually being implemented in every case that is now coming along, whether in Portugal or in Austria or wherever the next one occurs. If we get shaky about that, the markets will think: let's see if that's going to happen. This is extremely important, otherwise we will never succeed in pushing back those risks and having the preventive effect Mrs Prast is referring to. After all, we want the sector to price it, to discount the risks in advance and to adapt its behaviour accordingly. That's the approach I want to take. In doing so, I have also answered Mr Postma's question as to whether the fund has been rigged enough to be effective. The fund is under construction. If we had a major crisis today, the fund would be of no use to us. This year all countries are already obliged to collect the resolution levy, but it is still parked in a national account. As of next year, the countries of the Banking Union will start a joint fund. That's freshman year. They will then have to pay off two years straight away, so the money that has been collected this year and the money that will be collected in 2016. Those two years come into the fund. In eight years the fund then builds up to the target size of 55 billion. So in the beginning, that fund is not yet at full power. That is why we have chosen this system, where we have to keep two very different terms, namely public bridge funding and public back-up. Let me explain. There is a phase in which the fund is building up and is not yet full. If the fund is to be drawn, someone must advance that money. This is therefore public bridge funding, which is a bridge over the eight-year period. There are two possibilities for this. One is that in principle the fund itself can develop a credit line to the market, on the basis that it knows that there is a legal basis to raise 55 billion in the coming years. Of course, that gives the fund some credibility to borrow and to finance for itself. That's one way. The other way that security is always there is that in those eight years the national Member States must guarantee sufficient money in their compartment. After eight years, those compartments are gone, then we have a shared fund, but those first eight years, when the fund is gradually filled, we still have national compartments. This means that bridge financing must be provided by a country. They're picking it up at the banks again. It's just pre-financing; a loan to the fund from the country. If the country itself is in a weak financial position, the ESM can be used by the usual means. Something else is the discussion about public backup. This means that even if the fund is fully full, EUR 55 billion could not be enough in the event of a major systemic crisis. I am very sceptical about that. I think that the defence walls that lie before that are now so high and firm that this will not happen so quickly. If that does happen, there should be another backstop, an extra backstop on the 55 billion. There are major differences of opinion about this. How urgent is that? What would that look like? Some countries simply think that the ESM should then be the credit facility, others say that once it includes 55 billion, the fund should also be able to finance itself. We will have to resume this discussion in the coming years. The only thing we have agreed is that we will continue to make this political decision during the construction phase. I would like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that it is not tax money but a loan facility from national governments and that the banks will have to repay it. In doing so, I have also answered the question of whether 55 billion is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u18	Can the Minister guarantee that the money for public recovery can then all be collected from the banks? I can imagine that, in the event of a very serious crisis, this public deficit would have to be addressed in such a way that it could take years to recover all this from the banking sector, or that the banking sector of a particular country would not be able to bear it at all at the time, so that the taxpayer would still pay for it. Or does the Minister want to completely rule out that risk in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u19	There is nothing you can completely rule out, but I have great confidence in how we have now built the banking union, with the three buffer layers that are built in. We must realise that the balance sheets of the European banks have been greatly strengthened and that they will need to be further strengthened in the coming years, because these demands are being tightened even further in many areas while we are talking here. The Netherlands Bank has just published additional buffer requirements in the Staatscourant for the big Dutch banks. They're gonna come back on top of this, so the bank balance sheets are getting stronger and stronger. When we first said that we wanted the Netherlands to go to 4% for the leverage ratio, there was groaning and sighing, but the big banks are all moving towards it or are already over it. The bank balance sheets are getting stronger. Secondly, we must apply that bail-in consistently. The legislation on that point, the BRRD, the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive is coming to your Chamber very soon; the House of Representatives is voting on it this week as well. I hope that goes well. Then that bail-in order is also laid down in the law. Thirdly, we have the fund. So the risk that that fund will be completely exhausted and that there will have to be more money in it is much smaller anyway. Yeah, then we're gonna pick up that money from the banks the next few years. Of course, it depends on how much money it will be. That is how it will work and I will be very committed to it, not only because I have seen the disastrous effect of this kind of banking crisis on public debt and the functioning of the government and the public sector, because that account is simply turned over to the government and taxpayers, but also because I believe it has a preventive effect on the functioning of the sector. We need to get through that. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the annual tax deduction. It is true that contributions to the fund are deductible costs. The Dutch tax legislation was already in place. I should have changed the law to make it impossible for banks to deduct these costs. I've weighed that. I have said that we are not doing a punishment exercise here; if this is the type of cost, then so be it. Previous levies that banks have had to pay were also deductible, and this is also true of this. Mr Van Apeldoorn is right in saying that this is a piece of public contribution, a tax rebate on a contribution to the fund. But I wasn't going to actively change the law to make sure the banks would have to pay even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u20	In any case, I note that the Minister agrees with the SP Group that the taxpayer is co-paying to supplement the fund, for a bit as he says. That brings me back to my previous question. To what extent has the Minister considered doing things differently, even if he had had to change the law in order to do so, given that other countries have chosen to do things differently, precisely to keep the taxpayer completely out of the question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u21	European countries are really doing very different things throughout the banking union. I have been committed to making a single agreement on this at European level, but then countries say that, and the SP agrees that tax policy is national and that you do not have any European involvement in it. So we didn't manage to make one appointment on this. I regret that, but it is. Some countries have simply continued their current policies. France has amended the law in order to eliminate the possibility of deductibility. Now taxes on banks in France were always a deductible cost. I have decided that I would not actively change the law in order not to increase the levy on the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u22	On the basis of which did the Minister decide not to consider amending the law? He just indicated that France and Germany did. He's now saying that we've decided not to. But what were the main reasons for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u23	I think I just said that. By the way, I say it again, in Germany it was already not deductible, France has changed its law, in other countries it is deductible, so the playing field is very different. I am very much in favour of achieving similar agreements in tax matters; the SP is not usually in favour of this. So I tried that road, but it didn't work. My consideration of not doing so in the end is that I should have actively amended our tax legislation and should have explicitly ruled out that the costs of these companies are no longer deductible, even though they were in the past. Then it's starting to look a little like a punishment exercise. I didn't think that was desirable. That was my trade-off. On the other hand, we would probably have made a different assessment if this had always been excluded in the Netherlands. Then I wouldn't have had any reason to change it, but it's now a deductible item and it has remained. Mrs Prast raised the very interesting question of whether the fund could invest in system banks. The fund's investment policy is still being developed. This is what the Commission is going to do in what is called a 'delegated act' in Europe. I will ensure that we are informed and able to watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u24	I hope that we will be able to deal with this issue, but one of my specific questions was the amount of money involved. How much tax money is actually involved? How much does the Dutch taxpayer, unlike the French and German taxpayers, contribute to supplementing the joint resolution fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u25	The rhetoric always comes close to this kind of thing. Mr Van Apeldoorn speaks very consciously about the Dutch taxpayer's co-payment, but if we start to consider deductible costs in the future, then I still know a number of deductible costs that the taxpayer pays for, from companies, from private individuals and so on. So we allow companies to deduct costs from their taxable profits. I will control myself because of time and actually answer the question. How much is it? We do not know that, because the contribution that the banks will pay will soon be prescribed by the Single Resolution Board. On the basis of the current figures, it will calculate which bank will pay what amount. It then depends on a bank's profits or which can deduct the amount in full or in part. So I can't say. I can make a theoretical calculation, but so can Mr Van Apeldoorn. I'd like to leave that to him. I like to base myself on facts. Those facts have yet to be revealed. Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I should respond to things being called from the audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u26	I wouldn't do that if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u27	No, but the temptation is great to do so. Mrs Prast made a comment about the risk that the assets built up in the resolution fund will be reinvested in system banks. That could create a great kind of cross-risk in the event of a banking crisis. I agree with her that we should be very cautious about this or even abandon it. As I said, it has been delegated to the Commission to propose further rules and it is then up to the fund's management to do so prudently. I will keep an eye on this point, I say to Mrs Prast. Moreover, I expect that most of the funds will hopefully be invested in government bonds with the necessary care and distribution. A further question has been asked about the role of the Court of Auditors. Is there sufficient supervision? A question in advance might be: is there sufficient democratic control? I have also had this debate in the House of Representatives, including when dealing with the implementation of the banking resolution and the directive on bank rescue. When we opt for a resolution fund to be transferred to an independent institution, which we also make very specific independence, the fund works within a legal framework that we establish with each other, on the basis of this treaty and the BRRD regulation, and which is filled with private resources, we also have to accept that democratic accountability takes place in a different way. It is no longer a question of public funds coming from the Dutch budget. It is a question of private resources that are being contributed to a European fund, including by Dutch banks. The European Fund must be able to do its work independently. That is crucial, and we do not want politicians to interfere with the way in which this is handled at the moment when a bank is to be saved or not. This should be done as businesslikely as possible, on the basis of the principles of bail-in and on the basis of the least cost principle. This also means that national parliaments have a different role in the banking union than hitherto in the rescue of banks in the Netherlands. Moreover, the role of the Dutch Parliament in the rescue of banks has been part of a parliamentary survey. Afterwards there was also something to note. What happens if a large bank has to be saved in the Netherlands? This will now be done by the joint resolution board. That's what he's gonna do. The board ensures that the rules are followed. It is not a question of setting up the fund immediately. First of all, we are considering whether the bank should be saved. Perhaps the balance can be strengthened with restructuring. Parts may be sold or disposed of. It will be checked whether the bail-in has been fully applied. Better formulated: the resolution board will apply that bail-in to investors and capital providers. In the extreme case, the resolution board can use the fund for certain parts of the operation. This is being held accountable afterwards and not in advance, not even in confidential briefings, as was customary in the Netherlands, in which the Minister of Finance informed the permanent Chamber of Finance confidentially in the sense of: we are saving a bank. It won't be like this anymore. It is done by the resolution board, with ex post responsibility, partly to the European Commission. The European Commission also has an independent role in monitoring competition rules............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The European Court of Auditors has similar powers to those in the Netherlands, with one distinction, but that is something that we have only recently regulated for the General Court of Auditors in the Netherlands. Recently, the General Court of Auditors has been allowed to walk into the Dutch supervisory authority and look at supervisory confidential files. Of course, this will be handled prudently, but this is necessary, so that the Court of Auditors can form an idea of how effective the Dutch supervisor is in the supervision of banks. This far-reaching power, namely that we can look into the supervisory confidential files and see what has happened, has not yet been settled for the European Court of Auditors. That's still the subject of conversation. We are going to discuss with the General Court, the European Court of Auditors and the Commission how we can move this forward. As has been said, it was never allowed in the Netherlands until recently we have settled it neatly in the law. The Netherlands is therefore at the forefront of this. Mr Van Apeldoorn has asked, if you look at everything, whether the too-big-to-fail problem has been solved. He'd like to hear a yes or no. There's one more building block that hasn't been executed. That's Liikanen's report. That's about separating within a bank or pulling apart outside the bank of business and utility activities. The negotiations are still taking place in Brussels, in the Council and in Parliament. Parliament still has to take a position on it. It's about the Banking Structural Reform Regulation. I will ensure that the Chamber is regularly informed of the progress made. Moreover, the Netherlands is broadly satisfied with the Commission's proposals on this point. We believe that further separation of activities will further improve stability in the sector. Mrs Prast asked another question about pension funds. How likely is it that the Dutch government will allow pension funds to bleed as well if a large bank falls over? I'd like to reverse the order. Pension funds are adult investment funds. They must be able to include these risks in their investment policy. The risks in banks are getting a price these days. There is a bail-in applicable. I believe that the pension funds themselves should be aware of this and consider to what extent and in what form they still want to invest in which banks. Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn asked a question about the creation of large banks. This discussion is now one of the favourite topics in the Lower House. I believe that four motions have already been tabled. Mr Van Apeldoorn referred to a motion which had not been adopted. I know of three motions that have been adopted and today probably the fourth has been adopted on this subject. They all ask for the same thing: do what is possible to prevent the emergence of new megabanks, banks that are too large by their scale, even now that we have a banking union with a European fund and so on. Don't let those banks come into being. I think that's wise. Moreover, I believe that the ECB, which already has the supervision of large banks, has the potential to do so. The ECB simply needs to review mergers and acquisitions of large banks and to take financial stability into account. However, it is not formally regulated. I think it would be a good idea to clarify that. The same applies to the resolution authority. I think she should be given the same authority. After all, if two large banks merge into a megabank, there can be great risks for resolvability, the resolution of such a bank if it goes wrong. I believe that the resolution authority should be able to look into this in advance; it should be able to assess whether it is still possible and whether these risks can be managed at all. If not, we shouldn't want it. Mr Van Apeldoorn goes a lot further. He says, "There's just got to be a merger ban." I have indeed pointed out that this should at least have a legal basis which is not yet available. I also think you should motivate it well, because not every banking merger is a bad banking merger. There have also been bank mergers in the past that have been successful. In fact, small banks that got into trouble were taken over by other banks and saved in that way. The sector itself has therefore saved smaller banks and thereby secured the savers. I am not responsible for mergers, but I would be against seeing a new wave of large banks in Europe in the coming years. That is a debate I am having in Europe. I have already discussed this with the European Commission on several occasions. The official name is different in the Antonveneta Directive............................................................................................................................................................................. The SP doesn't go far enough either. She says: there must be a ban on mergers. But the SP does not really need that, because Mr Van Apeldoorn has also said that he simply wants to nationalise all banks. Then you don't need an instrument like the merger ban anymore. The banks will then be our own, and then we can fight it all. That's not what I'm here for. In fact, I believe that financial institutions can be private institutions, but within a good market organisation, and we hope to bring them in today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u28	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u29	Madam President. A lot's come over the table. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that the Minister and I agree that the range of risk weighting is limited. We are in an EU framework and we have to deal with it. I am also very pleased that the Minister has promised that he will pay attention to the investments of the fund. He did not answer my question as to whether it would be nice to keep the fund with the ECB. I will continue to do so, but it seems to me to be safer; it makes the fund less susceptible to political interference and thereby increases credibility. A number of other points. The Minister has mentioned the term "penalty exercise" a few times. I think that's a very peculiar term when you try to cut the costs to the person who's the cause of the misery. If I go into a store and I buy a ring, it's gonna cost me. That's a price in exchange for that ring. If I rob a jewelry store and I get caught, I get a fine. Those are two different things, and in my view what we are doing here with this fund, people, banks, is making institutions pay for something they get in return, namely that if it is wrong they will also be settled out of that fund. The Minister also used the metaphors of the cart and of the structure. He says that we now have this capital requirement in place, that it is actually enough; that fund is a kind of bonus to discourage risk taking and to promote credibility. He mentions figures from 2012. We've been three years. Time will tell. These are the most recent figures available. I sincerely hope that the Minister will be right and that the implicit government subsidy to the banks will be reduced and perhaps even disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u30	I would like to put a question to Mrs Prast. It is easy to always look at the risk side in these kinds of issues, but how would her group fill in matters like adequate buffers or an adequate fund as backup? Otherwise, we will unwittingly find ourselves in the situation where we as a parliament say 'it is never enough', without giving ourselves the desired size.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u31	My comments and questions have not been about the size of the fund, but about the fairness of the contribution and thus the credibility of the fund. I'm more concerned with risk weighting. That the fund might be too small, that may be. This will then be resolved with contributions from the banks afterwards. This has given me the impression that the polluter would not pay for it, because it is being settled, but perhaps it is not. That would seem like an undesirable situation to me. I come to the metaphors of the structure and the cart. In a building and in a cart, all parts have to do it. The power of the whole is in his weakest link. I'd like to make that point. And again, I had hoped that the answer would be: "capital requirements ensure that banks have so little room for manoeuvre to take risks, that one will never take much more risk than the other', but apparently that is not the case. It has been noted that the people who continue to say that the bail-in is not credible, because look how big that implicit subsidy is, make sure that investors do not find it credible. I think that's a huge understatement of the investor's smartness, but again, time will tell. Actually, I think I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u32	Mr. Chairman. That was a nice first acquaintance with the Minister. Perhaps I can also learn some of his rhetoric: punishment practice, construction, cart; these are all interesting terms. I thank the Minister for answering our questions. However, I still have a number of points that I would like to come back to. First of all, the issue of taxpayers who contribute to supplementing the fund, on which I have also committed a number of interruptions. The Minister calls that rhetoric. Those are his words. I would rather say that it is a matter of exposing a certain factuality, which has previously been given little attention. In any case, I am pleased that the Minister has admitted that, regardless of what words one chooses, the taxpayer is in this way co-paying to the fund. If the minister had changed the law to make sure that didn't happen, it would have been a punishment exercise for the banks. I find that a curious choice of words. Is it now a punishment exercise for Dutch taxpayers? I would also like to return to the unanswered question raised by the SP Group as to what amount it would be. The Minister does not seem to have the information to give an assessment. I understand that it depends on the actual taxes of the banks involved. The Minister previously gave an estimate, including in the Lower House, of the total amount of the contribution per year of the Dutch banking sector to the resolution fund? On that basis, surely you should be able to estimate how much million will actually be involved? I would ask the Minister to go through this theoretical exercise with us, because for the SP Group this remains an important point. The same applies to the public backstop. In his reply, the Minister makes it very clear that he has a great deal of confidence in the system, in the discipline of all the measures that have been taken: strengthening the capital position of the banks, the minimum bail-in capital, etc., and so on, with the resolution fund as a final step. In the eyes of the SP Group, this is about increasing the dikes, while we ultimately need a delta plan to really prevent a new financial crisis. As a SP Group, we continue to worry about the size of the financial sector and too big to fail banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u33	This might be a good time to discuss dikes and delta plans. Is the SP against raising dikes when the water rises?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u34	No, we are absolutely in favour of increasing dikes when the water rises. We are also in favour of the bail-in instrument. We have made that clear before. We would like that bail-in to go even further, not to be limited to 8%. We have also supported all these measures. However, we are not in favour of saving each other's banks in this way, as it is now designed with the resolution fund, where ultimately the Dutch taxpayer and the European taxpayer are not left out, while we believe that better solutions are conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u35	Doesn't the SP run the risk of becoming the enemy of good in her eyes? Doesn't she actually say: we don't want a resolution fund, so we just pay it public again? Does she not say: at a time when the bail-in is not a relief, are we, as a SP, prepared to explain that to the citizens too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u36	I believe that Mr Postema also knows that we are in favour of a resolution fund, but not of a European resolution fund that will eventually be mutualised. That is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u37	Finally, Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u38	Does the SP then want to fight this international capitalism all the way to the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u39	It is not about fighting international capitalism up to the border. We will also fight international capitalism across borders or at least want to reform it. The point is that this resolution fund will ultimately not remove the risks of an unstable financial system that we are dealing with. We believe that there are better solutions for this. I would like to continue my speech, but I see that Mr Knapen also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u40	What intrigues me when it is said that we do not want to see a European mutualisation fund is the following. We have a relatively large banking sector for our country. It has not been recalled here today, but the fact is that when you compare it with a number of other countries, we have a disproportionate advantage in Europeanising the risks compared to countries with a relatively smaller banking sector. I wonder whether Mr Van Apeldoorn has taken that into account in his consideration of actually building that dike around the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u41	Again, in response to Mr Knapen...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u42	Through the chairman, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u43	Mr President, I apologize. The SP Group is not concerned with the construction of a dike around the Netherlands. The point is that in the Netherlands and, where appropriate, at European level, the problems I have outlined are the problems of a banking sector which has become too large and is no longer serving society, where taxpayers have to pay for private losses, while profits have remained private at that time are effectively dealt with. This may be conceivable with a joint resolution fund, but better solutions are conceivable in the eyes of the SP Group. In this context, I would like to draw attention to a report by the OECD which was published last month, which demonstrates the extent to which the financial sector has become unhealthy. The Minister has undoubtedly also taken note of this report. The OECD shows that an oversized financial sector with too large banks is bad for economic growth, which makes the real economy much more sensitive to crises and thus increases citizens' insecurity and also economic inequality. The SP Group wonders whether the Minister agrees with the OECD conclusions. He said in his first reply that this was further discussed at European level. He referred to the Antonveneta Directive and to what might be the last part of the structure, namely the separation of utility banks. If I have listened to him correctly, he has made a commitment to continue to do so. We are pleased to see that. We also note, however, that this is not the case with today's construction. That's why we're worried. Mr Knapen refers to the large banking sector in the Netherlands. That is correct, and that is also a problem. The solution is not to mutate that and then share the risks with other European countries. As far as we are concerned, the solution is to thoroughly reform the Dutch banking sector. We currently have two state-owned banks in the Netherlands in government hands. Minister Dijsselbloem knows that the Dutch government and the taxpayer cost a lot of money. Instead of selling these banks again for half or less of that money, we could turn them into utility banks. It is already too late for ABN AMRO, because the decision has already been taken. That leaves SNS Reaal. That would certainly offer good opportunities. The Minister will probably point out to us that this is contrary to the current European rules on state aid. He will understand that these rules are not a sacred house for us and that we would not necessarily sacrifice the public interest on the altar of European rules and free competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u44	Do you keep an eye on your time, Mr Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u45	Yeah, I'm watching time. I had some interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u46	I stopped the timing of the interruptions, I must tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u47	Mr President, thank you for pointing this out to me. It's my first time, so I have to learn. I get it. I'm closing up. I thank the Minister for answering the questions, but I hope he can come back to these points again. I would like to return briefly to bail-in, also in response to what the Minister said in reply to Mrs Prast's question as to whether the bail-in is effective enough. The Minister doesn't really want to talk about it. He refers to the past and says: in all these cases 8% would have been enough. However, the Minister also knows that, particularly in the financial world, past successes do not guarantee the future. There are always black swans in the financial world, more than our models make us believe. We must be prepared for that. My question to the Minister is whether the bail-in would have been fully realised in those cases of the past. Perhaps 8% was enough, but could it have been implemented in practice? The confidence the Minister has in this whole structure and not just in the cart, does not share the SP Group. I apologize for passing over time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u48	I understand the Minister of Finance can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can start by sharing my disappointment with you. In the initial phase of the discussion on the Banking Union, the SP was an ally. Why? Because the SP said that the taxpayer must stop paying the bill; we must give the sector much more responsibility for the risks, thereby reducing the risks. Finally, a bail-in must always take place at a bank rally. The SP was one of the first to argue for this. My disappointment began after the rescue of the banking sector in Cyprus. It was accompanied by a deep bail-in. What group called me extremely critically to order in the House of Representatives? The SP. It was a disgrace. Here he is a bit of a crux. You can't chop wood without chips. You're gonna have to do this in broad company if you want to push this through. This starts with the group involved in the Banking Union, but on a number of points, in particular with regard to the formulation of capital requirements for international systemically relevant institutions, you have to do so in the context of the G20. That's exactly what we're doing right now. It would be so nice if the SP would also say: those points, those steps forward have been realized. Still, you can ask critical questions. Is it substantial enough? Is it hard enough? But if, at the end of his speech, Mr Van Apeldoorn says: nice, that bail-in, but if it had ever been applied, then I say: we will never get there. You're gonna have to take a step. You build a banking union, you build capital requirements, you make it as solid as possible, you put that into law, you put a supervisor on it, and you apply it. We just have to do that. That also requires once saying yes: yes, this is okay. For me, the SP does not have to vote in favour of this treaty, that is not my point. But it would be nice if the SP, who was one of the first to point out the fundamental importance of the bail-in, would now also say that that is good. The structure we are building here goes far beyond what we have ever done, and it goes further than in other regions of the world. Do not let everything that has been conceived in Europe be immediately contaminated and evil. Keep thinking about that, even if you are not in favour of European cooperation. However, the SP has a fundamentally different view of the banking union: it wants to radically split the banks and make the utility part into public companies. That's okay, because then you won't have a lot of other problems anymore. So I have to respect that; I look at that differently. According to the SP, only dikes are raised, without anything being done about the fundamental problem. I strongly disagree with the SP. There's a risk weighting in the buffer requirements. Banks will soon receive specific requirements regarding loss-bearing capacity: as you have more risks on your balance sheet, you will need a larger set of capital instruments on your balance sheet that will enable those risks to be borne. This is the way we push down the water level. We're not just raising the dikes. If we only set up a fund, we would. But we're also reducing risks, and we're getting them a prize. If they occur, that price is paid by investors, the owners of the bank, the providers of capital. That's how it's supposed to work. Then it also has a preventive effect in making the sector healthy. At least that's how I look at it. The SP asked another question about a theoretical calculation: what would the banks contribute over the whole period of building up the 55 billion? If they could subtract everything, what amount would it be? That amounts to 25% of the Dutch banks' contribution, which I believe is 5% of the 55 billion. But now I'm being rude and out of my mind. That is about the direction Mr Van Apeldoorn can think of. Mr Van Apeldoorn also mentioned an OECD report. I'm gonna order that right now. He didn't mention a title, but I'll find out. Apparently it's about the too-big-to-fail problem, which wouldn't have been addressed yet. In the United Kingdom legislation has been adopted on this point. We are now finalising the European regulations on this point. Perhaps Mr Van Apeldoorn can see what comes out of it before he has a final judgment on this point. But once again, if the SP believes that all banks should be radically split, then I do not think that will be the outcome of our discussion in Brussels. I do not know whether I can satisfy Mr Van Apeldoorn. Ms Prast asked whether the fund should not be held at or managed by the ECB. I would be very opposed to any mix of the banking supervisory task and the resolution task. That fund should simply be invested by sensible investors. The ESM also has experience with this. Other bodies can be involved. But the ECB has a very different task now. Mrs. Prast spoke of a "penalty exercise." Each chooses his own words. What we're doing here isn't about tax legislation. We are laying down new legislation on the financial sector. Mrs Prast says that Dutch tax legislation means that banks can deduct part of those costs. So I would have had to amend the tax legislation further in order to close the gap so that the banks would pay even more. You can weigh politically if you like. I think it is right that banks should be allowed to deduct costs before paying taxes. This is part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u50	The word "penalty exercise" was also used in response to the statement that, when the fund is full, banks no longer have to pay. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u51	I don't remember. Sometimes you have that: then you have a word in you that you're going to use too much. My reasoning there would be that once the target size is reached, there is no need for banks to continue paying. Unless the fund is used, it will have to be replenished. Mrs Prast mentioned the most recent figures from 2012. That's true in itself. But the point is that the new mechanisms, the new capital requirements and the new bail-in regime have developed tremendously after 2012. When it comes to the question of what is the subsidy advantage on the too-big-to-fail banks, the figures for 2012 are by definition obsolete. Unless we really think that everything we've done has no effect on that. That would be very disappointing. Mrs Prast hopes that I would have said that the capital requirements are so well structured that risks are reduced and/or priced. I'm gonna quote her freely. That's exactly what I've been trying to argue. If we simply put an incentive into the fund's tax base, that would be far too little. But it's in the buffer, in the capital requirements and in all kinds of supervisory requirements. In this way, we ensure that risky banks are simply addressed and residual risks are priced, including in the tax base. I'm gonna close with the theoretical math. It's worth 4.5 billion in nine years. The contribution is about half a billion a year, 25% of which is deductible at the maximum; that is 125 million a year. This would of course be lower in the case of lower profits, but once again, the deductibility of costs is allowed in our tax system. In general, we do not regard this as a subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-eerstekamer-7.u52	This brings us to the finalisation of the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose to vote directly on the bill, but I am waiting for as many members of the Chamber as possible to join us.
