ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. This is a 30-member debate. That means that each group has three minutes' speaking time. I will allow interruptions in two at most: a question and, if necessary, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u2	Madam President. The year by year relatively unfavourable purchasing power for older people continues, also according to the most recent CPB figures in December. After years of severe loss of purchasing power, older people again have almost the worst purchasing power development in 2015. According to the Nibud, non-working people and older people account for a relative amount, from a few euros to ten euros per month. Households with care costs, so many older people, can count on further purchasing power reductions. We believe that municipalities should quickly clarify fees, otherwise people will lose control of their finances. Is the Minister going to make a commitment to this? I'm gonna ask the Minister to take a look back in time with me. The 2013 ibo report, later updated, provided the following overall picture. The average income and wealth position of older people rose more strongly from 1990 to 2010 than that of young people: 13% to 15% purchasing power growth over the whole period. A further positive purchasing power development for older people is expected for the future. According to the report, the reduction of income support measures for older people is therefore justified. My big objection is that the ibo report is now dated. It covers the period from 1990 to 2010. Moreover, the report compares age cohorts and not birth cohorts. 65- to 70-year-olds in 1990 are compared with 60- to 70-year-olds in 2010, but they are not the same people. If we compare birth cohorts on the basis of publicly accessible CBS data, i.e. 65- to 70-year-olds in 2003 with 75- to 80-year-olds in 2013, we have a table that I will be handing over to you as President over the entire period, which does not result in a positive, but rather negative, purchasing power development for pensioners, ranging from -4% to -19%. This image was recently confirmed by emeritus professor Bernard van Prague in the Volkskrant. We ask the Minister to update purchasing power of older people on the basis of birth cohorts, in particular over the period from 2003 to 2013. Is the Minister also prepared to explore the added value of monitoring purchasing power development on the basis of birth cohorts in the long term? On 10 March a study on purchasing power of Tilburg University will be published, commissioned by the scientific bureau of 50PLUS. The first figures I have seen show that our concern is very justified. I'll give you those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Law on the Unification of Wage Concept, the increase in the AOW age, the abolition of the partner allowance, the application of the middle wage scheme, the non-indexation of pensions, a reduction in the elderly's discount and the household allowance; and on top of that, even higher care costs by increasing the own risk and health insurance contributions and increasing the own contribution as well as limiting the supplement. If someone is a tenant, then there is also the rent increase. My question to the Minister is: what does this minister have against the elderly? When will it be enough? All kinds of bodies, for example the Central Economic Plan, but also the Cordelia confirm that older people and pensioners have been lagging behind in purchasing power for years, and that this will also be the case for 2015. This week's Nibud figures show that older people are turning in this year too, in hard purchasing power. The rack's out. Older people feel pushed aside and declared redundant by this cabinet. The dream of Drees that old age and poverty never go hand in hand again has now become obsolete. If we carry on like this, it'll be the future perspective again. We also see it in the poverty signature that has recently appeared. There is a relatively strong increase in the number of people over 65 living in poverty; a doubling. The same applies to the number of people over 65 with problematic debts; this has doubled. There's thousands of them. Does the Minister recognise the structural and multiannual lag in the purchasing power of older people? What did old people do to deserve that? Why these political choices? They're choices. In addition to all kinds of cuts I mentioned earlier, it is not indexing or shortening pensions one of the causes, as the cabinet recognises, of lagging behind in the purchasing power of older people. In the last paragraph of his letter, the Minister speculates on the recovery of pensions through the catching-up index. The question is at what time does the Minister think that pension funds will again be able to catch up with the new financial review framework? Is the Minister prepared, if it appears that there is no further indexation in 2015, to review the new financial review framework so that the catch-up index mentioned by the Minister can actually be reached in 2016? In short, what we see happening throughout the world, including in Europe and the Netherlands, is that capital goes to the most rich. Older people, chronically ill people, disabled people, normal people with normal incomes, unemployed people and job seekers are entitled to pay the cost of the crisis. If we continue like this, 1% will have more than 99% in the world together. In the Netherlands, the three richest families hold more than half of all Dutch people together. Austerity fetishists want to chase people over the blade, while there's enough for everyone. Does the Minister want to see that and change his policy, the political helm?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mrs Karabulut says: does the Minister want to change the rules for pension funds if there is no indexing again? Now, of course, I hope that these pension funds will be in good shape and that they will be able to index, but I understand from Mrs Karabulut's words that she believes that even if these funds remain in severe weather because, for example, interest rates continue to fall, there should still be indexing at the expense of the pensions of today's workers and young people. Is that her proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u6	The point is, there's enough money in the pension funds. By adjusting the frameworks and the discounts, the elderly become poorer while other choices can be made. The Minister speculates on that. He says that the new financial review framework will improve. If that is not the case, is the Minister prepared to examine whether the Ftk can be adapted, of course within responsible limits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u7	This review framework does indeed mean that if we get into heavy weather, we do not have to cut down as abruptly as we used to. That is why my party also supported that review framework, while your party opposed it. You say it's not so bad. But you can only spend a pension euro once. I repeat my question: do you want to spend euros, even if pension funds are not in better shape, so that there will be fewer pensions for workers and young people? Is that the SP line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u8	No, but I don't want us to be poor either. I would like to listen to the pension funds, which themselves state that they can adapt and mitigate the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u9	I share some of the concerns about people with high care costs. Many people, not only elderly people, have been affected by the crisis. I know the SP as a party that stands up for people with a small scholarship. Are older people with a small pension up to €6,000 now moving forward or backwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u10	When I look at the Nibud numbers, they go backwards. You've been able to see those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u11	But the Nibud numbers aren't all numbers. There are purchasing power plates and other figures. If you're just looking sec at AOW and a small pension, they're getting a little better in terms of purchasing power. Individually, there may be anything going on that is disappointing, but they are getting better. The AOW is indexed twice a year, resulting in an additional €255 per year for a couple.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u12	If you look at some groups and if you "sterilize" it to a certain point, maybe that's true. But if you look at a number of years, you can see that almost all the elderly, apart from exceptions, are just fat in the minus. If you look at the rent and care costs that come with that, you can see that they're even further down the line. So I'm sorry, but I can't hold up this rosy image and I can't make it up to you at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u13	This isn't a rosy picture. It's about people with AOW and a very small pension. But that particular group benefits from the tax discount, the elderly discount and the AOW indexed twice a year, which we can be proud of. I'll be honest with you, it's not much, but I'll tell you the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u14	But that is offset by all kinds of other discounts and cuts. Please take the Nibud figures and then come forward. Then do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u15	No, Mrs Vermeij, you've interrupted three times, because I was wrong. That's what we're gonna do, because actually two was the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. We just ended up in a conversation about purchasing power cards. I would like to draw attention to the purchasing power of the elderly for a few special groups, not falling into the question of whether it is a few tenths more or less. I would like to mention three specific measures that have been taken or have not been taken, which may have major consequences at individual level, but which do not receive sufficient attention. I will start with the AOW partner allowance, which will be available until March of this year for everyone entitled to AOW. If you get old enough to get AOW in April and you have a younger partner, that supplement is no longer there. This means that a single person who gets €728 will also have to support his partner. That is far below the level of assistance. His neighbor, who is single and therefore does not have to support a person, gets €1.057. This measure was agreed in 1995, i.e. 20 years ago. However, there has been insufficient attention to the entry into force of that measure. There are several people who are not aware of this. I can point out several motions in which we have asked for information to the citizens. What's done with that? What does the Minister recommend to these people if they have a sick partner and have to make a living of €728 alone and have no or a small supplementary pension? The second group I would like to draw attention to will be presented on 1 January 2016. The government has decided to abolish the elderly allowance in box 3. This means that older people always have to pay taxes if they have more than about €21,000 in the savings account. If you have €1,000 extra in the savings account and you have to pay €12 extra tax per year, that is annoying, not our choice, but falls away in the pictures. It gets annoying that you lose all your rent allowance at once if you come up with even €5. Now we know the government. He does not do that in advance, but recovers the rent payment afterwards. Are all those affected informed in good time that they will no longer be entitled to rent allowance from 1 January 2016? And what is the government going to do to make sure we don't get into these problems? I come to my third point. The AOW age is increased. My party participated in that, too. Unfortunately, however, my amendment was rejected that would give people the right to retire at the same time as the AOW. In other words, there are pension administrators who say: your pension starts at 67 years, while you retire at 65 years and 6 months. Then someone doesn't have a pension for a year and a half. It makes sense to us: pull it together. Is the Minister prepared to look at that again; to give people the opportunity to retire on the first day they get AOW?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. Rutte II is a failed cabinet after all. The crisis has long been over in most countries, but the Netherlands is still stuck in the crisis. We just heard from the PvdA again. The "crisis" is not going to happen anymore, because it is now the cabinet itself that is prolonging the crisis. Unemployment continues to rise, asylum seekers flood our country and the hard-working citizens see the burden increase. This cabinet, with all these tax increases, makes sure that the citizens no longer have any money in their pockets. Today we are again talking about the purchasing power of the elderly, the people who have built the Netherlands, the people who have built 1,100 billion pension assets. Firstly, these elderly people, of course, deserve our respect and the cabinet should not treat them as dairy cows. However, these older people are also a growing group of consumers. If that money can be spent, it can create jobs. The Netherlands' quacking economy is mainly caused by declining purchasing power. This cabinet continues to raise taxes, making the Netherlands perform so badly internationally. The excise duties are going up. We had another debate on this this morning. It only costs money and jobs. The cabinet has increased the rents enormously, the care costs increase and the housing market is still on its way through government policy, while many people also see their own home as an apple for thirst and a kind of pension. This cabinet has blinkers on it. Nothing but public finances seems to be important. The citizen's wallet is not important to this cabinet. That is where the fault of this cabinet lies. All these tax increases and all these reductions in pensions lead, in addition to poorer citizens, to a deteriorating economy and high unemployment. Rutte II has destroyed the prosperity of the Netherlands. This cabinet will also go down in history: the cabinet that made the mistake of taxing the Netherlands and prolonging the crisis of the Netherlands unnecessarily. In addition to all that unnecessary unemployment and in addition to all that falling purchasing power for working Netherlands, our older people pay the highest price. That's outrageous and stupid. In 2013, the purchasing power of older people fell by as much as 3%. According to CBS, that was the fourth fall in purchasing power in a row. The elderly have been disproportionately caught in the wallet and in the coming years this misery will only increase for them. In October, the two largest pension funds, ABP and Zorg en Welzijn, announced that the loss of purchasing power for pensioners will continue to increase over the next ten years. The even stricter rules are the reason for this, which means that the funds have to maintain even higher financial buffers. So that's on top of the 1,100 billion that's already there. Today's probably gonna turn on the money presses. What's that gonna mean for that 1,100 billion pension assets? Why is the AOW age being raised so scandalously quickly, when unemployment among older people is rising and young people are standing aside for years? Stupid, stupid, stupid. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet again to stop raising that AOW age. I ask the cabinet to restore purchasing power for all Dutch people, but also for our elderly people, and to reverse all these harmful tax increases. This cabinet has two months left, because 18 March there are elections. Then the citizen will deal with this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. Everyone in this country has noticed the consequences of the crisis, whether it was a youngster who came from school and didn't find a job, a worker who got fired or azzp'er whose assignments ran down. The elderly, whose pension index was left behind, also noticed. The indexing of workers is also lagging behind, but they do not yet notice this in their wallets, as older people notice. The economy attracts again carefully, very carefully. We learned today that you have to be very careful with that. It is precisely now that we must do everything we can to assist, assist and support those for whom things do not go by themselves. There's a lot of pictures in circulation. Mr Krol had pictures, the Nibud gave figures and also the CPB and the CBS have pictures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u19	I don't want to steal the pictures because they speak for themselves. People feel what they feel and brand in their wallet what they notice. However, I would like to hear from Mrs Vermeij that it is political choices that this cabinet, including the Labour Party, makes. It is a political choice to set the bill for all those groups that Mrs Vermeij calls, whether it is the elderly discount, the AOW partner bonus, not indexing or the higher costs of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u20	They are not all political choices, because the indexation of pensions is not determined here in this house. Mrs Karabulut knows very well. That goes by pension fund and I am glad that some funds are better off and others are getting out of the crisis. Yeah, it's a choice to increase the old-age discount. Yes, it is also a choice to increase the general tax discount. Yes, it's a choice to index the AOW twice a year and thus make it wider for people with a small pension. And yes, it is a choice to spare elderly people who have care and nursing at home. Yet many people feel the crisis. But with those choices we try to divide the pain fairly and without those choices it would have been much less good. That's how we scribble out of the crisis and make this country better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u21	There's 50 billion in savings. It takes year after year from the large group of older people who have helped to build our country. That's what I call it. That's a political choice. Of course, the Labour Party is doing some cosmetic things to make it less bad, to be able to take some of the hits and tell this story to the outside world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u22	What's your question? You need to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u23	It would be a credit to Mrs Vermeij if she acknowledged that the big picture was indeed the direct result of Rutte/Asscher's cabinet policy. Does Mrs. Vermeij recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u24	"The big picture," says Mrs Karabulut. We have just found that every purchasing power picture is a different picture. Every conversation I have gives a different story. I have daily conversations with people who send me letters. For some, the crisis is very difficult. They include young people and older people. But we are doing everything we can to spare those who have only AOW and a small pension. I think we can do that. It took cuts to get out all of us, including on the highest incomes. That was also the case. This is how we make this country better, we are working on a stronger economy and better pension funds, so that in the end there will be more purchasing power for older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u25	The Labour Party only talks about "the crisis." I wonder whether Mrs Vermeij can see that it is precisely the cabinet policy that prolongs this crisis for the Netherlands. Other countries often do much better or are now out of the crisis. But the Netherlands has to do with loss of purchasing power due to government policy and all these tax increases, such as VAT, excise duties and so on. Do Mrs Vermeij and the PvdA see that all these tax increases have led to and caused unemployment and the crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u26	I'm a historian, so we're gonna do a little history. The crisis has not been caused by any policy, but by a global financial crisis and a number of large financial institutions that have made things rather sharp. This has had consequences for this country, but we are one of the first European countries to do so. If we want to look at the income picture of older people and compare it with that in other countries, then the Germans and the French are jealous of us and let us not talk about the Italians at all. We're just doing better here. You gonna be okay? No, it's not good enough. Are people still in pain? Yeah, people are still in pain, but we're taking cautious steps. It is precisely for those with only AOW and a small pension that this cabinet takes a number of measures that Mr Madlener must address, which alleviates the suffering and sometimes allows a small minus, but also sometimes a very small plus. 10% of the elderly only have AOW. This benefit is indexed twice a year. That's $255 per year. You gonna be okay? Probably not in all those households, but it's a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u27	I feel like I'm talking to someone who lives in a different country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u28	That's really not true. I can't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u29	When I look around and talk to the elderly, it's about these huge rent increases and the increase in excise duty and VAT. Everyone feels their purchasing power falling and everyone sees the skyrocketing unemployment. That's un-Dutch. Those are record figures, because of this cabinet. Mrs Vermeij says it's because of the crisis and not because of cabinet policy. I find it shocking, however, that the Labour Party, as a government party, does not take any responsibility whatsoever for the current crisis. That is also reflected in this negative answer. I'm asking the PvdA to speak to people again. I believe that the party board has said: go into the country. I recommend that too, because apparently she's become completely alien to the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u30	It is complicated to discuss taking responsibility with a member of the PVV, because she has run away at a very difficult time. This responsibility has been assumed by the PvdA, which Mr Madlener cannot deny. This responsibility also lies in ensuring that the elderly discount goes up for people with a small pension, so that people have a little more left, if they only have AOW and a small pension. That's fair sharing. People with more income also pay more in this country. That is also cabinet policy, and these are also political choices. I talk to people every day. I'll invite them, too. You don't just have to go out on the street, 'cause they're gonna come here. Those stories are different. That's why purchasing power cards don't say everything. Some have it even worse and some have it better than in those purchasing power cards. We all know that the group of older people is very diverse. There is a large group with only AOW, but we also know that there is a group of older people who have made a lot of money through work and enjoy it to the full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u32	I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u33	Then Mrs Karabulut has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mrs Vermeij mentioned that a group of older people would receive €250. I've got Nibud's numbers right here. If they're wrong, she should be at the Nibud. I see that single elderly people with AOW are improving €2. Then you don't get that $250. Single elderly people with €2,500, a small pension, are also making some progress, but the rest is fat in the minus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u35	I'm talking about the indexing of the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u36	This is about purchasing power, so what people have left, Mrs Vermeij, with all the cabinet measures. What are you talking about? Or are you denying this story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u37	I do not deny it, but the Nibud also says very clearly in the same press release that this picture does not apply to all households. This is a picture in which the rent increases and the care costs are included, but not all care costs. Once again, the abolition of the AWBZ contribution. Neither do assets. They're not in there. I don't want to have such a technical debate. The CPB images are correct, the indexing of the AOW is correct and the generic figures of the Nibud are correct, Mrs Karabulut agrees with me, but they are all three different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u38	The fact is that older people have been in trouble for five years and this year, too, they have just returned money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u39	The fact is that a lot of elderly people are in a bad way, but not all older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. For D66, it's about everyone's purchasing power. Older people are a special group, especially at a time when many pension funds have not been able to index or even have had to shorten. But in general, we see that the effects of the crisis have affected everyone and that the government, which has to put things in order in the budget, must take measures that everyone feels in the wallet. I am not talking about people who have lost their jobs or who have lost a lot of their assignments as azzp'er, because for them too, purchasing power has developed differently and is much more negative than the pictures show. I have a number of specific questions for the Minister. The purchasing power figures for older people include the fact that pensions are sometimes reduced. This also leads to fewer pension arrangements for workers. However, because this money is still in cash with the funds, you do not see that in the purchasing power picture. Can the Minister indicate the order of magnitude so that we can compare the figures for those who are retired and those who are still working better? I note, however, that with the new review framework, the risk of abrupt reductions is suddenly reduced, as pension funds are allowed to spread their measures over several years. That sounds like pure profit to me. Of course, not only do you have to talk about purchasing power, but you also have to do something about it politically. My group has done so by seeking a balanced purchasing power picture. In doing so, I am not talking about the EUR 1.5 billion reduction in the 2015 budget, which is why most groups are making progress. A group is particularly improving. Those are single parents with an income around the minimum wage. They're getting close to 10%. Work pays, the cabinet writes. At least working doesn't cost any more money. The Minister writes in response to questions from Mr Van Klaveren that the poverty trap for single parents in the welfare services that find a job has now been resolved. I find that very optimistic, if it has been realized by now that a welfare mother who is going to work four days a week is improving 1%. On the contrary, I think it is a huge gain that she does not just lose money on it. My group has also fully supported the law in question, but there is still a great deal of work to be done if someone improves one ten a month if he goes to work 32 hours. Does the Minister agree with me that we still have a whole world to win there? In general terms, of course, it remains extremely regrettable that tax reform is likely to be postponed. This tax reform must ensure that work pays more, that more people get to work, so that we can really improve purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested a year ago. It was removed from the agenda yesterday and it was put back on in a special way. In the meantime, we have talked about purchasing power more often. Others have already pointed this out. I like to stick to the actuality. Yesterday the Nibud came up with new figures and in fact it confirms what we have already seen in the Millions' Note and in the so-called Pay slip letter from the Cabinet just before Christmas, namely that the pay slips look mostly positive. We think that's good news. It has been different, but we also had a very different debate here. It's been a difficult time and it's still a difficult time. It's not a big deal for anyone, and you also see loves in purchasing power. My group believes that the cabinet is trying to distribute evenly, including among older people. For example, you can see that the AOW is indexed, but the child benefit is not. So something is being done for the elderly to make this balanced. What the VVD also thinks is important about purchasing power, and it has succeeded in doing so, is that the workers show positive results. It's not a big deal, but the people who work are getting better. Finally, I would like to make a comparative assessment of purchasing power. Because it doesn't say everything. Self-employed people are often not in it, promotion and dismissal are not in it, nor does it play a role in getting a relationship or getting a divorce. Those are actually the factors that determine your purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr Mulder spoke of a balanced policy. In the Nibud figures there are two groups of fat in the minus: the workers and the elderly. Some of the workers end up with little left because of all the austerity measures. What does Mr Mulder think is right about this? I would like to mention just a few measures: raising the AOW age, cutting the AOW rate, cutting the overall income support for older people and applying middle-wage schemes that generate lower pensions. I can go on for a while. These are all measures that will make money available to the elderly. This money doesn't end up with the group that really needs it. This money simply disappears, via the Netherlands to Europe and often to big business. How can the VVD find this balanced and just?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u43	What Mrs Karabulut may not know is that we have had a crisis, just a crisis. This means that share prices fall together and pensions cannot be indexed. We're in there. There haven't been any big pluses to distribute in recent years, still not now. Given that there is a crisis, we are trying to do something about it. That is why we are proposing the indexation of the AOW to make it a little more balanced. Let us be honest: it was a crisis and then you should not expect it to be a fat trap. Unless you say: what do I care about this crisis or public finances? Some of the parties here want it to go so far and let everything go, because it doesn't matter. You've got to get public finances in order. You have to cut back on that, and it costs money. This is what you notice in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u44	Yeah, it costs money. The crisis has indeed not been a natural phenomenon. The crisis was caused by neoliberal policy, because bankers and big business were allowed to go their way, including the VVD. There'll be an account. Why does the VVD refuse to introduce a millionaire tax?Millionaires have had a good time over the past few years, and does the VVD agree to the massive cuts and packing of our elders, regardless of their income?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u45	The crisis arose in America when the government began to guarantee mortgages. I don't know if that's liberal. I think that's government intervention, which has led the mortgage market in America to grow endlessly. This has nothing to do with liberalism and certainly not with the word 'neoliberal', but that aside. The distribution of income in the Netherlands, coupled with a very high level of prosperity, is one of the most equal in the world, more flatter can hardly be. You can try to knock her out, but let's make it pay if people want to work. This is in response to the comment about millionaires.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u46	The VVD spokesperson again talks about the origin of the crisis in America. We are talking about a moment of eight years ago, I believe. He talks about stock prices, but I see record stock prices on the signs. What's he talking about?! Does Mr Mulder or does he not agree with all those economists who say that the current crisis in the Netherlands is mainly caused by the loss of purchasing power of consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u47	If you want to have confidence in the economy, you have to start putting public finances in order. A deficit is nothing but a deferred tax or a deferred saving. You have to give people security. When you get them in order, you can build on that. It doesn't help to do what the PVV did in the middle of the 2012 crisis: running away very fast for your responsibility. It doesn't help to make an election program after that that's just cheese, a financial hole cheese. Public finances will first have to be put in order and then economic growth will have to be ensured. We see this happening slowly. You saw the unemployment slow down, even though it was a little less in the last month. We are slowly moving in the right direction, Mr Madlener, not because of you, but despite you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u48	I don't think the CPB, which passed on our election program, will be happy about this, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u49	Hole cheese!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u50	...our election program knocked like a bus. There was no hole in it. I would just like to refer to the CPB, which seems more objective to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u51	It's still a hole cheese and the CPB has...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr Mulder, Mr Mulder, you do not have the floor!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u53	The spokesperson of the VVD does not feel responsible for the current crisis. The unemployment rate is not that bad and the Netherlands is doing well. What country does he live in? Doesn't he see all those mass firings? Doesn't he see all those consumers who don't have any money left? Doesn't he see all those excise and VAT increases? Mr Mulder calls it austerity, but they are common tax increases. Does Mr Mulder agree with me that during the elections, less than two years ago, the VVD promised tax cuts, but now together with the PvdA increased taxes? Does Mr Mulder see the damage caused by the VVD Nederland with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u54	Unemployment is, of course, far too high; my neighbor is unemployed, and that is hard to do. If you look at the Netherlands, Mr Madlener is trying to imagine it as trouble and torment in comparison with the rest of Europe, then we are doing much better than the other countries. This is due to a good policy. We are trying to get public finances in order. We prefer to do this by cutting back, but unfortunately we also have to cut back on a number of tax cuts. We're getting out of there slowly now. That is really what I am saying again, despite the PVV, because that party did avoid the record'responsibility' in the Catshuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you for your contribution. This brings to an end the first term of office. The Minister has asked for a short suspension to prepare for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u56	The Minister has indicated that he will begin with a brief introduction. I suggest you give him an opportunity to keep these before you ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. In itself, it is not at all bad that this debate should take place a year later than it was originally planned. The discussion has been going on for a long time and she's going on for a while. That's understandable. At a time when a great deal has changed, that we have experienced a huge economic crisis and that we as a government have had to take a lot of action, the discussion about purchasing power is alive and well. However, we all know the disadvantages of discussions about purchasing power. They are always about very large groups and therefore say little about the individual. It is true that some of the older people have made enormous progress since 2000, but older people have also fallen dramatically. That was pointed out by the Chamber. The best thing then is to try to actually describe what's going on, without blaming each other for all sorts of ugly things. 'Cause it's both. The interdepartmental policy research into the position of older people has been very thorough. They looked at groups as well as individuals. But also this research does not describe every individual older and certainly no people who were not old before, but who are now old. That's the trick of every discussion about purchasing power. It is clear that older people have suffered from the economic downturn in recent years, as has been the case for all Dutch people. In the elderly, this was primarily caused by what happened with pension funds. Not indexing or even shorting has cost many people a percentage of purchasing power. There are calculations showing that the cumulative difference can be as much as 15%. However, this huge blow has not felt every older or every older person in a comparable income group. After all, it depends on which pension fund one sits with. I will deal with the question of what it means for the future and for the financial review framework, but it is important to realise this. In recent years, the cabinet has had to take a series of measures to ensure that the Netherlands remains financially sound, that we recover and that there is growth capacity in the economy again. We have talked a great deal about these measures in the Chamber. It required considerable changes, but they were necessary. You can see it's working. You can see that economic growth is coming back, that public finances are coming under control and that we are managing to preserve the beautiful things of the welfare state in the Netherlands. We want to preserve the AOW, accessible care and good education not only for the present generation, but also for future generations. That appeals to many elderly people. They have built up the welfare state and they want it to continue for future generations, the generation of their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. That is only possible by making changes, and we have done so. If you look at the purchasing power development of older people, you can see that 2011 and 2012 were bad years, just like for all other Dutch people. In 2013 you see a dip, but in 2014 you see an increase in purchasing power and in 2015 the median comes to zero. That means that about half of the people are getting something better and the other half are getting a little worse. The cabinet chooses to spare the people who do not have a supplementary pension. This is done by indexing and taking all kinds of measures to promote purchasing power. And no, it is certainly not a big deal in that regard, Mr Mulder was right, but it is precisely the people with only AOW or with a small supplementary pension that have been spared. People with a larger supplementary pension have indeed been affected, but again: this is mainly due to the discounts of pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u58	Was this your introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u59	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u60	In that case, I shall give the floor to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u61	The Minister himself said: we know of course all the measures taken by the cabinet. We've talked about it in detail. I think that the concept in society might be a bit disappointing, let alone that older people agree with it. Time will tell. In this sense, the Minister for Social Affairs sometimes lives in a different reality. The Minister writes in his letter that the reductions in pensions and the associated income losses of older people can be overtaken in the future by indexing pensions. What happens if it turns out that this will not be the case this year? Is the Minister prepared to look at the framework on the basis of which it is determined whether or not a reduction is being made, or at least whether there is a relationship between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mrs Karabulut also asked that question in the first term. I'm sure I'd like to answer the question, and I'm gonna take this one, too. Of course, we hope that pension funds will be healthy and that the levels of cover will be restored, so that they can be indexed again and at least no longer need to be reduced. Whether this happens depends on the results of the pension funds. It should not be too easy to assume that all pension funds are okay with this. After all, the levels of cover are linked to the investment rates and the returns they achieve. Low interest rates are often bad news for pension funds from this perspective. Interest rates are still historically low. So you can't just assume that this will happen. You can see that the health of pension funds has increased, but guarantees are not on the table and they certainly cannot come from the government. In any case, in the new financial review framework, we have achieved one thing: the possibility of looking at expected returns and expected percentages over a number of years, unfortunately, as we have seen in recent years and which has affected many older people, the shocks are far less likely than in the past. This seems to me to be a gain for the stability of the system, for the income position of older people with supplementary pensions and for future generations who should also be able to count on a good pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u63	But now I want to get it really sharp. The Minister suggests in his letter that it was indeed painful that we were at zero and that pensions have been cut in recent years, but that this will be covered in the future. Is that the case? If it turns out that it is not the case again this year, is the Minister prepared to look into whether the financial review framework has anything to do with this and whether this may need to be adjusted? And I'm not even talking about undoing the discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u64	Whether there can be indexing and whether there can be catch-up indexing depends on the financial health of pension funds. That also makes sense, because you cannot spend money if there is not enough money left for future pensioners. The Second Chamber and the First Chamber have adopted the financial review framework very recently. All predictions, estimates and insights into pension developments have been taken into account. It would be very strange to change that now, on 22 January. That system has to last for years. People need to be able to count on that and trust for their retirement. I very much hope that the health of pension funds will be in order in the coming years, so that older people not only get their pensions, but also indexing and, where that is the issue, catching up. However, I cannot guarantee that. I come to the table presented by Mr Krol, which is partially validated by or based on Mr Van Prague's piece. There is, however, something to be desired. On the one hand, it is true that, when you look at a group, this does not say everything about the development of an individual. Contrary to what Mr Krol seemed to suggest, this was looked at in the ibo too. On the other hand, it remains relevant to compare the position of the elderly group with others, because then you see that the vulnerability is much lower. Vulnerability can be a reason for government intervention. If you then see that the risk of poverty among the elderly group is the lowest of all age groups, that says something. Mr Van Prague seems to suggest that there is a redistribution from old to young in our country. Well, then it's good to take a look at the facts. The more than 30 billion AOW per year is much earlier described as a redistribution of young to old than the other way around. That's something to be proud of in this country. After all, we want people to have a decent old age. It remains important not only to look at a purchasing power picture or a standard household to realize that individual measures have major effects on groups of Dutch. It has therefore looked carefully and independently at the development of the wealth and income position of older people. You will see that they, like all the Dutch, have been affected by the economic crisis. But the accusation that they have been disproportionately severed is not clear. I see no reason to create new purchasing power tables again. We always make these purchasing power tables the same way. That makes them more comparable, even if it's not convenient for the cabinet. Sometimes a standard household is very unfavorable to light out, but we do that for good reasons. In doing so, the Chamber is able to verify whether the proposals of the Cabinet have the expected effects on purchasing power and form an opinion on them. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about the communication about the AOW partner bonus. As far as this is concerned, 20 years ago, he is right to ask whether people are aware of this. An extensive campaign was launched in autumn 2014 to inform citizens about the forthcoming abolition. It involved advertisements in newspapers, radio spots, articles in house-to-house magazines and online resources. This campaign has also taken place every year in previous years. Every year, awareness of the abolition of the partner bonus is measured, even after this campaign. The awareness among the people who will be the first to be confronted with the abolition of the regime is that its people between 59 and 64 years of age with a younger partner are over 75%. Next, Mr Omtzigt asked what we are doing about the communication about the elderly discount box 3 2016. The aim is also here to inform the group of older people involved well in advance. At the moment, the Tax Administration is investigating how it can best reach the target group. Furthermore, Mr Omtzigt has drawn attention to the well-known phenomenon that people with 65 years of age with AOW will not see their supplementary pension until later, or exactly the other way around; Mr Omtzigt understands what I mean, it can be both. We see that it is often possible to get the supplementary pension to start earlier. Often it means that it is lower but that in itself is fair because it is actuarially neutral. I would like to stress here that it is primarily up to the social partners to agree on this. Supplementary pension is a working condition for collective bargaining partners to agree on. The cabinet believes that it is particularly important to encourage older people to continue working longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u65	In the case of pension funds, this is a matter for the social partners. Although, as far as I am concerned, this option would be logical in the Pension Act, we see, especially in insurance companies, that policies are not changed, especially when people have an old policy and are no longer with their employer. Then they just aren't adjusted and the insurance policy goes in either on January 1st of the year you become 65 or on your 67th birthday, but not when the AOW enters. I ask the government to think about that problem for one or two months and to come up with a letter on how it can be resolved. Then, in individual cases where people are forced to leave because they reach the age of AOW, the social partners have nothing to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u66	I would like to thank Mr Omtzigt for this clarification. With due regard for the expected management that fits here, because it is contracts that one concludes with private insurance companies to take out supplementary income insurance and the government cannot and cannot intervene directly, I understand Mr Omtzigt's point. I'll tell him to come back to this, but without the pretence that I can fix it. However, I would like to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u67	Thank you. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u68	I see that this is indeed outside the domain of the social partners. That is what Mr Omtzigt is right about. Mr. Chairman. Mr Krol asked for an effort to obtain rapid clarity from municipalities on specific income support. That seems very important to me; Mr Krol is right about that. We're doing our best, too. It is impossible to support all the municipalities in this. That's unnecessary, too. In consultation with the municipalities on measures relating to vulnerable target groups, it is good to realise that "the older" who may have existed at the time of the Elders' Note of 1970, a vulnerable, non-working, often ill person, is not there. This is a huge population with a large part of the active, vital, participating Dutch people. Our thinking about that group needs to be adapted to that. You can also see that the care costs of people between 65 and 75 hardly stray from those of the group underneath. In the aforementioned group they are slightly higher, but after the 75 that really increases. In all the statements we make about "the older" it fits us to realize that they are very different groups of people, rich elderly, poor elderly, sick and healthy elderly, active and no longer active elderly. In this context, I think it is particularly important for the municipality to be able to inform the vulnerable elderly about the consequences. We regularly discuss this with the congregations. As far as I have an overview of what they're doing, I'm sure they're very active in doing so. This is how it is felt in all the municipalities. D66 asked about the effects of pension reductions on workers. You can see that the effects for this group are as large as for non-working people, at least in a percentage sense, although workers have often built up even less than pensioners. That makes sense, because they're still working. The reduction does, however, fall equally among workers. That was the portal to the question. Mr Van Weyenberg also said on behalf of D66 that our argument that the poverty trap has been resolved was a little too optimistic. Something special has been achieved. For years, you knew you were a thief of your own wallet when you went to work as a single man from welfare. You really had to turn in hundreds or thousands of euros when you went to work. Following the adoption of the legislative proposals and the entry into force of the new child schemes on 1 January this year, you will make considerable progress if you start working full-time for the minimum wage. Mr Van Weyenberg is right to say that the less you work, the less you work. Then we'll get into a clamp, too. If you want to solve the poverty trap completely, then you either have to do much more on the transfer of income for the workers, so much so that somewhere up there you get a huge disadvantage if you go to work more, or lower benefits. We do not want the latter, because we want there to be a decent safety net in this country if you cannot work. So yes, the poverty trap has been solved, at least in the definition that we know here, because you are making progress on your work. But no, we're not done yet, because we also want shorter work to be rewarding faster. That's what we're still looking for, because that's where you're gonna stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u69	Here's what I'm gonna say. I think it is very good that indeed this one group of people is really the only positive exception to the single parents who work for the minimum wage. That's good, and I commend the Minister for that. But what happens to the single mother in the welfare that does work, but not enough hours? Why has this minister chosen to cut this group short on income support for children and why doesn't the Minister make the choice for a third way: broadening the additional income scheme? Then working for this group will also be rewarding. These people deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u70	We have discussed in detail the position of the single parent in the assistance. Mrs Karabulut was one of the first to question me sharply when we saw in the first calculations that this group might fall between 4.75% and 6% as a result of child schemes. It is for this reason that we have done a great deal of scraping and sanding, and we have greatly increased the child-related budget. The fact that single parents who are going to work make 10% of the increase in the number of single parents has to do with the fact that that child-related budget has been significantly increased with that headline for single parents. Because of these interventions, that single mother went from minus 4.75% to slightly above the minus 1%. That is still a decline, I admit, but a great deal has been achieved. You keep a decent paycheck for people who need it. And if a father or mother goes back to work, he or she makes a living with it. That comes next to what you do in child care to facilitate people getting back to work. All kinds of initiatives are also being taken at local level to get people back to work. I think that resolving the poverty trap in this way is a very good way to defend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u71	It would be nice if I could get an answer to my question. The Minister says that it could have been much worse and that he listened a bit. Well, fine, but as far as I'm concerned, these people should have just improved. Especially in the group of single parents who work less hours, there is hereditary poverty. These people have it the hardest. Another report has recently been published on this subject. I can do better than that. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether the additional income scheme could be extended to those groups that work less? That could be a solution for those women who are working the leplazarus, but only a little less hours. They do not really have a penny to spare and are doomed to poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u72	You also want to get rid of the dependency on a benefit. You don't want people on welfare for a longer period of time. You want people to get out. You want people to stop depending on the city to provide their assistance. This is really about the impact of the SP proposal here. I'm less optimistic about that than the SP. I fear that the lessons of the past show that it will benefit people if they find a real job with which they can provide their income, so that they can say goodbye to the assistance. People are very proud of it if they can. They deserve a better reward for this and they have been getting it since 1 January of this year. I think that's something to celebrate with. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u73	I have asked a number of questions about the effects of Mario Draghi's measure to expand that money supply. What effect will this have on pension funds? I keep hearing that inflation needs to rise, but pensioners are not compensated for that. I would also like to remind you of my question about raising the age of AOW so quickly, which puts people in trouble. Unemployment is high. Young people don't get to work anymore. Why does this minister believe in raising retirement age in this way, when the labour market is not asking for it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u74	I cannot possibly say anything about the action taken by the European Central Bank. This is happening right now. We see that inflation in the euro area is incredibly low, so low that it represents a risk to the economy. I do not know what measures will be taken, let alone whether I can calculate their impact on our pension funds. For pension funds, inflation is important, but also interest rates; I was just talking about that. Let us talk about raising the retirement age. Over a period of ten years, the age of exit in the Netherlands has risen tremendously. That's a good thing. The Netherlands is also complimented on this, for example by the OECD. If you didn't, with fewer and fewer people you would have to provide more and more expensive collective facilities for a huge, expanding group of people. You can see now that people work longer. We must do our utmost to enable them to do so. They must remain healthy, they must be happy to do their job and there must be retraining and further training. All these measures are important, so that they can actually be done. It does, however, mean that the welfare state can also be preserved for future generations. The Netherlands is very successful in this; we should continue to do so in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u75	It is striking that many European countries do not; they do not go to 67. Nor does the European Union, which we are talking about with these billions; they are already going to retire at 65 if it is not younger. I do wonder what happened to the PvdA, because I remember a time of mass unemployment in the 1980s...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'm gonna step in. Here is the Dutch Minister. Questions about the Labour Party should be asked if the Labour Party member is here. That's really better. Here is now a representative of the cabinet, including your cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u77	I find it difficult to separate Mr Asscher from the Labour Party. Labour market policy is important for this minister. We have a huge, massive unemployment. Young people are no longer in business and are on the sidelines for years. That reminds me of the eighties. Then there were a lot of calls: let us retire earlier and make room for the young people. People don't want to retire at 67; they want to retire earlier. In many professions it is no longer possible to sustain it. The question is why this cabinet, why Mr Asscher, continues to raise the age of AOW while people are becoming unemployed. It leads to additional unemployment. Why does the Minister keep believing in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u78	Firstly, I will not blame Mr Madlener for not seeing me apart from the Labour Party. I am also a member of that party; no mistake about that. I am only speaking on behalf of the government; I cannot express party positions here. But I can tell you why it's better that we don't go back to the eighties. Actually, we're all still paying for the VRS, which was used so massively back then. By pushing out a very large group of elderly people, also healthy, vital and enthusiastic people who could still work well, you leave a lot of human capital unused. We cannot afford that as a country. Already, thanks to the ageing population, fortunately, we have elderly people who live much longer. We want to take good care of them. We want there to be a good AOW and there to be good, accessible care. It costs money. That will have to be brought up by people who work. With Mr Madlener's reasoning, you actually say: let's go back to the eighties, let's get people back from the 60s or 55s of the labour market. But then you can't do it. Then the country goes bankrupt and the welfare state is ruined. The responsibility of this cabinet is to ensure that financial order is put in place, that the Netherlands can start to grow again so that jobs are re-established and that the welfare state is secured for the future. Not only can we be very satisfied today about any popular measure, but our children will also have a decent pension. Then there is also good care for grandchildren, and for great grandchildren also good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u79	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u80	No, Mr Madlener, it goes in two. That is the end of the first term. There is a second term, Mr Madlener, so there are new opportunities. I suggest we go straight ahead. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister, in particular for his reply and for his commitment to the efforts he has made towards the municipalities. I would also like to thank Mrs Karabulut, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Madlener and former colleague Klein for requesting this debate. Unfortunately, the Minister continues to lay down a dampening statistical blanket on the purchasing power debate. In order to help him better understand the purchasing power development of people individually, I submit two short motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable from a policy point of view to obtain as complete a picture as possible of purchasing power development as it has actually occurred;]] [[Whereas the IBO report "Elderly income and wealth, analysis and policy options" has followed, inter alia, purchasing power development up to 2010, based primarily on the age cohort approach;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to gain additional insight into the purchasing power development experienced by older people during the period 2003-2013 and, as far as possible, over a longer period;]] [[invites the government to determine the purchasing power development of older people on the basis of the birth cohort approach and to inform the Chamber within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable from a policy point of view to obtain as complete a picture as possible of purchasing power development,]] [[Whereas in practice purchasing power development is determined and monitored mainly on the basis of age cohorts;]] [[Whereas the additional and systematic monitoring of the purchasing power development of population groups based on birth cohorts can provide more insight into the purchasing power development that people experience in practice;]] [[invites the government to conduct an independent exploration of the advantages and disadvantages, and to monitor the longer-term added value of purchasing power development based on birth cohorts, including the Nibud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-80]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mr. Chairman. Although the Minister may not have expressed it so explicitly, he does recognise that the purchasing power of large groups of older people has been structurally lagging behind by making political choices. The Minister writes in his letter that we might be able to catch up. So he's suggesting that that's his expectation. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purchasing power of pensioners has been lagging behind overall purchasing power development since 2010;]] [[Whereas this is partly due to the failure to index or even shorten pension benefits over several years;]] [[calls on the government, if indexing again remains for many pensioners this year, to examine the impact of the new ftk on this and to share its views with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u83	Perhaps the Minister can answer my central question, given all the austerity measures that come towards the elderly: what does the cabinet have against the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mrs Vermeij, do you have a question on the last point? Shortly, please, and no follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u85	The new financial review framework has also been adopted as it will reduce the reduction in the number of cases. By definition, this shows a positive effect on the purchasing power of older people. Does Mrs Karabulut agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u86	That is the intention, but we know that intentions do not always come true. The Minister suggests that, but I have a hard head in it. I don't believe it. I'm not comfortable with it. The Minister suggests, as he does now in his letter, that in the coming years those discounts and losses will be overtaken. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. If it turns out that this year is not happening, with this new financial review framework today, is he prepared to investigate what it is about? That can even count on your party's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mrs Karabulut is now confusing two things. Discounts and catch-up indices are two totally different things. However, my question to Mrs Karabulut was the following. If you spend less short, or the discount on tithes, as is now laid down by legislation, then that is not the intention; that is a law. Is that by definition positive for the purchasing power of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u88	I can't say that. That's gonna have to prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer. I am pleased that he is going to see how pensions, especially pensions from insurers, can respond to the moment when the AOW enters into force. For the Acts I say that there is a role for the government in this respect, because it has decoupled the pivotal age in the tax and first set it at 65 and then 67 years. So it doesn't go with the AOW entry date. The insurers carry it out that way and can look back at the government that caused it. In that game, the elderly don't matter who it's about. I therefore ask for a solution. I am not going to table a motion on this, but just wait with interest for the answer. I'll file another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the abolition of the AOW partner bonus this spring for new AOWs and the abolition of the elderly allowance in box 3 as of 1 January 2016 for people with rent surcharges have huge purchasing power implications;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate within one month how the people affected by these measures are informed in a timely and adequate manner, including an action perspective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mr. Chairman. The government believes in tax increases, but the PVV believes in tax cuts. The cabinet believes in open borders and comes in for that job. The PVV believes in protecting our labour market from all those migrant workers. The government believes in raising the age of AOW when there is a lot of unemployment, but the PVV does not believe in that at all; that only makes the problem worse. People don't always want to work up to 67 years and couldn't even prepare for that AOW increase in age. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an increase in the age of AOW will burden people with an AOW-hole, thereby reducing purchasing power;]] [[considers that an increase in the AOW age creates unemployment;]] [[calls on the Government not (further) to increase the AOW age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr President, I have a question about Mr Madlener's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u92	If the question is not about the motion that has been tabled, I shall have Mr Madlener finish his speech first. That's a little more straightforward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u93	I have a second motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the elderly in the Netherlands have been disproportionately hard hit in their pockets in recent years;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to restore the purchasing power of older people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29389-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u94	No one will deny that if in a crisis public finances are to be put in order, people lose their jobs and pensions cannot be indexed, people feel that in their pockets. In this debate, the PVV has tried to profile itself as the purchasing power champion. I have therefore taken up the development of purchasing power under the present cabinet and compared it with the development of purchasing power under the previous cabinet, which was supported by Mr Madlener's party. Purchasing power increased on average by 0.5% in the years 2013-2015. That is not much; there are people in heavy weather. However, can Mr Madlener tell me what the average increase in purchasing power was in the two years that the PVV supported the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u95	In those days many Dutch people were better in favour of it. Unemployment was lower and the purchasing power of most people was better than today. In this context, I would remind you why we have not continued to tolerate that cabinet. This was precisely about purchasing power, especially the purchasing power of older people. We did not go along with this austerity policy that this cabinet, with the support of D66, is now pursuing. We all see the consequences of that disastrous policy of tax increases. We call it austerity, but actually it's pure, ordinary tax increases. We see the result of that. This is partly due to Mr Van Weyenberg's party of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u96	That's a little of what Mr Madlener is doing here. I'm just gonna get the numbers. In times of severe economic weather and austerity, average purchasing power has increased. In the years 2011 and 2012, when Mr Madlener's party was fully responsible, purchasing power fell by 3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'd like to nuance that. First of all, the crisis was much deeper than it is now. In most countries, the crisis is over, except in the Netherlands. In that sense, we were a little less favourable in international terms. But then unemployment was lower and many people had more purchasing power. I'll stick with that. Again, thanks to D66, this cabinet continues with the tax increases that are so disastrous. The increase in the age of AOW is also disastrous for all those young people who are also looking for a job. All I can say is, D66, shame on you for the results of this cabinet that you have made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u98	I feel like I'm being addressed. I take full responsibility and I don't make numbers any prettier than they are. It would be a credit to Mr Madlener if he simply acknowledged that in the two years in which his party was responsible, purchasing power fell by 3%, while the same purchasing power rose on average in recent years. With that, I do not diminish the fact that even now people are having a hard time. But the image of Mr Madlener that everything is good with him and bad with others is simply not supported by the facts. It is a pity that Mr Madlener is not honest about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u99	I'll let the facts speak for themselves. Unemployment was much lower then than it is now. We're seeing the result of this cabinet, supported by D66, aren't we? Who's happy about this? I refer once again to the results of this cabinet and to everyday practice: people no longer have money in their pockets, which is partly thanks to D66, which maintains this cabinet. Fortunately, on 18 March there will be elections. I hope people deal with parties like D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you to Mr Madlener. Two elections ago, the PVV advocated not further raising the retirement age. He's doing it again in a motion. But one day after that election, the PVV released that promise. You can't talk about moving insight, but maybe about moving insight. I am glad that Mr Madlener has come this far again. Welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u101	We had to make an appointment with VVD and CDA back then. They wanted to raise that age so quickly, and we have been able to limit it to 66 years over many years. That was a compromise, which does not mean that we were in favour of it. But sometimes you have to add water to the wine. When I look at what's going on today, I think, "God, what a good thing we were doing at the time." But again, the PVV stands for 65 years and will remain so. I will repeat that in the next election. Then the people in the country should see what is better for them and for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mrs Vermeij has indicated that she does not need a second term. The same applies to Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mr. Chairman. I'll stick to the motions. First of all, I respond to the motion in part No. 80 by Mr Krol, requesting that the purchasing power of older people be determined on the basis of the birth cohort approach and that the Court be informed within one month. I would like to advise against this motion, because of the argument I have just given in the debate. It has been taken into account in the ibo. It is still important to be able to compare groups. The same pre-opinion applies to the motion in part No. 81, which states that there should be an independent exploration of the advantages and disadvantages and added value of the longer term monitoring of purchasing power development on the basis of birth cohorts. The Nibud should be involved. I do not recommend this motion, because I can compare, first and foremost, the year-on-year performance of purchasing power predictions based on standard households. Secondly, the CBS always publishes, looking back, actual purchasing power developments. These are, among other things, the figures that Mr Krol is now basing himself on. In other words, precisely from a policy point of view, the information requested is available. If, however, you extend that very far, as suggested in this motion, you get an incredible figure row that adds nothing to the sometimes complex purchasing power point debate. In the motion in part No. 82 Ms Karabulut asked the government to examine the impact of the new ftk on indexation this year. I'm deceiving that motion. I just indicated why. The ftk has just been hired by both chambers. Indexation depends on a multitude of factors, but above all on the health of pension funds. Mr Omtzigt asked in the motion for a resolution on item No. 83 to indicate within one month how the people affected by these measures are informed in a timely and adequate manner. If we can get that deadline out, I'll leave this motion to judge Chamber. If that is not possible, I must first understand myself with Mr Wiebes, because I do not know if he can do so within a month. Then I would request that the motion be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u104	I will amend the text as soon as possible. Then I hope I get that information as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u105	Then we have the motion in part No. Mr Madlener on the increase in the age of AOW. The motion requests that that age should not be increased. Apart from the question of whether Mr Madlener is committed to this at 65, 66 or 67 years, or at any time in between, we do not think that is wise. So we advise against that motion. In the motion in part No. 85 calls for measures to restore the purchasing power of older people. We are taking many measures to improve the purchasing power of older people in particular with a small supplementary pension or just AOW. That's how we manage to keep that group safe. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u106	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
