ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u1	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank you and the members of your Chamber very much for the first-term contribution. If one thing has become clear, it is that in fact all the Members of your Chamber who have spoken agree that the target group we are talking about today really needs extra support. I don't think there's any difference of opinion about that either. It is a very good thing that all Members have put this forward. Similarly, all Members have stressed that the agreements contained in the Social Agreement of 11 April 2013 matter. I'm gonna sit a little bit forward, because I don't think I can be understood otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u3	You're very clear. It sounds like hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u4	I'm glad. It is important to stress that the social agreement has brought about beautiful things, especially for the people we are dealing with this afternoon. Through the social agreement, employers have promised very equestrianly that they will create 100,000 new places for these people. The government employers added another 25,000 places. This bill regulates important issues for the job appointment, such as the target group, the target group register and monitoring. This legislative proposal already clarifies to employers what happens if I cannot say this firmly enough, and if this is not achieved, it will not be done properly. In fact, this law is a special law, because I assume that we will not need any part of this law. At least I hope so very sincerely. I'm underlining that again. If the employers comply with their agreements, we can simply leave the quota in the drawer. The cabinet is confident that employers will do everything in their power to get the people who are involved to work. We also see good examples of this. The drivers Aart van der Gaag for the market sector and Hans Spigt for the public sector are increasingly raising the awareness that the job deal is important to give and give people with disabilities a job opportunity and to shape the inclusive labour market. Mr President, with your permission I would like to build up my speech from seven parts. I will try to respond as fully as possible but as fully as possible. These seven elements include: the target group, the justification for this law, the job appointment system and the quota levy, the target group register, zero measurement and monitoring, the loan associations, the support of employers and two other topics. I'll start with the target group. All members of your Chamber have responded to this. The spokesmen of the Christian Union and the PVV have asked what the considerations were to define precisely this group. The definition of the target group is the result of a careful process, which has been completed together with the social partners and the municipalities. For this target group, given that these people cannot earn the legal minimum wage (wml) themselves, an additional investment should be made on top of the regular tools and facilities for people with disabilities. Widening the target group would make it difficult for the group that cannot earn a wml, even within the wider target group, while this group deserves support. The social agreement also agreed to make an additional effort for the WGA/WIA group. This appointment comes on top of the job deal. Thanks to the Lower House, the target group for the quota scheme is something else. This is actually the same group as the target group for the job appointment, so people who are covered by the Participation Act and cannot earn the statutory minimum wage independently, people with a WSW indication, Wajongers with work capacity and people with a WIW job or an id job. The additional target group for the quota levy consists of people with a medical disability created for their 18th birthday or during their studies, who cannot earn a wml without a provision and with a provision. The quota rate takes account of these additional people. There's a monitoring in the law. Mr Elzinga of the SP asks what we can do if the monitoring shows that displacement is taking place. The phenomenon of displacement has also been discussed more widely. The definition of the current target group is about earning or not earning the wml; I just said it. For other groups, which are not among the target groups of this bill, municipalities and UWV have tools and facilities to continue to guide these people to work. So these people can go to the municipality or the UWV for attributes to be guided to work. The people in the target group are ideally placed in the guarantee jobs, because we think it is important to treat these people with priority. They need the most help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u5	Can I ask the Secretary of State whether she not only wants to closely monitor these agreements, but whether she also wants to include in the monitoring the resources left from the municipal funds for all the other groups outside this area? Will a large proportion of these resources not go hand in hand with these agreements? Because of this, the people who are just outside are empty-handed. That could be a signal to us to increase the resources for this purpose for the municipalities when the next budget is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u6	We are of course very keen to monitor. We will also monitor the Participation Act widely. Then we will not only zoom in on this target group, but also on the rest of the world, if I may put it that way. So the answer to the question is yes. The spokesperson of the VVD asked a question about the target register and the privacy data. Can everyone just look in there? The target group register is not a public register that anyone can access. That is not desirable or necessary. The Personal Data Protection Act does not allow this either. Of course, it's about the UWV checking who ends up in the register. The data from the target group register are used by employers. They can check whether the person on their payroll really belongs to the target group. A confirmation of inclusion in the target group register shall be given to an employer only if he himself has the bsn (citizen service number) of the person concerned and identifies himself with his own tax number. So it's very, very straightforward. The spokesman of the Labour Party asks what the cabinet is doing to combat exclusion and discrimination against groups in the labour market. Do I actively consult with employers on the necessary mentality changes and draw their attention to their social role? I think this is the most important motivation for this bill. You could also say that perhaps I put it on a bit firm, but then it is immediately clear that it is a cultural shock for all of us: for employers, for the trade union movement, for the UWV, for the municipalities and not least for the people who are involved. Employers now provide insight into the inclusive labour market for the first time. So the 125,000 extra places are not "vacatures old style," if you don't mind my saying so. It is really about tailor-made work in the workplace, where employers are very careful and I already see some very nice examples of this with the help of the UWV, municipalities and social workers looking at which parts can be carried out by this target group. What jobs can be done by people from this target group? That is different for each company, but I think that employers are already doing this very well and that they are getting that more and more on their retina. That is, of course, because this Chamber and the House of Representatives have already talked about this target group on many occasions. This is also due to the fact that the social agreement, which honours those who deserve it, has ensured that employers and workers have taken up the gauntlet and they have said: we are going to break a lance for this in our own backs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u7	Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to discuss it, but I wonder how customisation relates to equal treatment legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u8	That's what I'm going to talk about on the next block. Mrs Sent also asked whether you should speak of stigmatisation. I think that the extra jobs are making it increasingly normal for people with disabilities to work in companies and institutions. Stigmatisation is combated, hopefully up to such a level that the majority of employers appreciate people with disabilities for their performance. At that time we can speak of a social anchoring of the whole. I'm ready for the second block now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u9	The Secretary of State was just talking about the target population register. I asked a question about the number of people who are now on the register. Will she come back to that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u10	Sure, but I can answer it already. The target group register is already filled by the people who are in the Wajong and who can work, and also by people who are on the waiting list of SW companies. The target group register must now be filled successfully by new people knocking on the door of municipalities. I don't think this is going to be fast enough, so I had a consultation with the VNG and the UWV last week to see exactly where any bottlenecks might be. This week, officials will be talking about it. It is also stressed very strongly from the Chamber of Commerce, because we need to ensure that new people are properly entered in the register so that they too can enter into guarantee jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u11	So there's still no idea why this hasn't gotten off the ground yet? I understand that only 70 additional people have been added so far. So the reason for that is not yet clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u12	One reason might be... now I'm going to reason a little ins Blaue hinein... that it was for special education and practical education until recently usance that young people went to UWV a six months before they turned 18 to apply for a Wajong benefit. Those young people must go to the congregation now, and that corridor would not be sufficiently clear. I think that's an important sign on the wall. That is what we are really pushing for, so that the schools involved in the labour market regions get much shorter lines with the municipalities and they can help their young people one-on-one into the municipalities. I come to the second block on the basis of this law. I share with everyone, among others, Senator De Lange has talked about it. The deep desire that the people of this target group should participate in the labour market on the basis of what they can do. I have heard that Mr De Lange has also contributed to the Animal Party. I note that the Party for Animals in the House of Representatives has been able to vote in favour of this law. So you understand that I hope that both parties will be able to join us at the end of the journey. The GroenLinks and SP spokesmen have asked how I see the issue of structural underemployment in the labour market and how it already excludes structural people. What am I gonna do to deal with that problem? It is very important that employers look at their own workplace, and that they also make it suitable by, in good Dutch, jobcarving and reshoring or job creation. The government supports these initiatives and the service providers that help employers, such as AWVN, Locus and UWV. We also have a large number of other instruments on offer for employers. So we're doing a lot about that. By the way, I have to say that fortunately there are new vacancies every time that allow people to board. But again, it's really about creating new functions for this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u13	The problem raised by my group, and I think the SP Group too, goes deeper and is more fundamental, of course, namely that the number of jobs suitable for people with low education or those with disabilities is gradually falling. A lot of those jobs just disappear. In fact, I would like to hear from the cabinet whether it sees this structural problem and is prepared to make more structural provision for more places where people with low education or disabilities can work. That question goes on, of course. Then you can think of the revision of the tax system, where you can take a number of measures to make work more attractive. There could also be more jobs in the repair sector, for example; you can think of anything. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is also dealing with this larger structural issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u14	Sure, and I'm not alone, of course. It applies to the entire cabinet, with the Minister of Social Affairs first. We have often had debates in this Chamber and the House of Representatives on matters such as robotisation, how to organise the labour market so that there is a place under the sun for everyone and how to ensure that people can develop their abilities through education in such a way that they can position themselves as high as possible. This cabinet even goes so far as to recruit people again for the lowest paid jobs, especially in the cleaning sector, thereby offering prospects. In short, I think Mrs Vos has a very important issue to address when it comes to the broad labour market. This afternoon we zoom in enormously; I realize that. At the same time, it's all inseparable. It is therefore quite right that Mrs Vos has raised this point. I come to a question from the CDA and the VVD. Has the Cabinet considered cutting this bill in half? The answer to that is no. We are assuming that the scope for voluntary approaches to employers will be used to a large extent. I have just said that it is strange that, as Secretary of State, I am defending and treating a law, which I really hope will never be necessary. By now laying down in the legislation what the quota levy is going to look like, the government is giving employers advance clarity on what to take into account if they do not achieve the agreed numbers of jobs. As far as I'm concerned, those two do belong together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u15	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to tell her that she hasn't done so yet, to consider leaving the quota part out of the law. It has a great chance that this will result in enormous regulatory savings and additional burdens on employers as a result of that share of the quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u16	We're gonna have to get the number of warranty jobs anyway. That's neat, because that's what we agreed on in the social agreement. I think it is fair, of both employers and employees, that the social agreement has also said that it is nice that these guarantee jobs are created, but that the quota is not entirely off the table. Over and over again, we have said to each other with open eyes that we hope that the 125,000 jobs will just get there and that the quota will never be necessary. Jobs are being monitored and they're being checked to see if they're getting there. If they didn't show up in any year's drive, we're gonna have to do something. It can be any year's work, and I hope it is not necessary, but I don't think it's good to get it out of the law now, knowing that employers and employees know this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u17	There's a point where the Secretary of State can't convince me. I hear her a few times in the five minutes that she's working on her answer, saying she has full confidence in the employers. Next, the Secretary of State is not prepared to abandon what she calls the stick behind the door, even though it would have a pleasant effect, the lesser regulation. The Secretary of State expresses confidence and she excites people if she now decides to allow the quota section to enter into force at a much later date; for example, when the employers have shown three, four or five years in a row that they do not achieve what they themselves have agreed on on a voluntary basis. I think that such an attitude and such a approach to employers leads to a greater sense of responsibility and enthusiasm than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u18	I think it's two, I think it's sincere. When I negotiated with people from the trade union movement, VNO'ers, NCW'ers and SMEs, I would like to come back to that as well. I noticed that the fact that the coalition agreement included the quota at first instance helped. Since we have to keep track of the warranty jobs, you're gonna need that regulation anyway. To this end, the target population register shall be used. Furthermore, you don't really need that much extra regulation for the quota. The bureaucracy isn't that bad. I would like to stick to those two components in this bill, but I keep saying that I hope that one of them can always stay in the drawer. This concerns the question on the part of the VVD and the CDA. Mr Terpstra asked me whether it would be better to replace the levy with a reward. The bill contains a voluntary approach and allows employers the opportunity. The government also facilitates employers to remove financial risks through various instruments. The government also supports initiatives that help employers create jobs, all kinds of things like The Normal Case, AWVN, Locus. The government supports employers who are of good will. You could say that's a big plus. If that is the case, I think that it has been said enough about this now, and that employers, with all this support, should not set up these places, then the quota should be taken off the shelf. Then a question from the PVV side. The PVV said they didn't see much in it. However, I would like to stress that there is a clear difference between the Work of Rutte/Verhage, which was supported by the PVV, and Rutte/Asscher's Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement and Labour Quota Act. The major difference is that jobs are now being created for this group and that they can therefore become part of the labour market. I am somewhat surprised that the Act was enthusiastically supported by the PVV, without jobs, while this included a much thicker cut than the Act of Participation, and that this bill of employment for those who are struggling to participate is rejected. I'm surprised. I continue with questions from the Labour Party: do individual companies feel addressed? What does the government base its trust on? I do trust that there is support and commitment. There is sufficient labour resources available and municipalities and UWV have the tools to seduce and support employers. The Cabinet, the Programme Board and the Work Room provide support products. Employers are already showing that they are actively working. VNO-NCW is making an extra effort with a driver, Mr. Aart van der Gaag. The government employers have started work in the same way, with the driver Hans Spigt. I see the employers aren't leaning back. I certainly have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u19	I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how small businesses, with fewer than 25 employees, are encouraged to take their responsibilities into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u20	I have also seen wonderful examples of this in the country. Small businesses are very often dealt with by municipalities, because aldermen in their own region know small businesses very well and encourage them to find a place in the workplace, including through wage costs subsidies and all the other instruments that are at stake. Precisely family businesses often have a tendency to offer these people a perspective from their own village or neighborhood. That's very visual. It also helps, of course, for the Jobs Agreement Act and quota labour restrictions. In addition, this also helps the big companies. When small businesses make places, large companies have to make fewer places at the end of the journey. It's a really big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u21	Thank you for bringing this issue to light by Mrs Sent. We have also asked questions about this and I have literally asked the Secretary of State to indicate how small employers are encouraged. I miss this in the answer. I'd like to hear what is explicitly done by the government. The Secretary of State replies that municipalities are encouraged to enter into conversation. This is what municipalities do with the big employers, and it is likely that this will lead to more effect. The 500 interviews with small employers are much more intensive. I'll ask the question again. What does the Secretary of State intend to do in order to get the small employers, without the stick behind the door, to make a manifest commitment to employing the people in the labour pool?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u22	I am busy with the SME Netherlands, in Mr Van Straalen's person, to see how we can seduce small employers to offer these people places. We have a basketful of instruments from the government. As Mr Beckers may know, last Friday we decided to send a bill to the Council of State to synchronise the no-risk policy and mobility policy for all employers in the Netherlands, especially for small employers, so that they do not have to think about whether they should go to the municipality or to the UWV. It's getting much clearer. This is also very pleasant for small employers. We are also thinking of launching a campaign for small and medium-sized enterprises in order to help them too when it comes to this type of job creation. The Empire is indeed doing something to help small employers too. Instruments such as labour cost subsidies help small employers enormously. It's all in the basket. Then there is the question of the PvdA and the VVD whether there are employers who can rely on special circumstances, in the sense that they can say: is it impossible for us to make such a place? The starting point is that all employers have opportunities to create jobs and make them available to people with disabilities. It is important that employers really adapt functions, sometimes almost unravelling them to find suitable jobs for people with such disabilities. In practice, it turns out that every company can do that. It's not about crazy percentages. It is a percentage between 2 and 3 but it turns out that in each company there is work that can be done by people with disabilities. The only exception I could come up with is a hardness clause. It's in there, too. On this basis, an employer may be exempted from the quota scheme in year t where in year t+1 it appears that he has become a small employer in year t. At first, he was over 25, but then he dropped below 25. That's the only hardness clause. In practice, however, it appears that almost all employers have jobs that could be done by these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u23	One side of the labour market concerns employers. The other side concerns the workers. Is there a sufficient supply of labour restrictions across the region to fill these jobs? Are there any figures on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u24	Sure, we have a total of 240,000 Wajangers. Of these, roughly 100,000 permanent jobs are limited, in such a way that they will not be able to work. There's 60,000 already at work and 80,000 are looking for work. Those 80,000 Wajangers are already in the target list anyway. They live all over the Netherlands. Employers can already rely on this. Furthermore, we also have a limited group of WIW'ers and ID'ers in the Netherlands. There are also 10,000 people waiting on SW companies. They, too, can be used by employers, if I may say so, to come to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u25	Mr Beckers, I would remind you that you still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u26	That's right. I will certainly take that into account, Mr President. However, the Secretary of State now has the subject matter. Perhaps it would be easiest if I tried to take this issue off with the Secretary of State. There may also be companies that have done their utmost to organise workplaces for people with disabilities, but that there are not enough or at all suitable people in that region for these functions. Shouldn't there be a hardness clause?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u27	I'm not that far. In practice, if there are real function units made with an employer, there is always, although that may sound a bit strange, a lid that fits on the pot. It is also a new way of "making up" people towards the labour market. This requires the employer to look very closely at what jobs he can offer in his company for people with disabilities and that the UWV or the municipality in question carefully looks at which person fits best. Contrary to what you normally do in the labour market if you have a job in which 70, 80 people apply, this is much more about customization per job and per person. It's about people with disabilities. They need to get the right tools to the employer, but that can be anything. It is very important that this is carefully considered in the supervision of those people. So Mr Beckers has a point, but it is far too early to make reservations in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u28	The Secretary of State is looking at this on the part of the worker, but I am trying to stress that the employer can provide all kinds of jobs for people with disabilities, but sometimes they are not present. Under the current system, the employer will then still be entitled to the quota levy. That seems to me to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u29	Mr Beckers is moving forward a bit enthusiastically, but we have all agreed that the jobs will be filled per year. There are already quite a few people in the target group register, mostly modo 100,000 people. It is now important to have the jobs that need to be created really filled by those people in the 2015 and 2016 annual editions. I cannot imagine that at the moment this presents the problem that Mr Beckers has outlined. If it is to be seen at some point that jobs are simply not being created, the quota falls off the shelf. I have already said in the debate on the Participation Act that we are going to monitor how things are going to proceed. We have also agreed with each other. I also answer the questions about this immediately. If the quota ever has to be removed, we will first go to the table with VNG, UWV, social partners and the Empire to see how jobs have not been created. In short, there are safety valves everywhere in the system, both for employers and for the people involved. I think it's way too early to prelude on those flaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u30	Of course, there are two sides to this medal. I asked the other question exactly. The Secretary of State uses the possibility clause in the explanatory memorandum. When it is clear that employers do not fulfil their obligations, it must not be the case that there is endless consultation and ultimately no levy is paid. I find it a little complicated to point out the answer, because the Secretary of State says: we are going to consult first and there are still a lot of safety valves. That sounds almost like: it won't happen, that tax!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u31	It is good that both Mr Beckers and Mrs Vos rush to the interrupting microphone. If the number of jobs in one year is not reached, the quota will be withdrawn. We agreed, however, that we should first conclave with all those who belong at that table in order to indicate very well why those jobs were not achieved. I think that's nice, too. Let us not hope so, but if there were to be a massive economic crisis, much worse than in 2008, then of course you should want to look at what that means for this appointment. I think that's real. But if the jobs are not there, we basically have the quota as a stick behind the door. On the part of the Labour Party, it has been asked whether I am not afraid that companies are going to cut themselves up to get below the threshold of 25 employees. Of course, it is up to the companies to decide how to organise their work, but the government considers that the possibility of cutting up is particularly low. The costs associated with paying a possible quota levy will often not outweigh the costs associated with splitting up business units. Think of the costs involved in setting up your own e.g. registration with the Chamber of Commerce, the separate financial administration for the payroll declaration, your own stationery... I have a whole laundry list here, but I'm not going to read it all. So I'm not afraid of that. Then I come to the basis of the law as such. A question was raised by the PVV. Illustrative for the employment opportunity is the fact that of the 110,000 vacancies in January 160 cases were referred to the Participation Act, with 140 cases being a policy officer for the implementation of the law. That's how I like a few more. If I am well informed, it is a question of how often the word "Participation Act" appears in job vacancies. This is, of course, quite different from the number of vacancies that are suitable for people who belong in the target group register. I don't think you should compare that apple with that pear. Let me now turn to a question from the Christian Union. I too am pleased that Mr Ester was again present at the first term. The Christian Union has asked me to try to further promote social entrepreneurship in the tax system. This was also requested by the Christian Union in the Lower House. I have indeed passed this on to my colleague in the finance department. It is also good to point out a request from Minister Asscher on social entrepreneurship to the ESC. It is wise to first hear what the ESC recommends before responding to measures to encourage social enterprise. I expect the advice of the ESC in summer 2015. Then there is a question from the SP, which also lives wider in the Chamber, namely whether the government is prepared to evaluate after a year or two the impact on employers' behaviour as regards the other obstacles to entry into employment. The Chamber will be informed in several ways about employers' behaviour. For example, the experience of clients, municipalities and employers with the implementation and implementation of the Participation Act, including the experience with the deployment and use of the new tools and provisions, will be examined. These experience studies will be available in 2015, 2017 and 2019 in the monitor and in the evaluation of the Participation Act. From the possible activation of the quota levy, the SP says: we would like to have an evaluation two years after that quota levy has started. Well, I can imagine. Shall I put it this way? Okay. GroenLinks has asked if it would be a good idea to "name and sham" the employers who do nothing, if that is Dutch, at least. I do not think Naming-and-Saming is necessary, because if it turns out that employers are massively choosing to pay the quota levy, the government will consider additional measures. We have also exchanged this in the House of Representatives. Naming-and-shaming is not obvious, because this could be a punitive sanction. The purpose of the levy is expressly not to impose a penalty. I'll get back to you on that. After all, there has been no breach of a legal rule according to the letter of the law. As a result, there is no formal sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u32	My question is, then, what measures does the Secretary of State intend to take when, in fact, the tax is paid massively and, therefore, far too little is being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u33	In view of the Van Ojik/Kerstens motion in the House of Representatives, I have said: do you now propose that in the long term the majority of the larger employers choose to simply pay the levy, do you then also have to look at the level of that charge? Well, then we're a long way away, aren't we? That's really step 23, but you shouldn't rule it out. I'm at the third block by now. This is about the job agreement system and the quota levy. It's a bit about the technique, but it's good to change that as well. I have already said a few things about this, particularly in response to Mr Beckers. I honestly have no suspicion of employers. Nor do I think there is a 'prisoner's dilemma', as Mr Beckers just mentioned. The job deal is collective. It is therefore up to the collective to ensure that it works. I have genuine faith in that. There was a question on the part of GroenLinks and the VVD, which I have already addressed in response to a question from Mrs Vos. The discussion at that table with all these partners is important, but we naturally assume that the quota will come off the shelf if the jobs are not achieved. You'll do both, I'll say. The next question from GroenLinks is a bit of a like-dan question, but I'm going to go into it anyway. GroenLink's question to the cabinet: do you now suggest that there would be a fantastic star and that there would be a lot of financial space on the rich budget, would the cabinet then look at additional resources to guide this target group to and on the labour market? It is, of course, very difficult for me to say something about this now, but I can imagine that this question is being asked. I, too, naturally think it is important that these people should be able to spread their wings both to the labour market and to the labour market. I would like to add that it is also very important that the resources available today are not very little used. Beautiful developments are that municipalities are now doing much more to guide several people with one job coach. It may be a little flat, but it can be done with less resources. This is also the way to look at people's guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u34	I also asked the question because the budget for reintegration and training has fallen dramatically. In 2002 it was still 3 billion and by now we are at 0.8 billion. So the budget has fallen incredibly. We hear it squeaking and cracking everywhere. The labour market is extremely difficult, especially for this group, because the demands are also increasing. I think it is almost strange that we think that with such a small budget we can let people who are away from the labour market take that step. I urge the Secretary of State to do her utmost to really get some room for this. It is very much needed to make this objective a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u35	Mrs. Vos heard me correctly. We now have 30 million extra for SW companies, also by means of a motion in the Lower House, so that they can turn into SW companies of the twenty-first century. We have also invested an additional 35 million in the labour market regions, because they also need to "set up' themselves. In addition, we have chosen to ensure that the wage subsidy, other than the wage dispensation, does not come from the 0.8 billion, but from the I part. Their size is reviewed every year. Saves a huge sip on a drink. The cabinet has therefore indeed improved a number of things, including the financial situation. I think Mrs Fox has understood me otherwise. The Christian Union and the PvdA have asked whether the €5,000 amount of the levy is a real amount. Of course, it is possible to add ifs and buts, but for an employer it is only beneficial not to employ a person with a disability if the annual additional costs are higher than €5,000. That will not be the issue, because an employer also receives the wage costs subsidy, guidance, job coaching and.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is a real amount. If, in a number of years' time, it appears that the tax is being paid by masse rather than by places, then we can always look at the amount of the tax. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has asked whether it is possible to introduce a weighted quota. It is not clear who had less than 50% earning capacity at the time of the zero measurement and who earned more than the gross minimum wage. That's incredibly complicated. I wouldn't want to hug it immediately. My note says "dramatic," but I think that's a little exaggerated. Let's try to get to work this way first. GroenLinks has asked if I can consider extending the period in which a person counts to five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u36	The Secretary of State has so far managed not to answer any of my questions. I find that remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u37	You will!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u38	We could, but we've been at it 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u39	Almost an hour!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u40	An hour! I find that remarkable. On this point, I had a slightly different question from Mrs Vos, namely whether the Secretary of State also excludes that such a weighted approach can still play a role in the larger target group if that can be addressed in 2018. Would the Secretary of State take that into account in her reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u41	I'll really come back to D66's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u42	I'll look at the clock in the meantime! Do you keep an eye on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u43	I'll do my best. But now I have lost the question that Mr Backer asked. That's pretty bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u44	At least the action to scare the Secretary of State worked. The question was whether the weighted quotas could be taken into account in the review and at the entry into force in 2018 or whether the State Secretary would rule that out in advance. I'd be sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u45	That was indeed Mr Backer's question. In the conversation prior to using the quota, you should also want to look at the instruments we have used so far. This is one of them, too. That does not alter the fact that it would be very difficult in the implementation, because you do not have an adequate zero measurement. The question is whether the period during which a person counts can be extended to five years. Two interests play a role in the choice of the measuring period. The first is employers' assurance that people continue to count for a period of time, and the second is the fact that jobs should remain focused on people who really need it. With the two-year measuring period, the government does justice to both interests, because with a longer or unlimited time span, jobs are occupied by people who do not really need them anymore. I think two years is a good time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u46	Mrs. Fox? I would remind you that you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u47	You are right, and I will try to keep it very short. However, the Secretary of State ignores the crucial point, namely that someone is able to earn the statutory minimum wage on his own and is therefore no longer covered by the quota provision, precisely because an employer has invested a lot in that person and has accompanied him well. I am rather concerned that employers, in response, no longer employ such a person, because they do not see the point and because they have to comply with their quota obligation. I would like the Secretary of State to take this issue seriously and see how we can prevent it. Then I don't see why that five-year period would be so wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u48	These are people who develop, who will be able to earn the minimum wage on their own and who will eventually no longer fit in with the target group. If that is the case within two years, it would be very nice for the person in question. In practice, this will not happen very often. However, these two interests are essential. Employers need to be sure that these people continue to count, and the jobs that are created really need to be used for those we have placed among the target groups. So if someone grows to the minimum wage within two years, that is very special. That won't be the order of the day. That's why I'd like to stick to those two years. Among other things, Mr Backer has asked questions about employers in the public sector. If there will be a quota levy in the future, should the government also pay? Yes. Individual employers in the public sector simply pay the quota tax to the Tax Administration when they do not comply with the quota rate. They pay this levy from their own organizational resources. For these employers, the quota levy is thus as strong an incentive as for employers in the market. Mr Beckers asked, if job vacancies filled out by the market are returned to the government, this involves a shift from employees from the market to the government. If so, how will that be taken into account? Whether this affects the numbers in both sectors depends on how the hiring is currently organised. If the government takes on hired employees, this will have no effect on the target audiences in both sectors. After all, the loan associations also count in the user sector, something that has been achieved in part by the VVD-group in the Lower House. In addition, retrieving tasks to the government is part of the freedom that both sectors have to provide for the creation of additional jobs. Moreover, the public sector must, of course, remain within the financial framework in force. These frameworks have been declining for several years, under the influence of the efforts towards a smaller government. I do not think there will be a great deal of movement from one sector to another. Questions have been asked about the division of responsibility between the Minister of State and myself. Who is ultimately responsible when it comes to the public sector? I can say that the cabinet cooperates harmoniously in realising the employment agreements in the government. The responsibility for this law lies with me. How and where the agreed additional jobs are created within the government is the responsibility of the Minister of State. I work well with the Minister of BZK and Minister Blok, who is responsible for the state service. We have appointed a driver for this, Mr Spigt. Why is there no punitive sanction? The quota levy is not a punitive sanction but a levy per unfilled job. Progressive amounts and recidivisms are in line with the system of fines and sanctions, but not within the system of levies. The quota levy is not levied because an employer acts in breach of a legal requirement. Therefore, there is no infringement within the meaning of the General Administrative Law, as a result of which an administrative body imposes an obligation on an employer to pay the quota levy. I'm getting to the fourth block. By the way, the cubes are getting thinner. I hope that helps. The fourth block deals with the target register, zero measurement and monitoring. I have just said in an interruption by Mrs Vos that the target group register is already well filled. We're in the process of getting new people in there as soon as possible. The CDA asked about the database at the UWV. Because on the basis of the information obtained so far, the CDA assumes that the database will be ready in time. Can I confirm that? Yes, because the zero measurement was carried out, which allowed us to open up the target population register. The CDA further asked whether the extension of the target group does not apply to the employment arrangements, but to the quota levy. That is not a problem, because we are just keeping our agreement with the social partners. That's what this target group was in. If the quota should be applied, we will extend the target group by agreement, at the request of the House of Representatives. This extension is made up of people who have a medical disability which arose before their 18th birthday or during a study, people who cannot earn a minimum wage without provision, but with a provision. The fifth block is about the loans. For the sake of clarity, I can say that we simply include these links in the employment agreements. We're working out quota intake right now. The Labour Party asked whether employers could set up labour pools through posting. Yes, because posting is of course also a form of helping people to work. That is exactly what we agreed in the Lower House: these people can also be included in the job agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u49	The question is, however, whether it is desirable in this case to appoint people endlessly in secondment structures. Is that really the inclusive labour market we have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u50	I may be going to say something strange, but people with disabilities are also treated in the labour market as full partners, just like everyone else in the labour market. The quota levy shall be determined by reference to the number of workers whose employer is the formal employer. Flex workers can then be counted if they are on the payroll with that employer. We also agreed that posted employees working with that employer should be included in the user employer. Yeah, they just fit in like all other employees when it comes to determining the number of jobs. The sixth block deals with the support of employers. D66 asked about harmonizing the no-riskpolis. Is that harmonised policy available on time? Yes. I have prepared a legislative proposal to harmonise the no-risk policy and the mobility policy for the target employment agreement. The Council of Ministers approved the bill last Friday, i.e. shortly. It is now before the Council of State for urgent advice. The intended date of entry into force is 1 January 2016. With good agreements within the working room with VNG, UWV, employers and employees, we have this harmonisation of the no-risk policy available on time. The SP asked, not for the first time, whether there should be a guaranteed right when it comes to instruments for employers. Then I always say that municipalities are obliged by regulation to formulate municipal policies on the deployment of work facilities, including guidance. The use of amenities is and will continue to be customised. People from the target group Participation Act are entitled to support and guidance that is necessary in the opinion of the municipality. Decisions of the municipality shall be subject to appeal and appeal. A question has been asked about privacy in relation to the target register. With this register, the progress of the job appointment can be monitored and employers at UWV can ask which of their staff is part of the target job agreement. I have already gone into this for a while; an employer must be able to show a real name and number. If an employer is looking for a candidate, he does so in order via the municipality or via UWV. Then it can also be done via werk.nl. The last block is called "other topics." There are only two of them, so that gives the citizen courage. A point of attention of D66 and the Labour Party was equal treatment. The Netherlands signed the UN Convention in 2007. The legislative proposals with which the Netherlands ratifies this treaty have now been presented by my colleague from VWS to the House of Representatives. As far as these rights are concerned, there is a progressive realisation of a society that is becoming increasingly inclusive and accessible. Since we have already signed the UN Convention, it will be checked from that point on whether it is in conformity with the Convention. That's what the Council of State did. The Council made no further comments. This has also been done in the drafting of both the Participation Act and this law. The Secretary of State of VWS will shortly send the plan of approach for the implementation of all parts to the Lower House and, I presume, also to the Upper House. To what extent does the Workroom appointment relate to giving priority to Wajangers and WSW'ers on the waiting list to the equality legislation in the early years of the employment agreement? Employers have the freedom to choose from all the people in the target group. When people from the target group can get to work, it is often on functions created for them. In these functions, they carry out tasks which they can perform despite and sometimes thanks to their limitation. So it's about customization. They are unique features for unique people. Due to these adapted functions, the "equal suitability" balance for these functions is often not considered. There is also a practical side to the priority of these groups, because the people in the Wajong and on the WSW waiting list were already known to UWV and could be placed as a group in the target list. The same goes for the other people in the WSW, but they already had a job. Unlike the people on the WSW waiting list, they are already working. That does not alter the fact that if several candidates are available for a position, employers must respect equal treatment legislation. The spokesperson of D66 asked whether positive discrimination was justified, briefly put to the fore. Yes, because the UN Disability Convention aims, for example, to allow people with disabilities to participate on an equal footing in society with people without disabilities. In this context, Article 27 of the Convention provides that Contracting States shall recognise the right of persons with disabilities to work. The Convention does not exclude differentiation in measures for people with disabilities if the difference in treatment is aimed at correcting existing differences. As people from the target group have been excluded much more often so far, the extra attention given to this group is justified. This is not contrary to the UN Disability Convention. Especially on the part of D66 and somewhat on the part of GroenLinks, attention has been paid to the question of exactly how quotas are going in Europe. The application varies from country to country. There are countries that only have a quota obligation for government, such as Ireland and Belgium, and countries that have a quota obligation for market and government, such as Germany, Austria, Spain and Italy. There are countries that do not check compliance, such as Spain and Italy, and countries that do check compliance, such as Germany and Austria. In those countries which do apply control, the employment rate of people with disabilities has increased. In Austria, this increase was 12% and in Germany, the percentage of quota places filled increased from 3.8 in 2001 to 4.5 in 2010, an increase of over 18%. That gives the citizen courage. The government assumes that the quota will contribute to the increase in the number of jobs for people with disabilities without, moreover, the entire increase due to the quota system. That is the European context of the whole. Mr Backer concluded his contribution by announcing his second-term contribution. I am going to go into that; that would be my closure. Mr Backer said he would like to draw attention to people with disabilities who want to establish themselves independently. They can, of course, encounter all kinds of problems. I very much acknowledge that. I await the contribution of the Group of the Party of European Socialists in the second term, but I would like to say that I think it is very worthwhile to sit down with the organisations involved to find out exactly what the problems are and how we could solve them all. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered the questions of all Members as exhaustively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u51	Almost. I have one more point on Europe. The essence of what struck me in the statistical material and the studies is that these things are so poorly comparable. I think it is important that we do not have to say that in two years' time. It would be nice if, for example, the SCP or another body could look systematically at this. I also asked what is the current state of the debate in Europe. Is there any discussion between colleagues on this matter? What's the status? Or is that discussion absent and perhaps something to initiate? That question had remained for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u52	I really liked the fact that Mr Backer outlined the context in his speech, including history. We have tried to use quotas in the Netherlands. I remember from the 1980s that as a young worker I was asked whether I would like to be placed under the Labour Disabled Workers' Act (WAGW). I can imagine something vividly about that. I still think it is worth looking together with the SCP to see if we could do something about this, including in the justification. I don't think that's wrong at all. That is what we must do in the international context. We have not been European about this, but what is the point? Next year, the Netherlands will be President of Europe for six months. That could be a good time to invite a few colleagues to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u53	Mr. Chairman. It is often said that the Netherlands has one of the best healthcare systems in the world. In this light, we very much regret that our health care system has not been able to prevent the President's state of health from getting worse. On behalf of our group and on behalf of our entire party, I wish the chairman strength. As a true Christian Democrat, I am very much in favour of social dialogue and the results of social dialogue, perhaps a little too optimistic. I welcome the answer given by the Secretary of State, who is almost certain that employers and employees will comply with their commitments. In this context, I am also very pleased with the drivers who have been appointed in the market sector and the collective sector. We have noted that the Secretary of State hopes that it will go so well that the quota levy will never come. That is why I no longer have any technical questions as to what the quota levy should look like. I'm assuming you're okay. With regard to the appreciation of the social agreements, I have noted the reaction of Mr Backer of D66, who spoke very positively about civil society and social dialogue. In the past I have heard more critical notes from his party. In our party I sometimes see a decline in valuation, but it is more than compensated by the increase in the appreciation of social dialogue in D66. That makes this a beautiful day for me. But it's not quite a beautiful day yet. I grew up with vicars who regularly preach about the misery, salvation and gratitude. I noticed that a number of spokesmen in the Chamber, especially from the SP and PVV, almost always stop at the misery. The misery is brought forth extensively without any hope of salvation, let alone that one could be grateful. We hope that we will be able to expect some progress from those parties in the future of the debate. With regard to labour market displacement, we assume that, if you deliberately discriminate positively against a particular target group in the labour market, this is by definition displacement. You just have to accept that and not bitch about it. I'm done with that issue. On the question of whether there should be two laws or one, the Secretary of State has convinced us. Two things in this law make it clear that employers know where they stand. The other point of discussion about whether a root is more efficient than a stick, I would like to move on to the discussion of the PvdA's motion on the performance ladder social enterprise. The government has agreed to discuss this with the Labour Foundation. However, I would ask the Secretary of State if she can guarantee that the study will be completed at the same time as the evaluation of this law, so that, as soon as one starts to evaluate, one also knows what the alternative of rewarding the sector means. On the implementation of all kinds of rules, I have sometimes raised in a debate with Minister Asscher that I am based on the statement in Ecclesiastes 6 verse 1. You shouldn't be too righteous and not too godless. I would also like to apply this idea to the implementation of requirements that can sometimes be complicated. Our Chamber is responsible for the enforcement of laws. If we are going to paint ideals with all kinds of quota fees, varied and linked to Jan and Alleman, I am glad that the high warning is that this might be dramatic for implementation. I think the First Chamber should take that into account. I am not like Mr De Lange last week. He had started the debate with a positive foundation and after the answer of the Secretary of State he had ended negatively. With me, the basic attitude has remained positive. I will try to convince my entire group to accept that basic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by saying that Mr Terpstra has apparently listened to my group's first term differently from Mr Backer. 125,000 jobs: that's not an insignificant deal. Certainly not, although it is less than was previously written down in the coalition agreement. But more importantly, the target group is much larger. That is why this agreement can only be a first step. As Senator Vos of the GroenLinks Group pointed out, there are even more vulnerable groups in the labour market. Precisely because the target group is much larger than the number of jobs in the agreement, the displacement is such a major concern of the SP Group. It is good to hear that participation and displacement are more widely monitored than just around this law. In this context, I specifically asked for competition in the first period on the basis of the cost of a necessary supply. I did not receive an answer on that point. My group also fears that competition on the basis of the cost of a supply that is necessary. May I make a suggestion to the Secretary of State? The Secretary of State was very positive in response to a motion from the House of Representatives to reward social entrepreneurship with positive social incentives. She wants to discuss that in the bosom of the cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................. Would it perhaps be a good and positive incentive, if you are going to revise the tax system, to make provision for anyone with structural functional restrictions on employment deductible for employers? It's just a thought. Then I come to the evaluation of this bill in two years' time and the commitment that has been made. I thank the Secretary of State for that commitment. The target group and its possible displacement should be the main parameters, but also the level of the levy in relation to the desired behavioural effect. To make sure that we are talking about the same thing and that we want to evaluate the same thing, I submit the next motion. The President shall: Mr Elzinga, Mr Sent, Mr Vos, Mr Reuten and Mr Ganzevoort proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of the proper functioning of the Jobs Agreement Act and its quota of labour restrictions to provide employment opportunities for people with disabilities;]] [[noting that it is necessary to be able to monitor and evaluate at an early stage the development of the various components in practice and in their interlinkages;]] [[noting that the quota regime will enter into force in 2017 at the earliest;]] [[noting that an evaluation does not produce results until at least two years of experience has been gained with the quota levy;]] [[calls on the Government, for the reasons set out above, to evaluate the present law two years after the entry into force of the quota levy, taking into account a number of aspects such as the number of additional jobs for the target group, the number of charges, the level of the levy in relation to the behavioural effect and the possible displacement in relation to the target group definition, and to inform the two chambers of the results of this review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. Kst-33981-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u55	I would like to hear from Mr Elzinga whether, if this motion is adopted, he is able to advise his group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u56	There are still a few points. I had prepared another motion, but we were given a commitment on that point. With the commitments and the final reaction to this motion, our concerns are not gone, but we do have the opportunity to discuss those concerns seriously in the evaluation. These are certainly matters I will take with me and I would like to discuss with my group. I must say that under these circumstances, perhaps, the good should not suffer from the better, as Mr Backer said. Let me finish my speech. We are not yet at the end of the debate. We are also going to wait for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u57	You only have two seconds to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u58	I'll be very strict, Mr. Chairman. I had prepared another motion on the smaller employers, but I noted a very clear commitment from the Secretary of State on this point. It will engage companies with fewer than 25 employees through a targeted campaign and actively encourage them to employ people from the target group register and to make use of all the facilities that apply to this target group to achieve additional jobs. A brief confirmation of this is sufficient. I look forward to the response to my motion and my suggestion for the tax plan. Then we'll see about it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u59	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for her reply. It has dealt with a number of issues which are of great importance to us. However, we maintain the fundamental problem of the labour market in the Netherlands. If we fail to open up the labour market more to low-skilled people, people with disabilities, the elderly and people with an ethnic background, then it will be very difficult to achieve some of the objectives of the Secretary of State, whom we wholeheartedly support. That's gonna be hard for us. We would very much like to see the cabinet work even more vigorously in terms of the structural exclusion of a number of groups in our labour market, including by creating more jobs. It would help to invest more in reintegration and training. This has been done on a much larger scale in the past and more intensively than is happening today. We find it strange that, at a time when it is really incredibly difficult in the labour market, and it remains bad for a number of years, especially for vulnerable groups, there is no investment in reintegration and training. Isn't it really a matter of doing that more than the Secretary of State just indicated? I just mentioned all the numbers. The amounts we are currently investing in this are really much lower than in 2002, 2005 and 2007. I like to hold on to that point. Secretary of State, do your best! The Secretary of State has given us a number of answers that we are pleased with. We are very pleased with the commitment of an evaluation in two years' time. That seems to us to be extremely important. That may also be the moment when a number of matters on which we have doubts are on the table. Is the levy going to work? Is it high enough? Is the target audience the right one? And so there are more questions to ask. I think that's a good time to take a critical look at whether we can do better. It has not completely become clear to me whether the Secretary of State sees any possibility of broadening the target group. Maybe we can do that now. Maybe we can do that later. She did say what happened in the House of Representatives on this point, but many groups asked for a broader look at it. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is discussing the current state of the register, because it is difficult to do so. All existing people are in it, but we should not leave the new influx in the cold. I'm glad the Secretary of State is going to look into that. If there are any interesting points to be made, I would ask her to inform the Chamber. I would very much appreciate that. I understand that the weighted quota may also be included in the evaluation in the future. Mr Backer also spoke about this. Then there is another point that I think the Secretary of State may not have fully understood. If someone on the target list is hired, that's wonderful. The employer invests, the person does his best and things are getting better. At some point the employee may be able to earn the minimum wage on his own. He'll be taken off the list after two years. I fear, and the people themselves, that the employer might say: sorry, you were here because you were on that quota list and now I have to find someone else because otherwise I will not meet the obligations. I would think that would be a perverse consequence of this quota provision. That's my concern. That is why I asked the Secretary of State if she could leave those people on that target register a little longer, even though they are now able to earn the minimum wage on their own. Can these people stay on the register for five years? I also welcome the answer on the no-riskpolis. That's just gonna happen, because the Secretary of State's gonna take care of it. Thank you for that. I will propose to my group that we vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u60	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering a number of questions. For my group, it is central to the fact that the large group of people with reduced working hours is facing a serious fundamental problem. The distance to the regular labour market cannot be bridged by itself, if this would be a real option at all. The labour market is in a declining position, both in terms of size and job characteristics. The big question is whether this quota law provides a solution to this huge, possibly too big, policy challenge. It should be noted, however, that the government itself has faced this challenge with the Participation Act. My group has to note that the instruments of this quota law are not sufficient. The voluntary nature of the job agreement is difficult to translate into real jobs. The willingness of employers is too low. The choice to pay the fine, if it is already imposed, is made easy. The necessary consultations to activate the quota levy seem to be getting bogged down in poaching. The result of all this is that the group to do it is between the Participation Act and the quota law falls into a dark hole. The Secretary of State can't take away our concerns about that. The question is whether tools such as job carving can bridge the gap to the regular labour market, apart from all the various autonomous changes in the labour market. Faith in the feasibility of the labour market artificial jobs are missing from my group, no matter how sympathetic we might find it. The Secretary of State hasn't been able to convince us. The dynamics of the labour market are at odds with all the well-intentioned plans of this cabinet. Basically, it cannot be the case that a vulnerable group suffers from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u61	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering a number of questions. I noticed that the contributions of most members of this Chamber were extremely critical, while the answers of the Secretary of State were extremely optimistic. That tension field won't be solved tonight. In fact, today's debate reminded my group most of pushing against a rubber wall, which immediately returns to its original position as soon as you stop pushing. As far as we are concerned, today's debate can be extended to the graveyard of unfulfilled expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u62	Mr. Chairman. I realize that after the previous interruption, I have something to make up for in time. I'll try that, too. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the detailed reply. There were many questions and good answers about the target group, the displacement and the no-riskpolis. Not satisfactory to me is the Secretary of State's argument about the quota section. Some things you have to learn to live with, and I'll put this on that list. She hasn't been able to convince me, and apparently I haven't been able to convince her either. I have two more points on which I would like further information in order to convince my group. We have talked about people who belong to the target group, people about whom information can be given, but that information is very limited. You have said that the employer can get information when the bsn is known. My question was more focused on people applying. These people are not on the employer's payroll and they cannot indicate it. He can only ask for further information about this unknown target person who applies for a job in the company. The question is then very specific: what information can be provided by the UWV to the employer without violating privacy? The employer needs this in order to provide good training and good guidance. We have also had a small discussion about whether or not the levy will enter into force if there is no candidate. I have heard the Secretary of State say that this may be a matter of consultation. The employer has done his best to create suitable jobs for people with disabilities, but cannot find suitable people in the market. If I may put it this way: the employer should not be penalised; at that point the quota levy is a matter of consultation. I'd like to hear that confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u63	Thank you, Mr Beckers. It is insanely nice that you have actually completed it within the three minutes you have given up. Beautiful!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u64	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the fine answer to our questions. In particular, my group sees profits in the employment agreement from the social agreement for people with disabilities. In order to ensure that companies actually comply with the agreement, a quota levy has been agreed. We welcome the clarity provided by the present legislative proposal on the design of that quota levy. In the first period we asked a number of questions about this. How, for example, do you guarantee that all companies feel attracted to their responsibility for the collective agreement and make an effort to do so? In its response, the Secretary of State explained how this will be shaped. Another question we asked in the first period was whether it would be more economically profitable for all companies to hire people from the target group than to pay the levy of €5,000. The Secretary of State has indicated that she does not share these concerns with us. We would prefer to see the quota levy being unnecessary by actively encouraging employers to assume their own responsibilities. If it proves necessary, then we consider the evaluation requested by Mr Elzinga in the motion we have signed to be essential. Another question concerns consistency with other legislation, as discussed in the first term. For example, it has been agreed in the law that the quota levy does not apply to small businesses. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has indicated that these small businesses will indeed be encouraged to take on their responsibilities. With the new law, jobs will be created for specific target groups. For us, it is particularly important that this law is in line with the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities in letter and spirit. It should also be possible for employers to offer these jobs to the target group in line with equal treatment legislation. That point was also brought in by D66. The Secretary of State has assured us that this is the case. More generally, in the first term, we have called for attention to be paid to discrimination, exclusion and stigmatisation in the labour market. With the Secretary of State, we believe that the cabinet must act hard in this respect; it is important to counter this. I'm rounding up. The PvdA is a strong supporter of a more inclusive labour market and believes that the present legislative proposal can take an important step in the right direction. With D66, the PvdA does not want the good to fall victim to the better, and can vote for the law if the evaluation of the motion proves the commitment to achieve the good. We are particularly looking forward to the State Secretary's assessment of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. At the heart of the proposal is that stakeholders sometimes need an incentive to find each other. The Secretary of State undoubtedly thought: I am putting that into practice today. Nevertheless, satisfactory answers have been received to questions from colleagues, but above all to the questions I have put myself on points which are relevant to my group. Thank you for the commitment to the Social and Cultural Planning Office. It is good that we have a compass in following policy intentions, especially within the next two years. We look positively at the evaluation supported by a motion. I will give my group a positive opinion on this. Thank you for taking the initiative to hold discussions on this issue at EU level, whether within the framework of the European Presidency or not. That seems to me to be a good thing; we can then learn from each other. I would like to comment on the bonus-malus debate. I know my colleagues Bröcker and Essers who always warn about fiscal instrumentalism, and as a member of the Finance Committee, I must do my duty to warn against that. On the other hand, the idea is good and it comes up again in the tax review. The Secretary of State has already dealt with the issue of the self-employed. We believe it is important that the obstacles that exist to establish yourself independently, whether or not with other colleagues, are identified as much as possible and reduced, mitigated or resolved as much as possible. We believe that self-employment can really be an option from a positive point of view. There are obstacles to working from benefit. There are barriers to a level playing field in procurement. There are several barriers in the working regions, there are likely to be credit barriers and barriers in hours. It would be nice if the Secretary of State, in consultation with a number of organisations, in particular client organisations such as Each, the National Platform GGz, the association OLG and the Normal Cause, would develop a multi-annual programme to see how this can be identified, but above all how the obstacles can be overcome with the ultimate goal of this law: participation. If I could get a genuine commitment on this, to use a word I hear from the Secretary of State more often, I would probably be able to pull my group over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. Once again, I thank the members of the Chamber, in this case for the second term. I note that a limited number of questions have been put to me. I'm just gonna finish the list, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u67	Can you finish that at 7:30?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u68	Yes, I think that should be easy, since there are not too many interruptions, but we have to wait and see. I shall begin with Mr Terpstra, who has spoken eloquently about misery, salvation and gratitude, which I recognize in his own eyes. He actually asked me only one question, which related to the motion adopted on the other side of the Binnenhof, about the performance ladder and social entrepreneurship. His request to me is to ensure that the research results resulting from that motion can be taken up if the evaluation of this law is to be discussed. I will do my utmost to achieve that. Then I come to Mr Elzinga. He finds it pleasurable that we not only look at the target group covered by this law, but also more broadly at who is knocking on the door of municipalities and what that all means. He stressed, like Mr Ester, who is not here in this second term, but certainly in the spirit of Mr Ester, that a positive incentive in the tax plan would be a good idea. I also heard Mr Backer correctly. Indeed, it is also wise to look at the bonus and the malus in the context of the renewal of the tax plan and how to shape the balance between them. That does not alter the fact that you can also look very closely at this kind of thing. I have already brought it to the attention of my colleague in the finance department. If the new tax plan is on the table in the cabinet, I will take a look at it myself. Then I come to the motion tabled by Mr Elzinga and others. After the quota has entered into force, it is requested to evaluate how it has worked out after two years. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I think it is indeed a good idea to look at how this instrument works. That's just added value. I agree that good should not suffer from the better. That is the leitmotiv of this debate, I believe. The smaller employers were brought to the attention of Mr Beckers in his first term. I also think it is a great added value to work with SMEs in the Netherlands to see how we can get something on it, in the sense of a campaign to bring the job deal to the attention of smaller employers as well. That's fine. Then I come to Mrs Vos' second term contribution. It has, of course, once again put forward, I would almost say that it is not just this group that needs to be looked at, but all the groups that are vulnerable in the labour market. I'll repeat that after her. The Cabinet does the same. Of course, there must be investment in training and in mentoring people. I said mine in the first term. It is important that this wage cost subsidy does not come from the P-part, because that really helps. I would like to say to GroenLinks that before the summer I will inform the Chambers about the progress made in filling the target population register. Then we need to have insight into how that takes place and where possible hiccups can be found. Before the summer, I would like to inform both Chambers about this. Mrs. Vos' last question was why I chose for two years. I have tried to put that right in the first term. It is, of course, fantastic when people develop and ultimately earn the minimum wage. It may not be a perverse incentive for the employer to say, "That's it" to someone who can earn the minimum wage. I've looked around me, too. I see that people develop with an employer. If they are invested in them and they see a return, then a social employer does not think: that was it, now I can kick him out on the street, because he is no longer a target group. That does not happen with the average social employer, I can report. It is essential, however, that we maintain the number of guarantee jobs. That is a dilemma, because you want those 125,000 places to end up there and not some of those places to be occupied long or longer by people who are able to earn the legal minimum wage. That's the dilemma. I suggest we start from two years after all. Maybe we can involve that in the monitoring, see how often this happens. Mr Kok notes that he cannot agree to this law. Of course, I find that sad. My question then remains: what or how? I know that the PVV was able to agree with the Working Act as it stood, which was a lot draconier and did not carry 175 000 jobs. But it's no different. I also hear that Mr De Lange compares me with a rubber wall. That hasn't happened to me before. I'd almost say noted. That's special. It is a pity that Mr De Lange and his group cannot embrace this law. Mr Beckers, from his group and from the history that we share now, remains concerned that the quota remains somewhere in a drawer. I think that Mr Beckers and I share the same conviction about the social agreement. Mr Terpstra spoke of this very nicely. In the social agreement, employers and employees argued that the employment agreement was one thing, but that the quota was also maintained. I'll keep those appointments. They're also in the coalition agreement. I listened very carefully to Mr Beckers. For him too: a man, a man, a word, a word, just as for the employers and employees in the social agreement. He did ask the question about the target group register. Just so we're clear, that register only indicates if someone belongs to the target group. In that register people who cannot earn a minimum wage on their own; who are Wajanger, are on the waiting list for an SW company or ID'er or WIW'er. At the UWV, the employer can find out whether someone who knocks on his door belongs to the target group. To that end, the register is on earth. It's that simple, actually. It has also been asked whether there can be consultation if we have to apply that quota and say, as an employer, I have done my best, but I cannot find any candidates. I have already said in my first term that I think that if employers make places, they will fill those places in close consultation with UWV and municipalities. I also assume, in fact, that it would be their honor for municipalities and UWV not to fill those places. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. That's the way it should be. I heard Mr Beckers clearly. That consultation will always have to be there to put the right man in the right place from all sides. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u69	I have one more question for clarification, if that's all right. You say that there must be consultation on the implementation of the function. That is the case anyway. If the person concerned is not qualified or if there is no applicant at all, the employer should not be fined a quota charge for the shortage of completed places and should therefore pay €5,000. If you are unaware of this and the employer still has to pay that quota levy, you run the risk that people will sue for it. The first procedure won will be an example for others. I urge you to make it possible for the quota levy for an employer not to enter into force if it has done its utmost to set up jobs for people who are limited in their working capacities, but cannot then find a suitable person. I would ask you, then, to have some kind of hardness clause put into effect. Otherwise, you'll end up on a downward line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u70	I think it would be a good idea for us to exchange the fact that this job deal is a macro agreement. All jobs count, including those of smaller employers. If the deal isn't made, so only then, the quota comes off. Then we also have the safety valves I just mentioned, in the sense that we go into conclave to see where the bottlenecks are. There are really many premises in Mr Beckers' speech which must first be coloured in. If so, the interaction with UWV and municipalities will be very important for the employer in question. I am very keen to say this again. The creation of a labour market region means that employers can find the people who can be placed on the spot. Let us all say at the moment that we have full confidence in that. I have that genuinely, because I speak to employers and I see what they do. I also speak to the UWV and the municipalities. I was gonna end up with this, but I'm just gonna say it now. The people who are involved are eager. They're so eager to participate in society. They don't want to be on the sidelines anymore. They want to see this inclusive society so badly. So let us make full progress to ensure that the labour market is included. That's really essential. Let's all be excited about that. I call on Mr Beckers to do the same. I know he does, by the way, because I know him longer than I do today. That's okay. I come to Mrs Sent's contribution. It has also emphasised the inclusive labour market and said that it considers the social agreement to be a big profit. It is pleasing that this regulation provides clarity about the design. Mrs. Sent hasn't asked me any more questions. Last but not least, I come to Mr Backer's questions. I think it is worth looking with the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau at the wider context and the European context. I already said that in my first term. I have taken note of instrumentalism in the context of bonuses and maluses. I have already said that I think it is an added value to identify the obstacles for self-employed people with interest representatives such as Elke(in), De Normale Zaken and GGZ Nederland. They know what they are doing, and they can make good parts of it. Thank you for pointing this out again. I come to the end of my speech. With everything I have in me, I would like to say once again that I am truly pleased that the vast majority of your Chamber can now accept that the inclusive labour market is being helped a step further. I say this very carefully, because I know you have a week to go. If something is real, it is that not only the pavements in this country are being bevelled off for people with disabilities, but also that the labour market is becoming much more passable. That drives me, and that is what has driven all the spokesmen in this debate. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-7.u71	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on this bill and on the motion.
