ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Law on Temporary Toll Blankenburg Connection and ViA15, which we are discussing today, is the legal basis for tolling these two new connections. The PVV Group fully understands the Minister's desire to speed up road infrastructure projects. These are very much needed to tackle the traffic jams. Over the past year, all traffic jams together provided a cost of no less than EUR 655 to 852 million, the transport sector announced yesterday. However, the method of financing these projects is a different one. The Minister indicated that the funds within the infrastructure fund were insufficient to finance the ViA15 and Blankenburg connections fully with public money and that there was still no clarity about an extension of the infrastructure fund. Tolling on these routes would therefore be necessary. However, the Minister also states in the reply that "the levy may not be levied if an additional contribution equal to the tolling of the project is made from the different regions. So far, however, I have found no willingness to do so among the regional parties." This indicates that tolling is not an absolute necessity, but above all the consequence of political choices in the use of resources at national and regional level. It is not the case that there are no potential financing options. After all, the provinces still have billions of resources available from the sale of energy companies. On 3 November last, the CBS announced that the province of Gelderland has an equity of EUR 4.7 billion. In principle, therefore, the toll for the ViA15 project in that province could easily be covered. The project also benefits the province of Gelderland. The new ViA15 bridge relieves the provincial road N325 near Arnhem. We certainly appreciate the contribution made by the regional partners to these national road projects. However, it would be better, including for the regions, if these projects could be carried out without tolls. That is why I ask the Minister whether it is not necessary to look for a willingness on the part of the province to finance this toll. Then this unnecessary, complex system of tolling can still be abandoned. Motorists already pay motor tax. On top of that, the provincial capitals will be increased. So the motorist already pays a big bill to the government, EUR 20 billion a year. This can finance the road infrastructure. Extra tolling would be triple-up. Instead of spending this money on our own roads, it is now spent on motorways in the Western Balkans, such as Albania and Bosnia, among other things, through EU payments. In this context, the European Commission has allocated as much as EUR 1 billion to these countries over the next five years, as so-called pre-accession aid. And then Turkey, which even receives EUR 220 million from the EU from our taxpayers' money for the construction of rail infrastructure in the framework of the TEN-T transport corridors. In the meantime, our own national infrastructure fund has been exhausted, and the motorist can pay for this with the current toll. To get back to the possible contribution from the region, the increase in vehicle tax is used by the provinces not one-on-one for the financing of road infrastructure, but as a general means of cover. As a result, the motorist is the milk cow for the left-wing hobbies, such as the spilly subsidies to dummy elite parties, climate crap and Islam-facilitating migrant organisations. If a motorway is already financed, it is only the so-called green highway of the main ecological structure. As far as PVV is concerned, it is on its head that the revenue from the increases does not go directly to road infrastructure. For this reason, it is always argued that the increases would never be intended as a target tax. Opcents were originally a target tax, set in 1965 to feed a Rijkswegenfonds. It was not until the early 1980s that the increases as an administrative allowance towards the provinces became a general tax resource. The question is whether it is desirable for provincial directors to be able to continue to claim the increase in motor vehicle tax as a general means of charging or whether, in view of the problems of financing road infrastructure projects, they should again be regarded as a target tax. I'd like a response from the Minister. Administrative agreements have been concluded with the regions. The management agreement on the ViA15 includes the following in Article 9 (2): "In case of setbacks in the estimated tolopbrensten parten Rijk and the province of Gelderland the costs thereof, with the province of Gelderland doing so for a maximum amount of €60 million. In doing so, Rijk and the province of Gelderland together bear half the risk of up to 120 million euros. Above that, the Empire guarantees." How can the Minister reconcile this provision with the nature of the legislative proposal before us, on the basis that the toll decision is at least withdrawn, at the latest when the net revenue is equal to the tolls? When can there be disappointing toll revenues? I'd like a response from the Minister. In a supplementary management agreement signed last November for the ViA15 between the Dutch Empire and the province of Gelderland, measures were included in the realization, subject to windfalls. This concerns non-priority measures around the project, such as integration of pools, hiking trails and cycle paths. This means that the motorist, through the tolling system, may be able to pay for measures not covered by the Trace decision. Why was it not chosen to use these possible windfalls to further limit tolling? I'd like a response from the Minister. In view of the above-mentioned alternative potential financing options, it is bizarre that the Minister should go back on the tolling method. It is not for nothing that all the empires were abolished in 1900 and the municipal tolls in 1953. Toll tax is a complex system and the motorist already pays through the vehicle tax and the increase. The extension of tolls in the Netherlands is therefore undesirable, especially if the Minister objects at the same time to the introduction of a German toll vignette. Should we see this bill as another step in the expansion of road tolls on the Dutch roads? Is the Dutch motorist perhaps being harassed again in the future with plans for toll gates? Hundreds of millions of euros are currently being spent on creating expensive ecoducts. Do motorists perhaps have to pay a toll to drive under an ecoduct? In the explanatory memorandum, the Minister concludes that the road user is not liable to VAT on the tolls to be collected because the toll is levied in order to carry out a public task. Can the Minister confirm that this will remain the case for the entire tolling exercise and that the tolling charge will never be transferred to a private company subject to VAT, as is the case with the Westerschelde tunnel? I'd like a confirmation from the Minister. Our group is also concerned about the payment possibilities that will be developed within the framework of the implementation plan to be drawn up. It is still unclear whether there can be no legal inequality between Dutch and foreign drivers if the latter do not pay their toll bill. Although the Minister states that the bill provides for the possibility of monitoring the network with the possibility to maintain motor vehicles and to issue a direct administrative penalty to the driver if he has not paid a toll. However, the question is to what extent this system is feasible and feasible in practice. At least it doesn't seem to be a watertight system. I'd like a response from the Minister. The complexity of the payment system for this toll is similar to the provincial road payment card used until 1940 only in the province of Noord-Brabant to finance the provincial roads. This applied only to certain provincial roads and non-residents had to obtain a separate fifteen-day card from a municipal office. A complicated and annoying system, which caused a lot of confusion and thus a rain of minutes. There is a good chance that in 2015, the free-flow toll system with online user registration and with payment options in advance and afterwards will be at least as confusing. Even now, a great deal of fine revenue could be collected. In 1914 it even reached the newspaper when a member of this First Chamber, Mr. Van Lanschot, got a report because he had gone on the Brabant provincial roads without a road map. More than a century later, it will be waiting for the first current Member of Parliament to complain in the newspaper about a fine for accidentally forgetting to pay when passing the Blankenburg tunnel or the A15. That's why it's better to turn halfway around now than to go all the way astray. The PVV is pleased that the building of the Blankenburg tunnel and the extended A15 can finally take off. However, it remains a bridge too far that motorists who already pay so much car tax and increase also have to pay a toll.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, congratulations on your birthday. But that's not what I'm here for. I'm here today for the tolling for the Blankenburg tunnel and the ViA15. The Minister is proposing to take a toll on these roads. It has gathered money from the Infrastructure Fund through the provinces, but the remaining 720 million has to be paid by toll. Actually, this amount is 602 million, but the implementation costs also amount to 118 million. By the way, that's about 20%. For several reasons, my group thinks it is a bad idea to introduce tolls. The most important one is right away: we believe that roads must be paid out of the general budget. Everyone pays for it and everyone can use it. If a road is needed, then we have to make sure it gets there. If we can't afford that, we have to save up for it. The royal road to build roads is by prioritizing them in the MIRT. If a road is high enough on that list, it will be built. Apparently, these roads ended up under the saw line, so they weren't important enough. However, in her reply, this minister points out that the public considers these roads to be very necessary and that they should therefore be there. But apparently this wasn't enough to put them higher on that priority list. You can also argue that there's something else going on. 'Cause where can you actually charge a toll? One condition is that there should be a free alternative. But in her reply in the plenary debate on the other side, the Minister said that there should not be too many, because that is bad for price elasticity. In other words, if there are too many possibilities to circumvent them, no one will use the toll roads. Therefore, no toll was finally introduced on the A13/A16 route. So the regions where the Blankenburg tunnel and the ViA15 lie are just unlucky. There are few possibilities to avoid the toll road and that is why this toll is being introduced. That reeks, as far as I'm concerned, of money-off-the-bag-knocking. It wouldn't have to be on her own budget. After all, this Minister has negotiated well in the Council of Ministers, because she has managed to raise her budget from 6.6 billion to 7.9 billion. If a road gets under that saw line, there can be only two things going on: either the road is not very necessary, and you can postpone a construction decision until you have money, or you want to transfer a substantial part of it to the users, and then there is something unfair going on. Because how do you explain to the residents that they do, and residents from other regions do not have to pay for their own roads? Has this minister been guided by the wishes of local residents and sought a way of meeting them more quickly? Because she says that the region is so shy about it. Yet that does not seem to be the case. Although business insists on the alleged necessity, residents and environmental and natural organisations, such as Natural Monuments and the Natural and Environmental Federation of South Holland, are seriously concerned about noise pollution and pollution, and speak out against the road. Also local authorities were not in favour of the Blankenburg tunnel, and several MPs were reported in protests, including even from the coalition. Moreover, a study carried out by the ANWB in 2013 showed that motorists reject tolls in the construction of new roads. They would therefore prefer not to drive there, rather than to put even more money on top of excise duties, vehicle taxes or road taxes. Another argument to be against toll is that there is still much unclear. The previous speaker also mentioned this. The Minister has not yet been able to indicate how to ensure that tolls are also paid for cars coming from countries with which the Netherlands does not have an exchange of registration data. By the way, that's a word for Galgje or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u4	Scrabble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u5	However, enforcement is mentioned. Then a fine could be written immediately, but everyone knows that the chance of getting caught is very small. Thus, the Romanian driver can drive on these roads for free, and residents will pay the top price. Finally, it appears that tolling is not made easy. If you use the road, you have to report it to the Internet in advance or afterwards. If you do not do so in time, you will receive a fine of €7, on top of the amount of €1,18. If that goes wrong, an administrative fine of €35 will be added. For example, road users in these two regions are entitled to a total of 720 million. I would also like to point out that this toll is also coming very early. After all, the views have just been submitted. The decision on the construction of roads is therefore not entirely clear either. My group is not just going to let this raving plan go through with an approval stamp. I would also like to say something about the desirability of both ways. In the opinion of the SP Group, exactly the wrong choices have been made here. As far as the Blankenburg tunnel is concerned, the choice of SP falls on the Orange variant. We're not alone in this. Many citizens and organisations are against the Blankenburg tunnel and for the Orange tunnel. Local authorities are also concerned about the Green Heart. The impact on the environment is great because of the recreation area at Vlaardingen, and not least this will also mean the end of the Volksbos in which my party colleague and former MP Remi Poppe played a major role. After all, in the 1980s an industrial waste ring was located in this place, which was stopped because over 8,000 people were able to plant 16,000 trees in no time. It was renamed the Volksbos. People still recreate and let their dog out. Not only for this purpose, the Blankenburg tunnel is planned in the wrong place, but also because the tunnel will create many bottlenecks elsewhere on the road network, such as on Kethelplein. After all, traffic gets back together, and that's where it gets stuck. If we really want to be of service to the people in the Rijnmond region, then we choose the Orange variant. This really makes a new connection, and this opening would also be very beneficial for the Westland. The ViA15 has a slightly different story. This should not, as far as we are concerned, be built at all. The road is poorly fitted and is now constructed on the roof of the Betuweline. This line has been deepened to save the environment, but then we put a highway on top. It shouldn't get weirder. Either the entire Betuwe line could have been above ground, which is not our preference, or the ViA15 should have been under underground, but it is reported to be too expensive. Then I say: let us save a little while if we really need to. My group believes that roads should be properly fitted, if you are already getting started. In the House of Representatives there have already been heated debates on these issues. I would very much like to give this Minister the opportunity to clarify and look forward with interest to her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you. I now press the bell to announce that a maiden speech will now be held. I call Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. The title of the coalition chord is: Bridging Bridges. Given the composition of this Chamber, we see the cabinet every day trying to build bridges between opposition and coalition. And fortunately, they often succeed in doing so. There's nothing wrong with building bridges. I will not be told that, given my past, I am not just talking about non-physical bridges. By the way, bridges only succeed if you are not in charge of a tunnel vision. It is very special for me to have my maiden speech in this house today about a bill that is in all kinds of ways related to my political past. First of all, I remember vividly a debate in the Lower House with then CDA Minister Maij-Weggen, at a time when my party was in opposition and the House of Representatives had to decide whether it could agree to a shadow toll, with which the tunnels under De Noord and the Wijkertunnel would be financed. For those colleagues who do not know the system: shadow toll is an amount per passage paid to the financier not by the motorist but by the state. I strongly opposed that at the time. Not against the tunnels, but against the then far too expensive funding in my view. Unfortunately, I was right. If I may believe Wikipedia, at the end of the 30 years in which shadow toll is paid, we have deposited EUR 1 billion for a financing of EUR 278 million. That it would be so much, I didn't realize at the time, because I would have gone even harder. I think the then government parties, PvdA and CDA, would have scratched behind the ears if they had known. I also think that the Minister agrees with me that we should never make these kind of jokes again, no matter how pleasant it is that those two tunnels are there. Perhaps the Minister would like to comment briefly on this. Fortunately, the draft law before us is of a completely different nature. Besides, I have to say that I don't really like tunnels at all. I think you should only build them if there's really no other way to do it. Under the Nieuwe Waterweg and under the Meuse, you can honestly imagine anything because of the marines. That is my second reminder, because both the Betuweroute and the HSL have in the end built quite a lot of tunnels, on which I had to negotiate with stakeholders at the time. By the way, it was never the travelers you negotiated with, but always the neighbors and other representatives of interest. It is a pity that so many times there is no support for a beautiful, real Dutch bridge. In that context, I would like to congratulate the Minister on the fact that the ViA15 is simply going to pass the Pannerdens Channel with a beautiful bridge. Good for the beautiful view of the motorist. In fact, I think it is more ecologically responsible than putting a tunnel next to it. The VVD Group has assessed whether temporary toll can be defended in this case. We have reached a positive conclusion. An important criterion is first of all whether there is alternative funding. As far as we can judge, there is no such thing, unless you want to delete other infra-projects, and we feel no such thing. It is at least as important that Mrs Meijer also states whether there are free alternatives and in both cases there are. Alternatively for the ViA15 is the A12 and for the Blankenburg tunnel the Benelux tunnel. This means that people can always choose the free alternative. In some cases, they have to detour or be in front of traffic. That's the choice. Then there has been a lot of discussion in the Lower House about paying by foreign road users and especially about whether they can be fined if they would not pay. The Minister made good agreements across the street, so I'm not going to say too much about that. However, I would like to broaden this discussion a little. Is it not high time that the transport ministers, as a collective in Brussels, were committed to real freedom of movement? I do not mean that countries should no longer be allowed to charge tolls. As long as that is non-discriminatory, so everyone pays off and the revenue for the infrastructure is not, in itself, very much against it. But why are all these systems totally incompatible or compatible with each other? If I go through Austria to Italy, I have to pay with a different ticket than in Italy itself. And if I accidentally go through France, yes, of course you never do, but still there is another system. And if you're unlucky, you'll have two systems in France. Not to mention Spain. They all do it differently. And all countries are also in the process of developing systems that stop us from stopping. With all the technological developments of today, it should be possible to ensure that there is either a single harmonised payment system or that passes can be used everywhere? I also think that this would make the problem of the collection of foreign road users much simpler. Perhaps governments can learn something from banks. There is not much to learn from this, but at least in this area they have a better place for each other. Or perhaps there is even something to learn from the now quite advanced parking systems. I would be very grateful if this Minister, whom I know as extremely powerful and influential, would once again use her influence on this subject in Brussels. Finally. I hope that the cabinet succeeds in building beautiful bridges in the near future. You will understand that I am personally very interested in a beautiful, real bridge somewhere between Almere and Amsterdam, but I do not mean it in a physical sense. I see this minister constantly doing so, for example in the Environment Act, but I hope that the cabinet in this Chamber will succeed in doing so in the next few weeks, and I hope, of course, that there will not be a tunnel vision that is in the way of all the parties involved. The Dutch are eventually bridge builders and must remain both physically and diplomatically above all!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. You are already walking away, but I would ask you to stand still. Mrs Jorritsma, congratulations on your maiden speech. For many Members of Parliament, it is a political milestone to be able to address the Chamber for the first time in a plenary session. I'm sure it'll be a special moment for you, too, but I don't expect you to be nervous. You've been in the Binnenhof for 33 years, so you know the blows of the whip like no other. We have come to know you over the years as a passionate politician who speaks plain language. Your political career began in 1978, when you became a city councilman at Bolsward. In 1982 you made the transition to national politics and became a member of the House of Representatives. Here you were spokesperson for traffic and water and education, but you also dealt with land-use planning, housing and emancipation policy. For that last topic, emancipation, you have also worked within the Chambers themselves as chairman of the Chamberwide Women's Conference, an informal consultation of women members of the First and Second Chambers, which aims to strengthen the position of women in parliament. Over the years, you've been committed to emancipation. Just yesterday it was announced that you are going to lead the topvrouwen.nl database. I'm going back to the nineties. In 1994 you were appointed Minister of Transport and Water State in the first cabinet of Kok. For your decisive approach to the improvement of river dikes, you were awarded the Jacoba of Bavaria Prize in 1997. In the second cabinet of Kok, you became Minister of Economic Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister. Together with Els Borst, you were the first female deputy prime minister ever. In 2002 you returned to the Lower House for a short time, as spokesperson for social affairs. In early 2003 you became acting mayor of Delfzijl. The mayor's office turned out to suit you perfectly and a few months later you became mayor of Almere. In an interview, you said that it particularly appealed to you that a mayor is closer to the people than a minister or a MP. You would be the first mayor to organize speeddate sessions with citizens and present your own television programme on RTL Z. But not only mayorship, but also the young, spacious and free Almere appealed to you greatly. It became your home, where you live to this day. From 2008 onwards, you combined your duties as mayor with the presidency of the Association of Dutch Municipalities. During the massive decentralisation and austerity of recent years, you were an important liaison between the municipalities and the cabinet. The decentralisations supported you wholeheartedly, but you have repeatedly argued for greater financial autonomy from municipalities. It gave you the nickname "the protector of the local interest" and an appointment as honorary chairman of the VNG at your departure in June this year. That same month you returned to the Binnenhof, where as a member of this house you are actively involved in the legislative process. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber and suspend the sitting to allow colleagues and myself to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. I am speaking today on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. A tunnel of EUR 1.1 billion and a toll of EUR 316 million. In itself there is every reason to talk about this, but that is rather premature. This debate is too early for our groups. I like to support that statement by going back in time and taking time for it. In 1989, the inhabitants of Maassluis, Maasland and Vlaardingen were alarmed by the fact that in the products of a cheese farm on the Zuidbuurt an alarmingly high dioxin level was measured. The pastures in which the cows grazed were covered by the smoke of the Waste Processing Rijnmond and the combustion furnaces of Akzo in Rotterdam-Zuid. The dioxin from those incinerators fell down in the Lickebaert area. That is the area that the Blankenburg tunnel should now pass, we know with the knowledge of today. Before we discuss this further, I think it would be a good idea to consider the history of the plagued area first. I've been up close to it, so I can tell you about it firsthand. The cheese farm in the area was closed, the milk and hay were no longer allowed to enter trade and had to be disposed of to the Waste Processing Rijnmond, which burned it after which the dioxin dropped again in the Lickebaert area, after which the milk and hay had to be burned again. The perfect cycle, you'd say, if it weren't so cynical. Fortunately, so you can say, part of the area was no longer used for agriculture, but was furnished as a recreation area. This made the dioxin stroke a slightly less serious problem, because the recreants did not eat grass. It wasn't a good idea, though. In order to give a slightly more favourable vote to the population after the dioxin scandal, the provincial government decided to build a 30 meter high ski mound in the middle of the recreation area, from which the residents of the surrounding places could ski summer and winter. It was a proposal that the neighbors reacted rather lukewarmly to. The Lickebaert as a ski resort was not taken for granted by many people, but many objections were not against it either. Until in 1991 some attentive citizens wondered how to realize a 30 meter high hill in a completely flat polder. With apparent reluctance, representatives of the province and recreation admitted that this was not such a self-evident operation, but that there were quite a few contaminated portslib and construction and demolition waste for which no proper destination could actually be found and that it was decided to fill the ski hill with it. That was also part of a yield scenario. It's just a poison dump that's gonna pay off. Of that money, that ski mound could be realized. We are talking about a time when win-win situations and public-private collaboration seemed like the new stones of the sages. There was no need to worry. The landfill would be carefully covered and in so far as there would be percolation or drainage of the soil, the toxins would be collected in a reservoir under the landfill and disposed of to the Waste Processing Rijnmond. This also allowed this cycle to come all the way around again and the smoke of the burnt toxins could crash again in the Lickebaert area. Until 1994, there was a trade ban on milk and sheep meat from the area and waste disposal Rijnmond had to install 240 million guilder filters to collect dioxin and other toxins, indicating how serious the pollution had apparently been up to that point in an area that had been plagued for decades by smog and stench from the petrochemical industry in the Botlek area. Deputee Hans van der Vlist indicated that this had been one of the most important considerations to realize the poison collapse in De Lickebaert. After all, there were many environmental problems there. So these could still be added. That was better than planning it in a new, clean environment. I'm going back to the ski mound. When it became clear that under the carpet of the ski mound was actually planned a covert poison dump, resistance arose among the population. He had not been aware of this at all at the time of the procedure, simply because of the fact that no open card had been played. However, legal resistance was no longer possible, because all the procedures had passed under the false flag of the ski hill. There was now a Royal Decree with which the construction seemed irrevocable. Seemed, because troubled neighbors remembered that Her Majesty Queen Beatrix had in her Christmas speech called for the planting of more trees. It was decided to link the Royal Decree for the construction of a toxic landfill and the royal request for the planting of more trees and on 12 December 1992 7,000 residents of the Lickebaert area planted a forest of 20 hectares on the site of the intended landfill site in one day. There was no landfill site and the Volksbos developed into a unique habitat for plants and animals. Species such as the knee, the rudder, the reed singer, the bearded man, the blue-breasted man, the moustache, the dog-eater, the chicken-eater, the grutto and the oyster-eater found a safe passage and the very rare eastern crucifixion and the even rarer adder tongue and chicken flower bloom there. So no problem: a beautiful piece of new nature as a result of the participatory society avant la lettre, built by the citizens themselves with the support of local entrepreneurs. Until the area, which has already endured so many threats, was once again threatened by the Blankenburg tunnel with corresponding toll square. According to the minister, the Volksbos would be spared. However, the entrance to the tunnel is planned right next to it, straight through the protected reed wells, which not only contain unique nature, but also a unique soil archive, protected under the 1992 Malta Convention. According to that treaty, Maassluis and Vlaardingen should not be dug and certainly not in this size, because of the soil archive there. The area where the tunnel is projected belongs to the oldest inhabited parts of the Netherlands. I would like to hear from the Minister how the natural values and archaeological values present in the area are protected in accordance with national legislation and international conventions. There is a draft decision on the route, but the question is what the Minister will do with the 1,921 views put forward on 12 November this year. Nature Monuments and Nature and the Environmental Federation Zuid-Holland (NMZH) have, together with many local residents, objected to the fact that, despite the great resistance, the Minister continues with her plans for the construction of the road and gives the false impression that the road could be properly integrated into the landscape. The nature conservation organizations want the Blankenburg tunnel not to be built at all. However, when the road gets there, it must be fitted as well as possible with as little nuisance as possible for nature and the surroundings. A better integration of the road would be possible, according to a study by Rijkswaterstaat in June of this year. I would like to hear from the Minister why she apparently differs with Rijkswaterstaat about the possibility of a better integration of the road into the centuries-old landscape of the Aalkeet buitenpolder. Is it prepared to study this variant carefully and, if so, what consequences this has for costs and for tolls? You can't actually talk about tolling until you know what a good solution looks like and what it costs. Is the Minister prepared to look seriously and carefully at the thousands of views put forward and not to take irreversible steps in the field of construction and tolling until then? I'm considering a motion on this point. According to several organisations, the need for the Blankenburg tunnel has not been sufficiently demonstrated by the use of outdated, incorrect traffic development figures. It is therefore debatable whether the congestion point that the Blankenburg tunnel should solve is going to arise at all. According to Natuurmonumenten and the Nature and Environmental Federation Zuid-Holland, it is certain that the construction of the Blankenburg tunnel will cause great damage to nature, the landscape and recreation in Central Delfland, the green lung on which 2 million living Randstedelingen now rely. In the view of our groups, the Minister cannot ignore that. Anyone who asks for a view of residents and receives thousands cannot treat them as a legal formality. It will have to stop the process until there has been an orderly assessment and settlement of it. Without that, citizens do not feel taken seriously and citizens are not taken seriously. This can only widen the gap between citizens and politics. As the recent survey by Rijkswaterstaat has shown, a complete undertunnel of the road is possible. However, this progressive insight has not been used by the Minister to adapt her plans, so that the road now runs right through the protected nature reserve of the Rietputten. According to many authors of the views, this is unacceptable, also because the law stipulates that degradation of protected nature is only possible when there really are no alternatives. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. On the one hand, the legal provisions will have to be complied with and on the other hand, nature-friendly alternatives must be seriously assessed. It is not logical that we should decide here and now on tolls until it is clear which variant meets the legal requirements and what the cost of that variant will be. These costs will have to be taken into account in total costs, and on this basis the tolling and the amount of tolls can be discussed. It will also have to be made clear first whether there will be a bicycle tunnel in the Blankenburg tunnel and what the consequences will be for the ferry between Maassluis and Rozenburg. There is still no clarity about this either. Prior to that clarity, it is impossible to decide on tolls. Also within the Crisis and Recovery Act, it cannot be the case that legislation in the field of nature protection must automatically give way to a government that wants to push through a project with steam and boiling water despite thousands of views, despite objections from large nature conservation organisations and despite alternatives presented by Rijkswaterstaat. The least that can be expected of a government that takes its citizens seriously is a careful handling of their objections. That is not the case at the moment, and we do not think that legislation should take any advance in this respect. That is why we urge the Minister not to take irreversible steps pending the current approach procedure and to clarify her objections to the nature-friendly application of a controversial plan. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that this bill has been dealt with so soon by the Supreme Court. Infrastructure and accessibility are crucial for the Dutch economy. That is also why I attach so much importance to getting started with both new links: the Blankenburg connection and the ViA15. In order to make this possible, I need this bill, which will allow a temporary toll for these two projects. Before I go into the questions of the Chamber, I will briefly outline the history. We did not think in this cabinet period that we would like to add some more and that is why we are going to take a toll. I, too, am not really in favour of tolls, and I prefer to do so from the general funds. Tolling was decided on a long time ago, namely in 2006 and 2009. In 2006 it was decided to charge tolls for the ViA15 and in 2009 for the Blankenburg connection. It was also decided to charge tolls for the A13/A16. On this last road, I have been able to do so for a while in the debate, in order to allow it to go at the expense of my budget, so that no tolls would be introduced there. The reason for this is that it is a fairly short piece which probably makes the price elasticity toll unattractive. So there are two projects which have been on the agenda for a long time and which will be included in the future budget with a toll, namely these two main roads. The reasons why decisions were taken at the time to take toll on these roads are that there was a great deal of need for roads, that there was no more budget in general resources and, as some people have said in the debate, that the regions had said: we want it so badly that we would rather have it with toll and a contribution of our own rather than waiting until sufficient savings have been made. Mr Van Hattem of the PVV Group is in favour of roads, but not tolls. He asked me if I could use the provinces to see if they could still come up with alternative funding. The Blankenburg tunnel will be located in the province of South Holland, which I think is the poorest province we know in the country. Of course, I have wondered whether others could contribute to both projects, but I know that there is no room for that. The other road, the ViA15, lies in the province of Gelderland. That county's already contributing a lot. I know that the coalition agreement there states that we want to explore the possibilities of the Empire not taking a toll. So that province looks exactly the other way. I have, of course, looked at my colleague at the provincial level, the deputy, once again, but there is no extra pot available there to avoid tolls. I can imagine that. The province already makes a very large contribution to the national road. That is not possible. Then the question is whether or not you build the roads. I refer that question back to the PVV Group because I also know that it is very much in favour of both ways. Sometimes you have to do the one thing you don't want to do, but you might want to do the other. Mr Van Hattem has made a whole speech that the driver is already paying. That is also a reason for me not to want to look at tolls quickly, but in this case we have set a clear toll framework in the legislation, in which we have said: tolling can only take place if there are new cuts. There are also a number of other rules in it, but this is an important rule that does not put it at the top of the current budget and really only applies to new cuts. The PVV Group also looked at the provincial increases. Shouldn't we bet it? Mr Van Hattem made a wonderful speech about the history and backgrounds of the pennies. I liked hearing that. He also had ideas for matters for which we could use them in the future, because the historical story shows that the original purpose of the increases is no longer clearly on the retina for everyone. As Mr Van Hattem himself pointed out, increases are part of the general resources of the provinces. So we cannot spend it freely. The Minister of Finance sets a maximum level for the increase levy, but then it is up to the provinces themselves to decide and justify how they intend to use these funds. For example, look at the province of Gelderland and the big contribution this province makes. You may not be able to see the relationship with the pennies one-on-one, but the willingness to make a substantial contribution to this project and thereby to mobility, I think, is very clear. I would say to the PVV Group that this is perhaps a nice initiative proposal for the House of Representatives, to discuss once again what the increases were once intended for and to attach a purpose clause to it. The PVV Group has also asked why the windfalls are not used for disappointing toll revenues. Normally, in the MIRT Game Rule Framework, windfalls and setbacks return to the general MIRT, where they are matched. Sometimes we deviate from that in an administrative arrangement. Then we'll make other arrangements. That's what we did in this case. Because the province's contribution was so incredibly high and the province still had many applications, we have said that windfalls can be used to improve the integration of the project or the region's wishes in terms of the integration of the project. That's the deal we made. What if the toll revenues and the toll reservation are disappointing? When's it gonna be too bad? And how am I going to stick to the maximum time I have in mind? These are also questions from the PVV Group. The toll will raise 316 million for the Blankenburg tunnel and 285 million for the ViA15. We calculated that. How many cars are we expecting in the coming years? What is the price elasticity? We have, of course, already counted with bandwidths, but what if there is lower economic growth? It could then be that there are fewer cars driving along the routes and thus the toll revenues are disappointing. When that happens, we make a risk reservation with each other to eventually overcome a cash problem so that the contractual DBFM obligation with a contractor can be met. For example, the province of Gelderland and the Empire have done so together. The size of the risk reservation is 108 million from the Empire and 60 million from the province of Gelderland. Contrary toll revenues can therefore be covered by longer tolls if this is the case. I hope that this will never be the case, because we have already counted with various scenarios and have therefore also tried to see what this means in a lower growth scenario as well. The reservation will be released as soon as the full toll has been paid. That is a good thing for my successors, because then they will have an attractive sum in their hands at once, which they can spend freely. The PVV Group has also asked whether we should see this bill as an extension of further tolling or pricing. I can reassure Mr Van Hattem, because I started my speech by saying that I am not in favour of toll. This really is a legacy from the past. Then it was decided that we wanted to do these projects with a toll. There is also no proposal from the cabinet to proceed with mileage tax or pricing. In fact, the coalition agreement states that we are not going to do that. So this is a framework proposal, which states where tolls can be levied and until when. It can only be done on the basis of these two projects. It is not possible to charge tolls elsewhere or for a longer period of time under this law. I don't intend to. It has also been asked to what extent the toll system is feasible and feasible. We have not yet completed exactly what the feasibility is going to be; I have also told you this in the House of Representatives. It takes a number of years for the toll system to actually be put in place. I think you should choose the definitive system as soon as possible, because there is still a lot of change. We assume that it will probably become a free flow system, because the driver will suffer as little as possible. As far as I am concerned, it is also important to consider whether experience has already been gained elsewhere. There are many countries in which similar projects run, such as Sweden, Ireland, Norway and the United Kingdom. Those countries are already showing that it's possible. As far as I am concerned, the toll should be carried out as efficiently as possible. That is why we have also set a ceiling on implementation costs. However, the percentage is similar to that in other countries. The implementation plan and the enforcement plan will eventually be presented through the Lower House and the Upper House as soon as we have made more choices. I come to the last two questions from the PVV Group. Can I confirm that the toll will never be transferred to a private body for which VAT is to be paid? Under this law, the toll charge is reserved for the Minister of I and M. The proceeds are also for the benefit of the State and not for the benefit of a market participant. Therefore, there is no VAT due. Another construction, like the Westerschelde tunnel, requires a change of law. With this bill it is not possible. I cannot predict what political constellations there will be in the future and what choices they will be faced with, but at least we have ended this. A question has also been asked about foreign road users. It has not only been put by the PVV Group, but also by the SP Group. What guarantees are there regarding the equality of law between Dutch and foreign vehicles? The starting point for me is that foreign road users, like the Dutch road users, pay a toll. Otherwise, you will have the same problem as other countries that are now practicing. Then you make a distinction between your own inhabitants and others, and you just can't. This is therefore important for the acceptance of tolls, for the equality of law between Dutch and foreign nationals and for the level playing field in the transport sector. It is therefore important for me that the toll rate can be easily paid by foreigners. That is why I am investigating whether foreigners who already have a toll account for tolls in another country can also pay the Dutch toll with the existing account. That was a question Mrs Jorritsma asked. I am going to go into Europe a little more deeply, but this is one of the things I am investigating now, precisely to make it easy. It is also important that foreigners can be fined if they do not pay. I am therefore committed to exchanging international registration data for toll charging. With a number of countries, I already have that exchange. I am working with a number of other countries to obtain them. Finally, as a safety net, I have arranged in the legislative proposal for foreign vehicles to be maintained and for an immediate administrative fine to be imposed on the spot. Of course, that's always complicated, because you'd just have to stand there. That is why the international treaties are so very important. However, if I have to wait until I have such an international treaty with everyone, it would be useful to have a means in the meantime to impose a double fine immediately. The enforcement plan will be submitted prior to the toll, so this Chamber will see it. The SP Group has already indicated in advance that it is not in favour of tolls. It has asked why it cannot be done from the general budget. In my view, at the beginning, I argued that it was already decided in 2006 and 2009 that these projects would be paid with a toll, because there was not enough money in the general budget and they wanted to go into the construction of these roads. The Group of the Party of European Socialists doubts the acceptance in the region and calls it parties that would not be in favour. I always have to assume agreements with drivers. For me, drivers are the representatives of the region. Democratically elected directors are the ones with whom I end up making appointments. I know that administrators in the Rotterdam region as well as in Gelderland do so themselves with all kinds of stakeholders and stakeholders in society. And they finally came to me with those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u11	I have two more questions for clarification. The minister says there wasn't enough money in the general budget. I asked in my contribution why it will not be spared until you have it, instead of imposing it now on the residents. Could she go into that a little bit more? Then there's my second question. The Minister says that there is support from the authorities, but the same authorities have also protested against the Blankenburg tunnel. I think the minister's just slipping by a little too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u12	At the beginning I said something about the first question, about saving, but I would like to come back to it. As with many other policy areas, infrastructure means that you have more wishes than money, and then you have to prioritize. We always do that within the MIRT. In the period from 2006 to 2009, there were more wishes than money. At that time it was decided not to save, wait and prioritize, but to do it anyway, but with the help of a toll. That was decided a long time ago. This made it possible to build these roads. Then I can do two things when I find that. I can say I'm not gonna do it. Then I must enter into the debate with the Chamber and say that we are no longer realising these paths. Or I could say I'm gonna keep going. It could not be paid out of the funds that had been released by now. The amounts were far too high for that. For the part at the A13/A16 I bought it off. That was not possible for these two roads. I know how much people want these roads in the region, both in Gelderland and Rotterdam. Then there's the question of drivers. We always talk to the Rotterdam region. In it are directors of the different municipalities. They shall indicate whether they support a route decision or a draft route decision or not and what plan they intend to have. The same applies to the province of Gelderland, which has also done so with a number of stakeholders. There may well be individual municipalities that say they don't like it, because it's just about their territory, or they don't want it for other reasons, but we have received administrative support for both, just like in the Chambers, because these routes have been discussed several times in the Lower House. Various democratic parties representing all kinds of interest groups, local residents and stakeholders have indicated their desire for these projects. That doesn't mean there's no resistance. These are new links. That's always hard. You're always going through the area where there's no road yet. That's a lot more complicated than building peaks somewhere. There will always be opponents. There are still doubts about the design, but the implementation plan and the enforcement plan are still pending. Mrs Meijer also said that she would rather see the Orange Tunnel than the Blankenburg Tunnel, rather than the A15, but that is not under discussion. An important question is why the law is needed now, while the project construction procedure is still in progress. That is also to a large extent the argument of the Party for Animals. There's a reason. This law constitutes the legal basis for the toll decisions forming part of the route decisions. The adoption of the route decisions is planned for 2016. This is also included in the MIRT Project Book. These decisions must take account of the levying of tolls on the roads concerned. I need this law now to deliver that route decision in time. In fact, without this law, I cannot deliver that route decision, so it is a coherent whole. It is also necessary to be able to achieve this, regardless of the fact that it has been booked into the MIRT for years. If we don't get that financial cover, we're gonna make a hole in the budget, too. I take it they don't want that on their conscience in the First Chamber. Then I come to the questions of the VVD. I congratulate Mrs Jorritsma on her maiden speech, as I did earlier. It was interesting and fun to hear historical equations. She wasn't in favour of tunnels, I understand. I must say that I am never so much in favour of tunnels either, because because of my responsibility for water and a good evacuation of the Dutch people, if something really goes wrong, I would prefer to have roads on poles, especially in this area, because I know what the misery is if once a real disaster happens on the coast. However, that is not how decision-making on roads has gone. In the Netherlands we always say: we want him, as long as we don't see him, smell him and hear him. We all want to use it, but we don't want to know he's here. There's quite a lot of undertunnel. Sometimes you have to subtunnel. This is the case at the Nieuwe Waterweg, where the Blankenburg tunnel is going to get a place. At the A4/A15 I fought not to subtunnel, because I do not think it is necessary for the connection and because it would cost much more than is strictly necessary. I know that in the past the hsl has been chosen to subtunnel, but why repeat a choice that was made then and which you can have your doubts about, and then repeat it in the same way? Mrs Jorritsma also noted that she had alarming memories of the Wijkertunnel and the tunnel under the North, namely that much more should be paid for the tunnel by a toll construction than what it should actually cost. The Noordtunnel and the Wijkertunnel are built with a shadow toll, a public-private construction, where the builder receives a sum per vehicle passed, for a contractual period. The Noordtunnel was the first with this construction in the Netherlands, followed four years later by the Wijkertunnel. Payments to the private consortium were higher because the roads were much more used than had been previously estimated. Of course, car mobility has grown enormously. The budget still contains a payment under Infrafund Article 12.04: redemption tunnels. We never want to have this kind of thing again and never do it again. That's why we didn't choose the construction of shadow toll. When this project has been financed, the toll will also be reduced. That means we'll put an end to the tolling. The House of Representatives has called on me to start with the phasing-out of the system before that period is completed, so that there is no payment to be made yet, which is not strictly necessary. We also keep our finger on the wrist. The European approach has also been called for. Belgium is now working on a toll for trucks again. In Germany, I fought endlessly over toll. There are countries where tolls have been levied for several years, such as France and Switzerland. There are all different systems. I am very much in favour of the free movement of goods, so as far as I am concerned, there would be no toll system in Europe, but there is already diversity. It is filled in in several ways. This is linked to funding in the countries concerned. It is very complex to say to the Swiss: go and get it from the Minister of Finance, while it is now being charged with a vignette. I shudder a bit for a general European approach, because before you know it, we in the Netherlands are being messed up in a system that we do not want to be in at all. However, I am not happy with the fragmented patchwork it is now. I know that the Commission will present a road package in the six months following our Presidency. In particular, the Commission will look at new opportunities for intelligent transport systems (ITS) and what you can jointly monitor on the basis of them. It will take a very long time to come to a joint approach at all, but this is the first step that will be taken. On the one hand, when you talk about charging tolls in the future, I think that on the other hand, you should abolish the bpm and the tax on motor vehicles. You can't enter one and maintain the other. It is also being discussed in Europe. We'll look at the system a lot more first. Then we need to have a discussion on whether this is even within the competence of Europe. When we get out of that, I think we will have an endless discussion with the Finance Ministers about what this means for all the tax systems they now know. That's just a prospect outside the law. The Party for Animals has asked me to do this. It is an area that is protected under the Malta Convention, isn't it? How am I going to protect the natural values and archaeological values in that area? In the design route studies were carried out for the purposes of nature values and archaeological values. They're also insightful. The revision of the Blankenburg link's draft decision has just come to an end. Now we will study the views of the proposers. These will be incorporated into the reply note. If anything else comes out that we have not seen or recognised in our investigations, it will come out there. However, we have done research. I've been kept to legal standards. Maybe something isn't possible or I have to compensate. Then I will have to do so in accordance with legal standards. The Party for Animals has asked for variants. At these kinds of tracks we study a lot of variants. Those concerned who consider that they have a better proposal for a different fit or location will also introduce variants. One of the last variants that remained next to the route we chose was the abandonment of the tilteldijk. Many people have also asked for this in their views. I looked into it. Both variants are possible. That is what I said in the House of Representatives. In the end, however, we decided not to let go of the tilteldijk. This would be linked back to a long tunnel. That means 150 to 200 million in additional costs. On the basis of the traffic figures we have compiled, the money we are paying out and the other integration proposals we have made, I see no reason to do this even more. I have also indicated in the House of Representatives that it is possible, but that it is not on the agenda as far as I am concerned, because this leads to a lot more costs. That is my starting point. The views are coming now, too. We'll respond to that, and we'll see what we can do with it. However, as a minister, you always have a preferred route that you put in first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u13	My question was actually about the submission of views, but that the cabinet is simply running the procedure pending. I ask the Minister whether she is willing and able to just wait for the views to be assessed and then talk to us about tolling. The Minister said in reply to Mr Meijer's questions that she is not prepared to do so, because she must first have a temporary toll law before she can take a final route decision. This is without prejudice to the space between the time of the draft decision on the route, the final decision on the route and the decision on the implementation. So there is nothing in the way of waiting for the views to be properly judged. I do not think the Minister has answered this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u14	As I said earlier, this is because of the connection between the law and the Tracé decision. In the meantime, we will also work with the 1,900 participation reactions. We'll look into that. At the draft stage of the decision, everyone has been given room to present an opinion. We'll take it with us on the final route decision. The toll law that we are now adopting makes it possible to charge tolls. There may be a variant that is more expensive or cheaper. After that, we're gonna figure out what the toll is. This comes only with the implementation and enforcement plan. In doing so, there is no objection whatsoever to adopting the proposal in principle on tolling which is now before us, so that, on the basis of the views, where or no changes are made between the draft route decision and the route decision, adjustments can be made and the level of tolls determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u15	Can the Minister also imagine that it is important for this Chamber to have a more definitive view of the costs and implementation, and then to be able to take the decision in principle to take a toll or no toll? The Minister now assumes that you can make that decision without that knowledge. It may well be that we here in the Chamber would like to have that knowledge before taking that decision of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u16	It could be that more parties in this Chamber want that. I also had this discussion in the Lower House. The House of Representatives was fine with me doing it at a later date, because she understood that there is a distinction between the fundamental issue, the implementation plan and the enforcement plan. People also know it's going to go by the Rooms. In that respect, you will also have some comments to make in due course. In fact, the decision in principle on tolling has nothing to do with the projects themselves, unless you really do not want the projects. Then it cannot support the toll system as a means of doing so. I have already said that the speakers will be very seriously involved, including in the further development of the route decision. I have just answered the question of whether I can decide on the toll bill if I do not know what the task and the budget is yet. The Party of Animals has asked a question about the degradation of nature at the Blankenburg connection. It states that all variants and reactions to them should be considered. The layout of the route and the consequences for residents, the environment and nature have been part of the route decision. All the elements are weighed up in the decision on the route. There is no advance in the legislative proposal before us. It only provides a basis for the tolling. Finally, the Party for the Animals asked whether we should not first know about a bicycle connection and a ferry connection near the Blankenburg tunnel. As I said yesterday in the House of Representatives, both myself and the region do not want to achieve a bicycle connection. The estimate is that there will be insufficient use of it to justify the amount you have to invest in it. Talks about the future of the ferry service Maassluis-Rozenburg after 2018 are now taking place between the province of Zuid-Holland, the municipality of Rotterdam and Maassluis. The new Blankenburg connection is also taken into account. The starting point of Rotterdam and Maassluis is in any case to keep the ferry service. Mr President, I have answered all the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u17	Thank you. We now have the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. I'll come back briefly to a few points. The Minister referred the question back to our group. We would like to realize these roads, the Blankenburg tunnel and the extended A15, and how should they be financed? In my contribution I have already mentioned a number of options to finance without tolling. First of all, I would like to mention the contribution made by the provinces to the sale of energy companies. In particular, in Gelderland there is still, in principle, enough in the bank to finance the toll. The fact that there is no administrative commitment in Gelderland is something else, but the possibility is there in theory. The second possibility is the direct use of the resources, as I have pointed out in detail. Measures from the time of Bestek'81 should not last for eternity. The third option is to stop EU payments and put the money into them in our own country and on our own roads, and no longer in the Western Balkans and Turkey. Then I think we are coming a long way and this toll is not necessary. One more point to cover the setbacks from the risk reservation. It is not yet quite clear what this is about, because if there are setbacks in the revenues, will they ultimately be paid out of the tolls? So will the toll be used for a longer period of time so that the full risk reservation will always come back? Or is that amount being settled? I would like to be clear about that. Where is the cash problem that would be involved? The tunnel and the bridge are there. In what way is there a cash problem? Finally, the windfalls for the further integration of the A15. We still find it a little strange that it is now said that those windfalls from the toll actually go to the province, whereas that province itself has enough revenue from the increases to be able to finance that. I think that is a wrong argument to use, so as far as we are concerned, that should be dismissed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. Today I continue to congratulate Mrs Jorritsma on her maiden speech, which I said to her: we do not agree, but it is well spoken. Of course, thanks also to the Minister for her comprehensive reply. I've got three more points I'd like to share with her. I keep wondering how to explain this to the people living in these regions. Do I really have to say to them: you meet the conditions, there is a free alternative, as Mrs Jorritsma said, but not too much and so there is a good chance that you will be able to drive there and so you can pay and not residents of Groningen, Friesland or Overijssel? I think that's a little weird. Then, of course, we're still running out of money. I can also imagine that this Minister, who, as I have just said, has managed to raise her budget from 6.6 to 7.9 billion, is going to use some of it to take the toll here. I think it would be very nice if we could finish this procedure with the views before we continue on this course, so I hope that the Minister will nevertheless respond to Mr Koffeman's alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. I actually want to apologize to you right away, because I obviously didn't congratulate you. So here's to it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u22	So a little nervousness, I'm afraid, for this first time. I have just one comment to make on the road package and the possibilities of integrating systems. I have talked mainly about technical integration. In other words, can't you make it so that one can drive with the same system anywhere? In my dreams I still see a future where you just pay every mile via a pass that you can use anywhere. Then you could even decide at national level what everyone wants to charge for it nationally. But that will take a very long time, so let's just get on with it. I would be very pleased if we could at least use the same card without all these systems being put together in such a way. I hope the Minister will succeed in getting that package there next year. For the time being, however, I would like to maintain our national responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. We do not agree on the route nor on the end of that route. We believe in the Animal Party that the bear should not be shot, but that the bear's skin should not be sold until it has been shot. In that sense, we really wonder why you would adopt a temporary toll law while there is still much uncertainty. When you say as a cabinet: there may be 1,900 views, but we actually think that we can go full speed, citizens do not feel taken very seriously. I think it is very important in these times to at least give citizens the feeling that their views matter. In that sense, it would be only chic to wait until those views have been assessed and to make the preliminary route decision and the final route decision just the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u24	I need to ask Mr Koffeman a question on this because he is so clearly putting the public at risk. Of course, it will be best for the public if we explain it correctly. You need a toll bill to run the procedure at all. After all, a route decision, including a provisional route decision, must always involve the financing of a road or infrastructure. We will also have the enforcement decision in this Chamber. Then we can always decide that we don't think this is such a good idea. Then there's just nothing going on for the rest of the procedure. So it's not like the citizen has nothing left to say about this project from today on. Nor is it the case that the Minister can go further without involving us. So, Mr Koffeman, I am sorry that you think that it is no longer for the public to explain. I think it is still very good to explain that this law does not yet become the same as the Minister wants it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u25	Yeah, I can imagine. Nor is it my view that the citizens no longer have the opportunity to participate. My point is that it would be more elegant when the government says: we will first see how serious your objections or views are; on that basis it becomes clear whether that tunnel is going to be there at all, and on that basis we will then decide whether or not tolling is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u26	But that doesn't have anything to do with fancy, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u27	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u28	Everything's chic, but if you can't make a decision if there's no toll road, then that has nothing to do with chic. Then you just say, "I don't want that road." You can say the same thing, but be honest with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u29	I think I have been rather comprehensive and honest about this. As far as I'm concerned, no Blankenburg tunnel. But when you have room between your provisional and your final route decision, I say that it is reasonable to wait and see what the citizens' objections are, to assess them and to submit a temporary toll bill only afterwards. I have a motion for that. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Kox, Mr Gerkens, Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recent research carried out by Rijkswaterstaat has shown that the possibilities for unobstructed integration of the Blankenburg tunnel are greater than hitherto assumed;]] [[Whereas the view procedure around the Blankenburg tunnel has not been completed;]] [[Whereas this does not make the necessary costs for the project understandable;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the draft Law on temporary tolling Blankenburg tunnel until there is more clarity about the final form and costs of the project,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34189-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. The PVV has made a number of comments and put forward a number of alternatives that would allow you to arrange the financing of these two road routes. However creative they may be, I believe that their feasibility is currently limited, both in terms of the EU's payments, where there is a legal framework, and in terms of the increases that we are not talking about. The province of Gelderland has also indicated that it is now a good idea, because there is already about 300 million in it. So that's not a passable road, no matter how creatively thought along. I hope that the PVV group will have another night's sleep on it and will be able to support this toll proposal. A question has also been asked about the risk reservation and what it means if you end up with disappointing returns, whether if you have to pay longer, you also have to charge a longer toll and whether the risk reservation will be released. Indeed, there are now setbacks in the risk reservation because there is a time limit. Eventually, this is paid out of the toll. It is then a longer period and then you get release, or the cabinet should decide in due course to buy off the last piece. It could be. They also asked why there was a cashier's problem. It has to do with having the execution done by a consortium or a contractor. You have to pay back every year. They make the first investments. They are going to charge a toll and eventually the money will be repaid. You must be able to meet the contractual DBFM obligation with a contractor. That's why you need to be able to make the payments and that's why there's a risk reservation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u31	Let's talk about the toll and the setbacks. Today it has become known that there are quite big problems with the tunnel of the A4 near Schiedam. There are leaks. There are considerable costs involved in restoring them. A number of experts argue that the tunnel has been built with too much speed, against expert advice. Imagine such problems happening in the Blankenburg tunnel. Does that mean longer tolling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u32	I do not know if you can speak of too fast a procedure in the A4 Central Delfland, because I think it took 40 years before it was clear at all that it was going to be realized. The moment you realize projects, you always run the risk of disappointing. Then it could be in the construction. It could also be the water pressure. Now that also plays with the A4 Central Delfland. It can be about the IT systems, because they are becoming increasingly sensitive to them. We therefore take financial bandwidths into account in our designs. Some things will be more expensive and sometimes cheaper. We make good agreements with the contractors about this. If the fault lies with the contractor, you can put the costs there. If the fault lies with the Empire, we have to pay for it ourselves. In this case, we have made a cost estimate of what the Blankenburg tunnel and the bridge and the section of the ViA15 had to cost. After the decision on the route has been taken in the Chamber, this will eventually take place in the implementation phase. It will then be established whether the assumptions and the actual costs correspond. Furthermore, in terms of costs, we have also made an assessment of what this means over the years if you are going to charge tolls. We have also included bandwidths for this purpose, also because of the risk that the costs of the project may be higher or lower. We have looked further at what is still possible in terms of price elasticity. You shouldn't just throw the price up in a year, but if there is a setback in that respect, a setback in addition to the already planned setbacks, you can pull three underwear over each other as it were, it may be that you have to raise longer, or that the Empire is willing to take a hold in the Infrastructure Fund to get that into the project. This also applies to all projects, whether or not they are paid at a toll.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u33	A brief question about the setback. The minister says the project is outsourced to a consortium. Does that consortium organize the toll?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u34	We intend to invite internationally experienced parties to respond to this and to present their ideas. I do not feel very strongly about reinventing a whole new system in the Netherlands in this respect, with all the misery that this entails. A lot of consortia do. I have just mentioned the countries where the free float system is already operational. At some point we indicate: the road is built for that amount. You need to prefinance that and you can raise that money back by toll. We'll arrange that in a DBFM contract. So we agree on how many years it takes and what the price is. You make these arrangements with a consortium like this. You also agree on how to ensure that the citizens suffer as little as possible from it. Should there suddenly be any other assumptions, other than those agreed upon in advance, which may be a disappointing economic growth, then it may be that the government may have to compensate the toll revenues that do not come in as it were towards a consortium. That's what the risk reserve is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u35	Follow-up question. If the project is carried out by a consortium, a private company, is there still no VAT obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u36	Yes, because we are the ones who formally collect the toll and get the money. The consortium is the implementing party. Then there are the questions of the SP. People have been asked how to explain that you have to charge a toll there and not in Groningen, for example. That's complicated. That is why I am not in favour of this kind of separate tolling. Given the history, we'll do it. In history, we've done it before. Mrs Jorritsma may have had some less good examples, but a good example is the Westerschelde tunnel. When it was built, everyone thought it was perfectly logical that there was a toll on it. That has never led to any major problems. The alternatives are there. You can also use a different road network and other tunnels. It has been said that I am good at negotiating. In that context, it was asked whether I could not have put in some extra budget to pay off the toll. I did part of it. For the A13 and the A16 I have money that I could have spent on new roads in the end put in place for that earlier decision. I found toll there really an unfortunate variant. I didn't have enough money for these two roads. I don't have 7.9 billion a year to spend. Over the past few years, I have had to deal with a higher peak in expenditure, because of the economic crisis, and because I wanted to give an impetus. The average in the following years is around 5.8 billion. So I don't have the budget to pay the toll. Otherwise I would have liked to, because it seems more convenient to have one system in the country than all the different variants. Both the SP and the PvdD asked me to wait until the participation was completed and processed. I have been asked to give citizens the feeling that we take participation seriously. I don't just want to make the citizens feel that way. I take the participation seriously. For the Blankenburg tunnel, participation has been completed. For the ViA15 it runs until September 23rd. I take the participation seriously. On the basis of this participation, we are looking at what we still want to change between the draft decision on the route and the decision on the route. There may be a total scope change, although I don't expect it to be. This bill has nothing to do with that. This bill does not in any way determine what the route decision will look like. At the same time, I do need it to be able to take the route decision, because the route decision is not valid if there is no source of funding under it. I have to submit this proposal now. I have to realize it now, but that does not mean that I am closing down opportunities for views.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u37	I have a question for clarification. The Minister says that the view has been finalised. That is only relative: the deadline expired on 12 November, but the procedure was of course only completed when the government assessed and appreciated this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u38	Yes, but that is separate from the argument I have just made that there is no obstacle for us to adopt views if they are justified or to reject them if we find them unfounded. In this respect, this procedure has no influence whatsoever on taking seriously the participation process that applies around the two routes. Of course I know there's a lot left on it. I've been working on these projects for years, so I know most of the opinions. We have also had the debates in the Chamber, where variants and proposals have been dropped. To a large extent we will see this again. I might say in due course that we have already seen it once and that we can't do anything with it. However, there will also be new cases in which eye-openers may be present. We always take participation seriously and this bill does nothing about it. You don't have to worry about that. I'll continue with the VVD input. I was almost afraid that Mrs Jorritsma was dreaming about a price system throughout Europe, but it turned out that she was mainly dreaming about technical integration. I am pleased that this integration is one of the smart ways in which we can have diversity and ensure that the way in which you make things operable is aligned. Technical interoperability, as it is called, is regulated by the EETS Directive (European Electronic Toll Service). We provide input here. I will take Mrs Jorritsma's words into account in the view I will put forward. What a maiden speech can't lead to! I answered the questions of the PvdD at the same time as those of the SP. Finally, I would like to speak about the PvdD motion. It calls on the government to enforce the toll law until a later date. I advise the motion, which will not surprise the Members. The toll law is the legal basis for paying tolls later on. The actual toll is laid down in the toll decision. This toll decision shall be taken at the same time as the route decision. For the route decision, of course, I need the view OTB. That's what we agreed on in the Elverding rules we have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-eerstekamer-6.u39	Thank you. I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motion.
