ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u1	The speaking time per group is exactly four minutes. I give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will start with a quote from the Minister: "People are looking for security. Whether they're minister or mechanic, whether they're lawyers or alpha helpers. With the Work and Security Act, we want to help those people." That's what the minister of the week said at a meeting of the Association of Labour Law Lawyers Netherlands. The Minister is not tired of explaining his good intentions. Last weekend we were able to see that page size in all the newspapers. But there are also alarming reports in those same newspapers. Before the effective date of the Work and Security Act, the number of dismissal applications has doubled in the last month. My question to the Minister is: how does the UWV deal with that? Is there any extra check on these suspicious dismissal applications? Is the UWV not gonna resign from the slightest doubt? Will the Minister report to the Chamber on the nature of these dismissal applications and what will happen to them and what will happen to them? The minister addressed ING, addressed National-Netherlands on the dumping of flex workers. Will the Minister address other companies, such as the Laurentius Foundation in Delft, the Public Schools community Piter Jelles, the Hanseatic School, the Noord-Holland Court, childcare Humanitas, Dak kindercentraten, the Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland, DUO, PostNL, Randstad, Olympia, Manpower, Start People, Adecco, Eurojob and the Rabobank, to name but a few? These are companies the CNV reports us as companies dumping flex workers. Better than calling, the minister can change the law. The CNV also notes in the results of its reporting point that its findings indicate that this is not a temporary response to the introduction of a new law, but that this is anticipating the situation after 1 July. It expects and sees indications that employment will be permanently replaced by cheap flex forces. My party has warned that the design of this law will speed up the turning door for people with insecure work. In the legal process, we have also put forward proposals to prevent this by providing a redundancy allowance for flex for less than two years and increasing the WW premium for companies with a lot of flex and reducing it for permanent. I am used to the fact that the Minister does not listen to the SP, well, listens, but does not do what we want, but he may want to listen to the research of Berenschot and ADP. This is an investigation involving 800 HR officials, 6% of whom expect that the Work and Security Act will not lead to fixed contracts but rather to flex contracts of up to 23 months. Isn't that a conclusion that the Minister should be alerting? Why does the Minister want to wait three years to change the law? You see an iceberg popping up. A sane captain would push his course, wouldn't he? Or does the Minister want to let all his good intentions go to hell? The Minister says in almost all newspapers that he wants to stop the americanisation of the labour market. He's making a moral appeal to employers. Mr. Managers say this isn't working. If the Minister does nothing now, he himself is guilty of the americanisation of the Dutch labour market. It's very undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Work and Security Act entered into force. Sometime tonight, it's going into summer recess. It is good that we have this debate together before the summer recess begins. After all, the distress calls about the effects of this law are building up. From all sides there are signs that temporary workers will not get a permanent contract but will fly out sooner. The revolving door of the labour market has not stopped, but it is going to run faster. The promise of a fixed contract has become the reality of a certain discharge. Only 6% of the HR managers in the Netherlands think that this law will lead to more permanent jobs. Scientists and labour market lawyers argue that reducing the chain regime to two years will achieve the opposite of what we have intended. The end of the chain regime and the start of the transition fee together also seem to result in a double threshold for the fixed contract. This becomes even more acute when you realize that low-skilled people already have twice as many flex contracts as highly educated people. Doesn't the effect with this law become even greater? Don't disadvantaged people become even more disadvantaged? Is the Minister prepared to reduce the chain regime to the original three years, in accordance with the various amendments tabled by various parties in the Chamber, from left to right, to the legal process? Mr Ulenbelt has already mentioned this. Is the Minister prepared to make multi-annual contracts possible, as expressed in the debate by Mr Voortman and by myself, that is to say by GroenLinks and the CDA, precisely in order to bridge the gap between firm and flexible? Earlier this year, the CDA called on the Minister to come to a spring meeting with employers and employees about the chilly relationship in the polder, such as about the slickjakkers and labs, but above all about the consequences of this law and the problems that arise, for example, in seasonal work. In a debate in April, the Minister embraced this suggestion for a spring meeting, but we haven't heard from it since. Can the Minister tell us what has been done since then and whether there is no chance that this spring meeting has not taken place? The Minister states at various times that companies must abide by the letter and spirit of the law and that the government must set a good example in this respect. However, in the letter we received from Minister Blok, following a motion by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Mulder and myself, it says that the chain regime in the Work and Security Act does not apply to civil servants, as they are governed by civil servants' law. Companies risk the wrath of this minister when flex workers go out. They must obey the letter and spirit of the law. But doesn't this letter say that the letter of the law doesn't apply to civil servants? Last weekend, in anticipation of the entry into force of the law, and also in anticipation of this debate, we saw the Minister giving interviews in many places. In those interviews, he sent out a number of signals. A very important signal to my group concerned seasonal work and the recognition of possible problems there by the Minister. He did, however, put the ball very unilaterally at the polder. He put the door for adjustment on a crack, but that crack is not big enough for the social partners to fit through. That is certainly so given the less than warm proportions in the polder of this moment. Why are trade unions and employers not actively invited to discuss seasonal adjustment? Is the Minister prepared to make this invitation to employers and workers and to discuss with them a seasonal adjustment so that the problems which the Minister recognised in his interviews last weekend can be avoided?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday it was time and entered the Work and Security Act. There are a number of things in that law that my group has strongly supported, for example, with regard to the duration of the WW and also with regard to limiting sometimes very high redundancy payments. But there are also elements, which we discussed extensively in the course of the debate and whose effects are less clear in advance. Do the good intentions come true? This applies, for example, to the supply chain clause, which allows companies to offer only three temporary contracts in two years instead of three years. It also ensures that there are not three months but six months between separate contracts. This now seems to cause problems, for example in the companies with seasonal workers, in agriculture and horticulture, campsites, holiday parks, amusement parks or ice cream parlors. A lot of e-mails reach us. The Minister now sees this problem as well, as the interviews showed this weekend. But what action is he going to take on that? He's not gonna wait for the three-year evaluation, is he? I got that impression a little bit. Can the Minister promise that he will intervene much sooner in the event of problems? Is it true that sectoral unions would like to do business with employers, for example in the recreational sector and in other sectors, but that these sectoral unions are not allowed by the bosses of the FNV, so that there is a kind of polderban to do something now? Surely it would be sad if polder prestige would prevent the polder summit from taking action that is needed in the sector. The Minister won't let that happen, will he? Is he prepared to talk to sectors himself, to take the initiative, to see where bottlenecks are now and to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr Van Weyenberg stressed the problems that would arise in seasonal work. I think it is very good that D66 explicitly states that they will act. Mr Van Weyenberg also asks the Minister: will you not allow this to happen? Can we deduce from this that the D66 Group has also entered into this debate with the intention to prevent it from happening and to move the Minister if he is not prepared to take steps to do so by means of an address to the House? The D66 Group has spoken firmly about the risks involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u6	Yes, I hope, of course, that the Minister, who, in my view, recognizes this problem, will also draw the conclusion that if there is a stalemate in the polder he will also take initiatives himself, so that there will be no seasonal workers at home because of all kinds of prestige debates in the polder. So I think Mr Herma has heard me very well. In the previous debate on the Work and Security Act, D66, together with Mr Heerma and Mr Mulder, tabled a motion to avoid double standards. "The government must follow the same rules in letter and in spirit" to quote the minister. In that light, I would like to ask the Minister the following. Isn't it strange that at this time in his own ministry people can still get three contracts in three years? That is how it is still regulated for civil servants. They are not covered by the Work and Security Act. Article 6 (6) of the General Staff Regulations has not changed at all. It just says you can offer three more contracts in three years. Isn't that weird? Now I understand that the Minister is going to say that the initiative law of D66 and the CDA must first be adopted in the Senate in order to normalise civil service law. Of course, I share that hope wholeheartedly with him, but is it not particularly that, pending the entry into force of that law, which is still to be adopted in the Senate, I should not prelude at all on that, so there is now a much wider chain clause in the government than the minister now has to hold companies to? In that context, I have a specific question about DUO. The letter sent to the Chamber by the Cabinet on 29 May said: "Payroll employees who carry out structural work are recruited by the Empire. This applies in any case to payroll workers on an indefinite contract of employment." But with the Implementation Education Department, payrollers with a contract for an indefinite period of time are simply thrown out. Out of the 49 out there, only 30 are allowed to stay, 19 are fired. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. Is that number of 19 coincidence, or does that have something to do with you firing 20 of them into the collective dismissal procedure? The number made me a little suspicious. Is it true that 19 people lose their jobs despite the promises in the cabinet letter? I don't doubt the Minister's intentions. Is the Minister prepared to do what the cabinet wrote in that letter in writing, under the motto of that promise making guilt? The letter states that those who now have an indefinite contract with DUO as a payroller will be employed by DUO. I hope the Minister will just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr Van Weyenberg is targeting the government as an employer, but in his contribution he does not mention all those people at other companies that are now being dumped. Mr Van Weyenberg voted in favour of this law. He knew this was gonna happen. Afterwards, does he think that our ideas of making flex more expensive than I'm sure could be a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u8	In all honesty, I think it would be appropriate for Mr Ulenbelt to exercise a little more restraint in this matter. After all, a law that even takes elements of its own initiative proposal has been voted down because of the WW provision and the right of dismissal. His group chairman gave this part of the law a 10, if I recall correctly. I therefore honestly do not understand this criticism. Every time we say: be careful that the gap between flex and probably doesn't get too big, and that you don't protect so well that there are no more jobs, Mr Ulenbelt sits in the tallest tree. I find this tone surprising, because the SP chose to keep clean hands in this law. I would much rather have been involved in this legal process with the SP, like many other groups. The SP chose to be out of play. To be honest, I find this alligator tears. In my input on seasonal workers, for example, and with questions about the chain definition, I have demonstrated enough that my group has concerns. I'm standing for my autograph. The SP doesn't dare put those signatures into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u9	It is good that Mr Van Weyenberg admits that he has dirty hands. I'm now giving him the opportunity to wash his hands clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u10	I would ask Mr Ulenbelt to take that back. First of all, he is wrongly quoting me. My party takes responsibility. I suggest the SP show that guts, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr Van Weyenberg does not answer the question of what should happen to the people who are now being dumped, thanks to the law supported by D66. I've named a whole line of companies. There's more. What's D66's solution for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u12	That is not the solution of the SP, which means that there are even fewer people in permanent employment with an employer. I asked whether the flexibility provisions are appropriate and whether we should not discuss them with the sectors. I have highlighted seasonal work as a sector of great concern to me. Frankly, I do not understand Mr Ulenbelt's high tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. We couldn't get around it this weekend: Minister Asscher wants a decent labour market. He certainly doesn't know it yet, but he does hope that the Law will help with work and security. Is the law necessary? Yeah, he's needed. This is because there has been a blurring of flex. One of the employers even talked about flex workers as "work-related risks" when they are entitled to a permanent employment under the Work and Security Act. That's economics at the top. Indeed, we need to get to a decent labour market. Although I fully share the Minister's intentions and appreciate him for them, it is becoming less and less certain that this law will provide for them. We were informed that companies and even government organisations would fire flex workers in order not to have to pay the transition fee, or that a right to a fixed contract would arise. Research shows that only 6% of the professionals expect the law to provide more permanent contracts. They do expect more external hiring and faster termination of fixed contracts. GroenLinks voted in favour of this law, but against the flex part. We still have doubts, because flex must be more expensive than fixed, and that is not what this law does. We believe that we should now limit the damage. Waiting three years for an evaluation is too long. How many people will have lost their jobs at that time, even though they could have kept them? I therefore put forward a number of proposals to fix the law. Firstly, flex workers should also be entitled to a transition fee from day one. For example, temporary workers are no longer made redundant just before the two-year limit in order to avoid paying the allowance. Secondly, the maximum time you can work flexibly with an employer must remain three years, because two years really prove to be too short. Thirdly, GroenLinks wants a second multi-annual contract to be possible. In response to a previous motion by Mr Heerma and myself, the Minister explained why he did not think that was a good idea, based mainly on theoretical pros and cons. In fact, his letter made it even clearer to me what this should look like: the possibility of a second contract with a duration of three to five years which cannot be cancelled in the meantime. That is still better than a one-year contract or even no contract at all. I therefore ask the Minister to talk to employers and employees about what they think of such an option rather than simply saying that it is not a good idea on the basis of a theoretical exercise. I'd like a response from the Minister. In the previous debate on the Work and Security Act, much talked about the role of the government as an employer, but the government can do more. Organisations in care and well-being, for example, face great uncertainty about funding for subsequent years. I am thinking of Rijk and municipalities, which are one year instead of four years of contracting. They provide occasional rather than structural subsidies. It makes sense that you don't hire people. In addition, matters such as catering and cleaning are often outsourced to companies. And they don't give permanent employment because they don't know how long they'll keep doing the assignment. Can we not do anything about this, for example by encouraging multi-annual procurement and subsidising, so that the public authorities do not leave unnecessary uncertainty in organisations where public money goes? Could the Minister consider what possibilities there are for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u14	I think the Labour Party shares GroenLinks' analysis that flex, especially at the bottom of the labour market, is too cheap. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance makes three proposals, but of them there is only one that makes flex a little more expensive, namely the dismissal allowance. The other two proposals make flex more flexible, namely more consecutive contracts and multi-annual employment. Is there not a need for a much more fundamental solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u15	That might be possible, but these are proposals that I think lead to solutions that people are dealing with now. From my other wallet, the care, I regularly meet people getting that temporary contract on temporary contract. If these people get the choice between a contract like this or, worse yet, getting out on the street, it's always better. I'm sure it's all right. We agree on that. But if that's not possible, I'll look at what's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u16	I share that, but not the conclusion. In the end, I want to pursue the ideal of ensuring that, especially when it comes to the public sector, especially when it comes to the bottom of the labour market, people are simply doing structural work and therefore earning a fixed contract. I hope this law will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u17	I have just put forward the proposal that Rijk and municipalities can be more critical in procurement. Maybe they shouldn't be so short-term all the time. I am counting on Mrs Vermeij's warm support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u18	On May 7th I heard former colleague Van Ojik on BNR News radio say that the law could be extended a bit for people who really do flex work. Van Ojik said that you might be able to accommodate employers in, for example, seasonal work on campsites. What does Mr Voortman think of these comments made by our former colleague Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u19	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u20	What are you going to do to achieve what Mr Van Ojik said? How are you going to broaden the law for employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u21	Unfortunately, we have very little speaking time. Otherwise, I would have made a proposal myself, but I trust that there will be groups that will raise this issue. They can count on our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u22	That's pretty easy. What does GroenLinks want to do for seasonal workers at campsites?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u23	You're talking about people who just work really short. I believe that the law should be extended a little, just as Mr Van Ojik said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions that the PVV had also wanted to raise have already been asked. The "turn door" was also in my text. Let's push him a little further: he's starting to become a fan. That may be nice with the warmth, but for the people involved, it is absolutely unpleasant. We can also wholeheartedly support the comment about the movement of flex contracts after 23 months. That part immediately falls away; that saves minutes. The Minister doesn't want to evaluate and adjust until after three years. We would also like a response from the Minister to the comments that have been made on this issue. Are the phenomena we saw before 1 July, so before yesterday, already being evaluated after the summer? We find it unbelievable that this minister, the designer of this law, is going to take the employers' measure because they would not be good with their people. The minister who is there in the ministerial field is precisely the driver of the uncertainty in the labour market. Workers are less protected at the moment. We've been talking about the move to those 23-month flex contracts. Of course, job security is what we all understand, but according to the PVV Group, people prefer to have a temporary job in the old situation rather than no job at all. We recently saw the reports in the newspaper that a lot of people are losing their jobs right now. I have spoken to some of those people and they are afraid that their work will be filled by people from Eastern Europe, among others. That is all because of this Work and Security Act. That is why we did not support him. A careful implementation of the Wwz is required, says the cabinet. The letter and spirit of this law must be acted upon. Can the Minister indicate by which law that should not be the case? Otherwise, you better not make a law. Can the Minister clarify this? We've seen the disturbing reports about the layoffs that fall. Can the Minister support the remark that you can conclude from this that they can be traced directly from this law? Can the Minister also indicate how many people have already lost their jobs through the Work and Security Act? That was my last question. Saves another two minutes on today's schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u26	Mr. Chairman. I want to start with two examples, because they came to my desk today. I had a special conversation this morning with a 62-year-old bus driver from North Brabant. He worked through a temporary employment agency which was a bit strange construction, but that happens quite a lot in public transport and he had been on the bus for the past six months, and the years before that also, 40 hours a week. He was a very valued employee. However, when he asked about his contract, he was told: before July 1st you will be out. Of course, he was angry, pretty angry. He was angry with his employer, but also with us as a legislator. However, we received the nice message this morning that he was waiting for the letter in which he would receive his permanent contract, because it was nevertheless possible to realize that. But I didn't have that conversation this morning because of that good outcome, but because of two fantastic remarks he made. First of all, he wondered in his mind whether his work was only about the money. His second comment was more about me personally, as a legislator. He said to me: you did mean well, legislator, but does everyone also handle it well? I liked that statement. I think even those who have not supported this law give this law on parts a 10. The intention of this is widely supported. But two days after the law comes into force, we see how it works in practice, and then what do we come across? It certainly stands out that the silence surrounding the legal treatment is over. There has been a lot of attention to the law and a lot of problems have been raised in recent weeks. Oh, yeah, before I forget, let me give you the second example. That was indeed about the campsite. A gentleman e-mailed me that his wife has been working on the campsite for six months to the full. He was wondering if this could stay that way, because he had heard signals after all. I very much hope that can continue to be the case. To start with this seasonal work: I also very much hope for a consultation between the social partners. I read this minister's many interviews last weekend. He said his door's open. I'll ask the Minister if they've come in yet. We have just received a message from Mr Heerts. He, too, says that consultations are taking place. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is the case and whether this consultation will produce any results in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u27	I think it would be useful for Mrs Vermeij to conclude her speech. Then there's an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u28	Fine, then I'll finish my speech. I have a few other questions. With the law alone, you're not here yet. How that law works is also quite important. It is still too early, but there are three fundamental questions to ask. To what extent do the problems outlined in recent times relate to the transition from one regime to another? To what extent is there a real problem? I would also like to hear the Minister on this. A second big question relates to the fact that parts of this law, which my group very much supports, are actually not exposed. I'll give you two. Working during your WW is now possible. So you can keep some of that. I would like to emphasise this once again, because I do not think many people know this yet. I think that the next point is partly the cause of the recent boom in reports we are getting on the Work and Security Act. Despite the extensive communication campaign, we find that employees and especially small entrepreneurs have not yet been able to acquire sufficient knowledge and skills of this law. How will we deal with this in the coming months? The third part, which is incredibly important to my group and to which we should pay much more attention, which I believe is very much shared by a large number of groups in this House, is the transition from work to work in the event of imminent dismissal. The social partners are also in the process of doing so. I hope that they will soon come forward with good proposals on this point too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u29	On the day that the Chamber decided that this debate should be held before the summer, there was a great article in the NRC about the care in this Chamber about the law. On behalf of the PvdA Group, Mrs Vermeij specifically expressed her concern about the effects on seasonal work. In this debate, I hear her asking questions to the Minister. Does it agree with a number of other groups in this House that the Minister should also actively invite employers and employees to discuss how these seasonal work problems can be avoided? Otherwise, even small family businesses in seasonal work may be in trouble this summer. That is something we must try to avoid. We can't move that to the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u30	I'm not there. I would first like to know whether the parties concerned, both employers' and employees' organisations, are at the table to discuss this problem and what discussions they are having at the moment. I don't have that information yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u31	I have two more questions about the concern expressed by the PvdA Group both in the NRC and here in the debate. What would be wrong with the Minister to actively invite them? That only accelerates a solution. Does the PvdA group not rule out the fact that, if it is not convinced in this debate that there is progress in these talks, the Minister will still have to invite the unions and employers to a discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u32	Yes, but in that order. That is the answer to Mr Heerma's last question. As far as his first question is concerned, I am very honoured that he has so much faith in this Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. So does the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u33	One of the points is that, in sectors, you may now deviate from the chain definition for certain specific functions and work, but this does not apply to the provision that contracts should be held for six months. Looks like it's getting a little tight right now. Does Mrs Vermeij agree with D66 that if there was a bottleneck, we should just be able to change the law for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u34	No, because I am also looking very specifically at sectors where this problem arises. I do not agree that this should be done generically, across the board. Nor did Mr Van Weyenberg, but I would like to stress it for a moment, because we know that in recent decades there have been incredibly many sectors taking advantage of all these provisions. This also happened at the expense of the government: nine months in it, three months out. Besides, it wasn't just ordinary companies that worked like that, it also happened in the semi-public sector. We don't want that. I do see a specific problem in seasonal work where there are six, seven or eight months of work per year for people who want to be used for it year in, year out, which may or may not lead to great satisfaction of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u35	I wasn't talking about work for nothing, the intrinsic nature of which dictates that it pinches. I meant seasonal work, as is done in the recreation sector. I'm glad Mrs Vermeij sees it that way. I have a second question. If the cabinet sends a letter to the Chamber stating that someone who has an indefinite contract with a payroll organization gets a permanent contract with DUO, don't you think that promise is guilty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u36	You have already asked the question as to what exactly that is. I find it complicated to talk about very individual contracts. However, we have exchanged fairly firm words here about how to act according to the letter and spirit of the law, both in the direction of ING and of the government itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u37	The advantage of all these interviews is that you get quite a lot of information. In an interview in the AD, the Minister said that he calls on employers and employees to come to him if they experience bottlenecks. He added as a disclaimer that the solution should serve both sides. We've seen that there's a problem with seasonal work. Mrs Vermeij wants the social partners to try to solve this first. However, the Minister has already indicated that he has made certain exceptions. Is Mrs Vermeij of the opinion that the Minister can simply get on this point as well? After all, he made the call himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u38	That is a question that Mrs Schouten must ask the Minister. Is this a bottleneck and have the social partners already called to ask if they can come by? That's not a question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u39	I put it to Mrs Vermeij because the Chamber can give a push in the right direction. We can also ask the Minister to look at the specific case of seasonal workers at the campsites. The season's starting now, we have a problem. We can say to the Minister: do something about it and sit down with the parties, as you yourself have called for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u40	But then my answer is clip-and-ready: no. I believe that the social partners, both the workers' and employers' organisations, should open their own discussions on this issue. They themselves must exchange views and find a solution, with the law in their hand and the aim of allowing as many workers as possible to work to the satisfaction of employers. I don't know if they did that or what came out of it. If it doesn't work out, I'd advise the Minister to invite them. In fact, let them take the initiative to visit him. After all, that was the call made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u41	Mrs Vermeij asks the Minister whether dumping flex workers is temporary and whether it is a problem. Mrs Hamer and I have made an initiative law and we saw this problem coming. That is why we have put forward proposals for a dismissal allowance from day one and a higher WW premium for more flex workers. Is the Labour Party prepared to re-examine Mrs Hammer's wonderful proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr Ulenbelt has made more proposals. We are still waiting for one of the proposals. This is about the drafting of Mrs Hammer's motion on payrolling. By the way, this initiative has been overtaken by a wonderful social agreement, which unfortunately has not been fully supported by the SP, and the Work and Security Act which contains incredibly many of these ideas, namely looking for a new balance, which means flex with more certainty. That's what we're gonna do. On the other hand, there must be less certainty and a fairer system of dismissal. We wholeheartedly support that. The law is in force for two days. It seems to me to be a good thing to keep a close eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u43	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u44	That is a long answer, but it is not an answer to my question. The problems we are now seeing are also identified by HR managers and others: this leads to a faster revolving door and more flex contracts of 23 months. We were aware of it at the time, and Mrs Hammer was aware of it. Mrs. Vermeij is getting the hang of it, too. But she'd have to embrace Mrs. Hamer's solution, wouldn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u45	With this law in our hands, we don't have to accept faster revolving doors. But we have to keep our eyes open. The example I gave this morning has a successful outcome, namely a permanent contract for a 62-year-old, and this should be done in more places. This requires, in addition to this law, active employment and good employership. We can fight for that together, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u46	Mrs Vermeij and I had just had a little debate about what the government itself can do. It is right that this Minister flagged back the DUO when these people who did not just meet the two-year requirement wanted to fire. But the government can also do other things, such as in the case of invitations to tender and the short term in which subsidies are provided. Shouldn't that even happen? Isn't that one of the underlying problems that makes employers employ people so short?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u47	There is a world to be won in the procurement conditions that the government itself lays down. I'm a little reluctant to tell the congregations from here exactly how to fill that out. But I always want to have that debate with you. I believe that this can be done much better in many places, even when it comes to short-term grant conditions. But we must realise that we are not changing that between now and two minutes. But I would certainly like to enter into this debate with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u48	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u49	I'm glad to hear that. Mrs Vermeij is right to say that we cannot make that decision here by decree. But perhaps it is an idea to ask the Minister to consult local authorities and social partners on this issue. How does Mrs Vermeij feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u50	I would like to start the debate with you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mr. Chairman. The law we're talking about just entered. The minister called it exciting how this law is going to work out, and the VVD feels the same tension. There's a lot of discussion whether this law is going to do what it has to do. Yesterday, for example, I received a large poster from Mrs De Blécourt, a labour law lawyer, on which she described how complicated this law really is. We are very curious. A few months ago, the VVD called attention to the seasonal workers. How does this work out for them? The Minister then undertook, in January, six months after the entry into force of this law, to present a picture of the situation of seasonal work. In one of the numerous interviews last Saturday, we read at NU.nl that the minister does not want to wait until January, but that he himself sees and acknowledges the problem. There is a danger that companies will shrink. Then the work is gone. In the article, "Asscher is open to adjustment Dismissal Act for seasonal work." It is good that the Minister is prepared to amend the law if necessary. He also said he would like to see, if there are any problems, the trade unions and trade unions come to him together to see what we can do. What does the VVD hear about this law? Over the last few days I have had discussions with MaintenanceNL, the trade association of painters, glasmakers and people who do renovations. They said to me: Mr Mulder, we are talking about this with the union, with CNV and FNV. They also mentioned the names, namely Mr Peter Roos of FNV and Mr Roel van Dijk of CNV, who say that they do recognise the problem, but that they should not really say that of their superiors. When I asked Mr Maas, he said: Mrs Mariëtte Patijn, the collective co-ordinator of the FNV, is probably behind this. She is now nicknamed "Miss njet" in the polder. I don't know if it's true, but that's what I'm receiving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u52	In my opinion, we in the House of Representatives have the good use of not scorning, mocking or anything people who are not here and who cannot defend themselves in the debate. I therefore ask Mr Mulder to take back these words and to engage in the public debate with her outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u53	I would just like to make the point that it is unusual to mention the names of colleagues or others if they cannot defend themselves. Anyway, Mr Ulenbelt has already put that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u54	I realize that. I wasn't going to do this either, until I read on NOW.nl that Mr Heerts said that I suck those stories out of my thumb. Mr Heerts is the chairman of the FNV. That's the reason to just put it that way. Now that people say I suck stories out of my thumb, I just call them names and names. I realize very well that people can't defend themselves. But, also in the last few weeks, I don't think people in the union have fallen on their mouths either. I did it with great restraint. However, now that it is said that the VVD sucks stories, I say it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u55	You can defend yourself, but you can't make it personal. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u56	I think you are quite right to say that. Mrs Patijn is a former colleague of mine at FNV Bondgenoten. I can assure Mr Mulder that this nickname is absolutely unjustified. But perhaps Mr Mulder himself should enter into the conversation with Mrs Patijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u57	I have a question for Mr Mulder about the other names he mentioned. It indicates that it has received signals from certain sectoral negotiators. Did these people know that Mr Mulder was going to mention their names in the debate? If the answer to that question is no, then it was not careful to do so here either. I have also received signals that there is pressure on certain companies to keep to agreements that have been made. However, as a Chamber, we are also responsible for the names we mention here, especially if they are not known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u58	The answer to the question is no. I'm doing it with a certain restraint. I hold back, but it makes me... I think Mr Heerma would like to make another point before I go back to the substance. I think that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u59	I call on Mr Mulder to deal with this more carefully in future. We, too, are getting signals, but I find it very careless to use employees in a debate on the House, when they are not familiar with it. I urge Mr Mulder not to do that anymore. If he has something to say to senior management in unions, then he can do so in the debate, because tall trees catch a lot of wind. But to involve employees in this way, I find really careless, and he shouldn't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u60	I think this point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u61	I would like to inform Mr Mulder that cutting down on people in this house and on the trade union movement does not bring the solutions to real problems any closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u62	I take very good note of what my colleagues have said. I'm very reluctant about that myself, but I feel a restrained anger in me. Perhaps the FNV won't stop it, but it would be very cynical anyway. Mr Van Weyenberg used the word "prestige" if you were to abandon seasonal workers for political and strategic reasons. Surely that cannot be the purpose of what we would all want? I'm angry about that, if that's the case. In an earlier debate I mentioned Mr Han Fleuren, a tree grower, who spoke about the collective agreement on open crops. He said we're trying to discuss seasonal work, and what does the union do? It says that it is mainly an employer's problem; we take it with us, but we want other things in return. Apparently there is no attitude in the polder: we solve that seasonal work together. Apparently, there's a negotiation game being played. That would just be a shame for the seasonal workers who want to get to work! This should concern entrepreneurs and trade unions! That anger makes me name these names, but I'll make my life better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u63	That seems to me to be an important commitment from Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u64	It's in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u65	I also mentioned polder prestige, but I did not mention names at all, because I did not think that was appropriate. I have another question. Anger is one thing and I find it interesting, but the big question is, of course, what are you going to do about it? I therefore paraphrase the question that Mr Mulder has just asked Mrs Voortman. Too often I see anger with Mr Mulder about things in the polder, and empty hands when we try to change things with motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u66	This is what my group wants to do. That's what I'm gonna suggest. The social agreement has been concluded between employers and employees. It is then very obvious that they will also talk about a solution. They need to talk constructively. That is also my question to the Minister. How does he ensure that parties sit at the table and find constructive solutions for seasonal work? And what is the Minister going to do if the social partners don't get out of there? That's my final question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u67	Well, that's striking, isn't it? I doubt whether Mr Mulder's tone has contributed to the chances of constructive solutions. But what does he think now? He's actually just looking at the minister. After the great anger, to quote Mr Mulder, I find the question "what is the Minister going to do?" It's a very weak offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u68	It begins with the parties who have concluded the social agreement. I think they are the first to see how they can resolve this constructively. If that works, it'd be nice. If that does not work, there is a responsibility for the Minister of Employment to pull that cart off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u69	Finally, Mrs Schouten van de ChristenUnion... Mrs Voortman, you must be a little quick to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u70	Apologies, chairman, and thank you for your coulance. I have also made a number of proposals. One of these proposals was to allow the second contract to last longer. How would Mr Mulder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u71	That is an interesting proposal in itself, but the question is whether it is now being discussed. First, I want to know how the Minister solves these problems before we re-adjust the Work and Security Act. However, I have listened carefully to Mrs Voortman, and also to what she said in her term about seasonal work at campsites. I keep listening to her, but I'm first looking at how the minister can solve cases within the law as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u72	Of course you can't. Mr Mulder challenged me to indicate what proposals I am making. So the moment I make a proposal, he should also indicate what he thinks about it. It's hob or calf now. What does Mr Mulder think?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u73	I find it interesting what Mrs Voortman says. Actually, she might run a little for the troops. I find that striking, but first I look at the Minister and the social partners. What can they do? But I keep Mrs Voortman's proposals in mind. If this were to be discussed, I might call on her support again. She's running a little too far for the VVD, which is a compliment, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u74	Mr. Chairman. I missed the Minister this weekend. In the Reformatorisch Dagblad we understand, because in all the other newspapers he was. The Minister's message in most of those interviews was that he does not want to see the employee as a cost item and that flex workers are entitled to better protection. Let me make it clear straight away that this is also why we have supported the Work and Security Act. It is a justified appeal from this minister. In fact, we should not regard workers as a cost-effective item. It's about the employee's intrinsic value and what he can do for a company. Fortunately, I also see many employers looking at it that way. However, this cannot hide the fact that the run-up to this law has been rather shocking. That's what my question is about right away. The Minister states in the various interviews that he will monitor the law. He will await the case-law to see how the law is implemented and whether problems arise. I think that is a somewhat passive attitude. Does the Minister have any idea how many people are more or less related to the date of entry into force of this law? Does he know what effect this law has had before the entry date? Has he monitored that yet? I'd like to hear more about that. We have often talked about the position of the government itself. Unfortunately, I still get signals that municipalities and the Empire are not doing as well everywhere. Do these signals reach the Minister? Does he agree with me that the government should be the first to set a good example by offering these people a contract and not sending them home because this law enters into force? I would like a concrete answer to this. Now we come to the jumping point of today's seasonal work. There are indeed many campers who are currently wondering a bit in a panic what to do. As I said in an interruption, the Minister said that people with these problems are welcome and that he will work with them to see how they can be resolved. But I'm getting signals that these employers have already been to the minister's office, and that he then said: go first with the social partners and see how to get there. I do not think that this is in line with the Minister's call in all these newspapers. Can he confirm that? What will the Minister do himself if the social partners fail to come out? An interview with Mr Heerts has just been published at NU.nl, but talks have been going on for a long time. The Minister knows that, too. Does the Minister intend to step in to create a solution for the specific case of seasonal work at campsites? Now I come to the role of the social partners as a whole. I have already said in previous debates that they were the ones who concluded this social agreement. They agreed that, for example, we received a transition fee and that we went to flex contracts of up to two years. We have had intensive discussions about this in which we have expressed our doubts. Because how is this law going to work? I still think that's a complicated question. We'll keep the finger on the wrist. Is the Minister once again prepared to address the social partners on their responsibilities? How do they communicate with their own supporters about this? How do they act on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u75	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I note that the Minister would like a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u76	Mr. Chairman. It is a special moment to have this debate. Yesterday, the Work and Security Act entered into force. About a year ago, the law was passed by the Upper House. A lot of work has been done and the law raises many expectations, but he has also called for a lot of discussion in recent times. It is good that we are aware that for years there has been talk about the protection of people with insecure work and a temporary contract, about the right of dismissal in the Netherlands and the interaction between them, and about the WW. Then you can see that there is agreement on the desire to help people get to work earlier and to provide more security, but that there is total disagreement on the way forward. Part of the parties say that you should actually relax the right of dismissal considerably, that you should protect people much less and that you shouldn't have so many rules. Another part says: you have to make flex as expensive and as complicated as possible. The Netherlands has spent years with great pleasure and passion in this debate, but they did not come out. All attempts to do so have been stranded. Two years ago, employers and employees said that, in their view, a balance can be struck which preserves all forms of flexible work, reduces the cost of dismissal, achieves more clarity and allows a person in permanent employment to have a fixed contract after two years. Now that we have just crossed the threshold of this new law, the question arises as to whether it will succeed. We do not know for sure; this is always the case with such major changes. I think we have done everything we can to make it work. It then depends on the employers and employees in our country and, moreover, on how companies and sectors are doing. In the meantime, 400,000 workers are covered by a collective agreement which lays down these agreements and lays down that security. That's why I called it exciting. I recognise and recognise this tension with Mr Mulder and I appreciate that we want to achieve the same thing. There is, of course, a lot of discussion about what is happening in certain sectors. The subject of seasonal work has been discussed before. I know that a number of Members of Parliament have, among other things, asked Mr Mulder and Mr Heerma to pay particular attention to this. I also listened to this earlier when we talked about the risk of retroactive effect on the transition fee. Last weekend I told the media about the new law; some Members pointed this out. I have done this mainly because I think it is important to highlight the objectives of the law once again. I have the impression that I have done this partly on behalf of the Chamber, because we very much agree on these objectives. I have indeed said that I also hear the stories about the seasonal work and that I realize that it is indeed difficult for some companies. I am not saying that it is insoluble, because the law offers all kinds of possibilities for all kinds of contract forms, but it is difficult. I've added that my door is open. What does this mean? If, on the basis of a joint problem analysis, the social partners come to the conclusion that something has to be done and if they have a solution that is of mutual interest, then I, as a minister, would be crazy if I said: go. I would like to look at such a solution very favourably. You can do that on weekends and evenings. That door's open. Then there is the question of whether people are talking to each other, because everyone is acting so unkindly. I'm sorry that people are being so unkind to each other, which always bothers me, and it doesn't help. When people hear the bosses of employers or the bosses of employees all say ugly things, they think: Apparently things are going very badly and the Dutch model with which you try to make changes together is not there anymore or we don't think that is important anymore. I find that very regrettable. In my opinion, employers and workers in this country have much more common interests than differences. There are differences. I am aware of this and I know that there are employers who see workers only as a tricky machine part that you would like to replace as cheaply as possible. I also know, however, that the majority of Dutch companies attach great importance to the workers and that the vast majority of the workers are loyal to the companies where they work. They are therefore also sensitive to the economic problems they face. So my call is to keep it a little more normal of tone. I don't think it's right to accuse MPs of lying either. I can therefore very well imagine that Mr Mulder felt addressed. However, I am also pleased that he will not make a habit of raising people who do not belong to the very high trees of the trade union or employers' organisation here. Then you will have a well-naïve debate that we cannot verify here. What about it? Are they talking to each other or is this really forbidden? I received an e-mail this morning from Mrs Patijn, on behalf of Gerard van der Grind of LTO. That's a name I'm allowed to mention here. It says: "A debate on the Work and Security Act is planned today. Seasonal work in agriculture and horticulture will undoubtedly be discussed. We would like to inform you that FNV and LTO are in consultation to settle seasonal work in these sectors, in which both parties have the willingness to come up with a good solution. We are trying to reach central agreements in the agricultural and horticultural sector. We would like to continue the discussion shortly and hope that you will be able to take this into account in the debate." Then follows a 06-number on which the scribent is accessible, but I will not mention that here. This message, on the eve, or rather in the morning of a debate on this important law, I take it seriously. The two parties concerned shall enter into consultations with a view to reaching a solution. Undoubtedly, there are people who will say: it must not be blocked. Both sides, both LTO and employee training in this sector, may sometimes tend to think that through publicity or through parliament they achieve a better negotiating position than just a conversation. I am sure that the Chamber does not want to be a party to this, because we share the view that the social partners are moving forward. They have indicated that they are working on it in the interests of both parties and that they are aiming for a solution. I invite them to dinner with me in the month of August to tell me how things are going, not to let it get forgotten. However, I do not intend to interfere in the content of their conversation. That would not be appropriate. They themselves are much better able to determine what is in the interests of the sector and of the workers in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u77	I do not entirely agree with the Minister. If there is a stalemate and this leads to unemployment, then, of course, politics does come into the picture. Then we're not just looking at the polder. However, I welcome what the Minister has just said. Sounds like good news. For far too long, we've heard that this conversation isn't starting. I hope this will also lead to delivery. I have two questions for the Minister. First of all... He now mentions agriculture and horticulture. That's good. However, many parties have also expressed concerns about the recreational sector and tourism. Is there a similar constructive consultation going on there? My group would very much welcome that. Second. If it turns out, for example, that the provision that you should not have been in service for six months in order to make a new chain stand in the way of a solution in certain sectors, is the Minister prepared to look critically at the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u78	I agree with the first part of Mr Van Weyenberg's statement in general. A long-term stalemate, in which parties are not aimed at moving into another, will automatically come back to politics. However, we must also beware of the reverse, namely that negotiating parties think that they can artificially strengthen their position by doing it through parliament or the minister. However, I think we understand each other very well. The second point could give rise to this. If I say that I will delete those six months if we do not get out of it, the positions of those who negotiate will be changed. So I don't want to make that statement. However, the law does provide for the possibility, following a joint request from employees and employers and after my assessment, of non-application of the chain clause as a whole. So you don't suffer from that six-month period. So there is that possibility. The law offers it. I don't want to go much further than that now. I do not have to, because I think that the law, in addition to the possibilities already available within the contracts and within the collective agreement to deviate from the main provisions of the law, also contains this possibility. This has recently been applied to brake plaques.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u79	I understood from the interviews with the Minister that, because of the intrinsic nature of the work, he saw this derogation in the 6x4, i.e. the number of contracts in a number of years, but not in the intermediate period of six months. If the Minister now explicitly confirms that this can be done, I think this is already a gain in this debate. I also asked him about sectors other than agriculture and horticulture, because I am very concerned about holiday and amusement parks and ice cream parlors, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u80	When you no longer need 6x4, you can solve that with a multitude of temporary contracts. This means that the intermediate period is less important. I am not aware of such a conversation from the recreation sector, but the same applies to this. Although I think that seasonal work can be better defined and defined what is needed and in what season, you can see more differences in the recreational sector, which is also a wider sector. This is also the case when employers and employees join forces and report to me together, and I enter into that conversation with them. It is not 'we have appointed two workers who now represent the interests of the workers', but if it brings with it a serious representation, I have to take a serious look at it. That's what I want to do. In fact, that is in line with what Mr Mulder said: just as Minister for Employment, you want to make the rules so that the balance for everyone gets better and that you then take into account customization, specific sectors and specific collective agreements, so that an optimum balance can be found within that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u81	The e-mail that the Minister has just read is, in my view, a positive signal, also because it has been signed by employers and employees. In my opinion, the Minister has also indicated in interviews that he is cautious and cautious in taking a step which would benefit either side. Because this signal has now come from both sides and because the problems of seasonal work may soon be raised by individual family businesses and small entrepreneurs, some urgency is needed in this process. Is the combination of these two elements not a reason for the Minister to actively invite them to hold the discussion on this subject, also because he himself has indicated that there are really problems here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u82	I just did. I have said that I will invite them to come and report back to me in August, not because I am going to say who is right, but because I want to take this e-mail as a positive signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u83	Sorry, I did not get that part of the answer. It is a good thing that the Minister wants to do that and that he wants to do it this summer. In what period can we, as a Chamber in writing, get a feedback from this, given the wide-ranging concerns that exist about this and the problems that may arise in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u84	I will report to you at the beginning of the parliamentary year on whether I was invited and, if so, what that resulted in. And if not, it'll be a short note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u85	The Minister has just spoken about agriculture and horticulture and the reaction sector. In previous consultations and in an earlier letter the problems in primary education were discussed. The Minister also mentioned discussions with the sports federations in relation to trainers. In fact, this gives you a cumulation of different sectors that see this six-month period as a major objection. Can the Minister tell us what effect this will have on the discussions he has had so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u86	I see a change in primary education; I see a trend break there. After a lot of discussions last year about the introduction and after some worrying reports from school directors, you can see that many school boards and also the PO Council are now tackling it in a different way. Creative solutions, partnerships and pools are created within which substitute forces are recruited. I think that is very positive. It is also nice to say something positive about how education handles this. Contrary to the examples mentioned earlier, it was the workers who needed the chain determination in this form and it was the employers who were concerned about this. The problems in primary education are not all gone. You can see that the smaller, the single school boards, who are not in a region where such a partnership has been established, are still facing problems. For this purpose, the collective agreement has been renewed for one year. In any case, we have until 1 July 2016 to find solutions. However, I do feel that I am partly responsible for helping to solve that problem. However, this does not require an amendment of the law or an exception to the chain clause, but it requires that you consider how you could be of service to those very small parties in particular. Mr Klein mentioned another sector: the sports federations. This also applies to the fact that the most important change can and must come from the organisations themselves. I have indicated that I am willing to help with information on professionalisation. That is what is happening. For a number of very specific sports functions I have been asked for an exception. In two cases, I've allowed it, too. This involved the coaches paying football and the football players themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u87	Maybe I can ask the Minister to indicate in early 2016 what we now have in total? It's starting to be a real sad thing. Perhaps it would be wise to inform the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u88	I have promised to give the Chamber a look at the introduction of the budget. Again, I would like to remind those who say 'what waits you long to evaluate' that the normal time limit to look at the effect of a law is five years; for the chain determination we have gone to three years. In-depth conclusions, one day after the introduction of the law, are therefore somewhat premature. I promised to give the Chamber a look at how it was introduced. It is then a question of: how did the introduction of the new WW that we have talked about a few times over the last few weeks? But also: what do you see happening in practice? I will therefore update the use of any exceptions that may be permitted by the law, so that the Court has an overall overview of all sectors in which they have taken place and in which sectors they have not. Some speakers have said that they would actually like to change the law now, rather radically indeed. In any case, they have made that suggestion. It is about the chain determination to three years, as suggested by Members Heerma and Voortman, but also about the transition fee from day one, as suggested by Members Ulenbelt and Voortman. The beginning of my speech was that it was the search for a balance. In searching for that balance, it is tempting to keep turning the buttons, but that also makes it very vulnerable. After all, the moment you do one thing, a lot of others will say that the balance is disturbed at the disadvantage of the other, or in the advantage of the other. That's not why I'm here. I fully understand that if we come to the conclusion that the law does not contribute sufficiently to the decent labour market we all want in the Netherlands, you will have to look at how to improve that balance. After all, it is about the goal that we are pursuing here. However, it seems too early to me to reach that conclusion on 2 July, without having been able to see what the real effect is. We are now talking about expectations, estimates, transition problems and companies who wanted to avoid their risks at the time the new law was introduced. So you can't see the effect of the law itself yet. I therefore think it is too early to make any very radical changes of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u89	However, 6% of the people working with this law in daily practice from yesterday, the bosses' personnel department, says it leads to permanent jobs. It is also said that, as I have argued before, it leads to 23-month revolving door contracts. The Minister has to see that coming, doesn't he? It is advertised onhr-sites and so on. Surely the Minister can't be blind to the division that's coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u90	I have indicated before that you are sure that not everyone will get a fixed contract now but that it is about whether the law will improve more people than the old law. Indeed, there is a response to that law. Constructions are invented, people make things up. But that really doesn't tell us how it's going to work in practice, because there's going to be more to it. That is why it is also good to mention the good examples, which we are now seeing, of a number of large collective agreements, of a number of companies that are making a different choice. This does not lead to major media coverage, but it is at least equally relevant. Of sectors that make a choice, which give up some pay space, but which ensure that many more people are employed. Whether it is the hospital-cao or the new construction-cao, RTL or the CFP in Amsterdam, these are choices that are also made. In other words, yes, I see that there are all kinds of surveys, I see that there are all kinds of definite statements, but it is the practice of the law, which we do not yet know. I can very well imagine that, from Mr Ulenbelt's perspective, the law could be improved by a higher WW premium for flexible work and a transition fee from day one. However, I am sure that this would be seen by a number of other parties as a significant deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u91	Finally, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u92	If the people in the country are doing well, we don't have to make laws; then those people are doing well, in this case employers and employees. But we are making a law for those cases where things aren't going well, which the staff bosses and the CNV also expect the revolving door to turn harder, with more people in the first two years? These companies don't even break the law. They're not illegal. That is why the Minister must always say: I appeal to your morality. But we don't make laws for that, do we? So, Minister, don't chase that boat to iceberg and do something now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u93	This is in danger of becoming a repeat. It is also not a question of appealing to morality, except that all the laws we make are also based on an assessment of what you consider desirable and not desirable for society. In the end, it is the companies that weigh up the way in which they shape the employment relationship with their employees. That is why labour law is of paramount importance. Labour law is not only there for those who do badly; it regulates the relationship between employer and employee. That is why the choice is now being made, with the support of the vast majority of this Chamber, that people are ready after two years to be or not to be permanently employed. The consideration of why this will happen in one case and not in the other case is not the same for every company and not for every employee. That differs from one case to another. For example, an employer has invested in an employee. Take the example of a good welder that he may have had to train for six or seven months before he is skilled. An employer who comes to the conclusion after two years that that person fits well with the team and is a fine colleague, comes to consider that in order to avoid any risk he will now send away this person and give another the same expensive, intensive training, or that he will continue with this person. Those are considerations that you can't just grasp in a 23-month construction. Indeed, it can, you can give people a contract that ends for that two-year term. But I'll give you a note that you don't have everyone in a fixed contract, even with the SP proposals. You can only do that if you nationalize all the companies. And that too is ultimately not good for employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u94	The Minister just indicated that we should first consider how the law works in practice. But the interesting thing is, of course, that you can see that in part already. Childcare organisations that employ people with a temporary contract are already saying: let's fire people now, so we don't have to pay the transition fee, so we don't have to be at that time. So that's what's killing people right now. What does the Cabinet do to prevent such situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u95	I don't think you can say on the second day that a law is in force that you know how that law works. You can see that companies react to such a law. In a labour market of 8 million people there are many stories and many reactions, all of which are true, but honestly you cannot say, one year after that change, when the right of dismissal has been changed after 70 years: we know how that law works. Nor can you say, one day after the entry into force, when flex law has been changed after 20 years, that I know how that law works. In the event of major changes, you always see that they are anticipated. In the event of major changes, you always see that companies that just exit the crisis avoid any risk first. This is the ultimate case in child care. In the end, however, all these companies and all these workers are concerned with the question of what is the right form for the employment relationship. You cannot say on the basis of the examples on day two of the functioning of the law that you already know how the law will work over the years. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u96	When we dealt with the law, of course, we were worried that this would be one of the effects. Now we see that there are indeed employers who say that they will not keep people in service for two years, because they do not know whether they can keep them in service in the longer term. In that sense, it doesn't matter that the law has only been in force for two days. We knew in advance that these could be the effects, and we can see that now. There is no reason to think that employers will act differently in one or two years' time. That uncertainty will always be there. It is better to fix something now and make the law a success after all than to conclude in three years' time that there are so many people who have lost their jobs and then change the law. It's better to fix it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u97	The remark "no matter how long the law is in force" is a very remarkable attitude towards a law that you yourself voted for. I think it matters. It's not like we're gonna sit around and wait three years. We are in constant discussions about the labour market, and therefore also about the functioning of this law. We have also shown that this can lead to adaptation if necessary. To say today, on day two, that we are one-sidedly disrupting the balance of the law between employers and employees, I really do not appreciate the weight of legislative practice and of this house. A law has been passed, and you don't know all the effects in advance. That's true in all laws. If you know everything, you don't have to take the law. We have agreed to carry out an early evaluation, precisely because this is considered to be very important. That applies both to Mrs Voortman and to me. On day two, I find it out of order to say: let us now change the law considerably. Then you're really experimenting. I don't think that's wise. We've been asked to sit and wait. The answer to that is no. We're gonna keep looking at this. If any of my problems come to my attention, I'd like to respond to them. I shall discuss this with the Chamber in full transparency. I'm not gonna appeal to all parties. I think that those who are responsible for their ranks themselves have a great task to do, for example, in providing good information on the ins and outs of the law. What is and what is not on the agenda? Try to talk about this as realistically as possible. This is in the interests of employers and employees. Mr Heerma and Mrs Voortman asked about the possibility of long-term temporary contracts. I looked at it because they talked about it during the legal process. We are talking about long-term, non-intermediate contracts. The advantage of this would be that you are employed longer, but from the employer's perspective there is the disadvantage that he can't do anything during that long-term period. He has to pay the whole contract. In addition, a transition fee will be due afterwards. That is why I discussed with the social partners whether there is a need for this and whether this meets a need in the market. Would employers make use of this? Would that be in the interests of both parties? The message at that time was 'I say 'then' 'unisono no'. I fully understand the need for this. I would, however, like to say to the Chamber that I will again present this possibility if I invite the social partners to discuss it. At the time, a motion was passed by the Chamber that asked to look into this. That creates an obligation for me to do so seriously. I did, and I came to the conclusion that it wouldn't do much good. I therefore undertake to discuss this again with the social partners. If we look at it differently now, or if it is more attractive than was thought at the time, this could be an improvement. Mr Ulenbelt asked about the recent publication in the Volkskrant on dismissal applications at UWV shortly before yesterday. It even referred to a discharge wave. I think that word doesn't fit in with the numbers we're talking about right now. Although there is an increase in week 26 compared to the weeks before, if you look at the number per month or quarterly, you can hardly see a change. I find the word 'dismissal wave' a bit hysterical in the light of the real discharge waves that we have been getting over us in recent years in the crisis. If you look at it at monthly or quarterly levels, you barely see anything. Earlier this year UWV saw peaks that were close to the number we saw in the week before 1 July. Moreover, I do not rule out the fact that before 1 July employers still apply for dismissal in order to avoid the transition fee. This means that they just want to make use of an injustice in the old dismissal law, in which you did not get anything along one route and via the other route the canton court formula. One of the reasons why we are adjusting the right of dismissal is precisely that we believe that a real compensation, not very high but not free, should be available to everyone and not just to those who have the advantage of getting to the canton court. A dismissal application is not the same as a dismissal permit. If the conditions are not met, then there will be a refusal. UWV will do so in the way it always does, i.e. carefully. I am not going to look at it very suspiciously, but I insist that it goes exactly as carefully as it should go with every application. If there is no ground, if there are no good reasons, it is not allowed. Mr De Graaf asked how many people lost their jobs by the Work and Security Act. Mrs Schouten asked for monitoring the introduction effects. I will not deny that there are certain relationships. You can see that companies want to anticipate, anticipate, cover their risks. Earlier, I indicated how I see it. I can't give you any numbers. There is no registration, including the reason why a contract is not renewed. There may be a multitude of grounds behind that. It is even conceivable that it is someone who did not already function properly, saying that it is the law's fault. Vice versa does, too. You can also hire someone because her name is Mrs. Schouten and you love her. So there is no perfect record of it, but I can see that there are transitional problems here and there. This kind of strategic behaviour in such major legislative changes cannot be ruled out or avoided. I think it is a good thing that we take the legislation into account for smaller companies. This was done with an amendment by the VVD on the transition fee for SMEs. We are right to take older workers into account by allowing for a higher transition fee over a number of years. In this way, we mitigate the transitional problems that are always there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u98	The Minister says he has no exact figures, but we are told by the media that there is a real peak in the number of dismissal applications. I assume the Minister also reads the newspaper and that he may have thrown a phone call to the canton judges. Is that image recognized? Do you see a rise like that? The Minister speaks of strategic behaviour when the law is introduced, but there are more and more of these strategic moments, for example after two years. Then the choice is whether someone should be taken into permanent employment. In other words, this behavior may persist for a while. Does the Minister recognise that and, if so, what does he have in his back pocket to prevent this from becoming a real practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u99	I have just told Mr Ulenbelt that we have UWV figures. I do not have a complete overview of the applications to canton judges. There's no record of that either. A phone call with a number of canton judges is fine for the newspaper, but that's not the kind of information I'm doing the Chamber a lot of service with. It would also be very unwise if you indicated to the canton judge: I am doing this now, because I want to benefit from a cheaper discharge procedure. A good canton judge won't honor this immediately. It's true that you see strategic behavior around such a big change. It is also true that there will be many more strategic moments. That's different, of course. You cannot say: that is the case 1 July 2017. That's different. This depends on the deadlines, the collective agreements in the various sectors and the individual contract of employment concerned. That's not new either. It is always the case that at the end of the employment there is a strategic moment when the question arises whether you are going to go further or not. Under the old law, under the old chain clause, it was also the case that over time you will be faced with the choice of whether it is a permanent employment or not. That's changed. Life already consists of a large number of strategic moments. The same applies to labour law. It is true that changes have been made to this new legislation. This balance must ensure that, when there is permanent and structural work, people are in more cases given the employment associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u100	I'd like it to work that way, too. The Minister says: I do not know exactly, but at least there is some progress in it. However, I note from a number of data that strategic behaviour does occur. That's what we expected. If we get any more of these strategic moments, I'd like to hear the Minister say: watch out for good people; if this continues, I'm going to get this or that from the stables. He might be able to stop it from happening by now. What's his message to practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u101	These are really individual considerations that an employer makes in relation to an employee. You cannot enter into the assessment of an individual company that will stand at the end of a temporary contract for the question of whether it is going to hire Mr. X or Mrs. Y. Nor would it be appropriate for me to say now: if that is not the choice, then... We know that there are choices on the labour market. Companies have a responsibility to keep their business healthy and a responsibility as a good employer to deal neatly with their people. They have the rules of the game that are made in this house. We changed the rules of the game. We have put a different balance in that. If they make their own choices within these rules, it is not appropriate to add all kinds of other elements. It's possible. I merely told Mrs Voortman that it would not be wise to do so on 2 July. You have to see if the law is actually going to do what it's supposed to do. You have to look at whether you are simply going to work with the law after, as always, you have initially shown strategic behavior in some cases. An important reassurance is that dismissal applications are simply assessed in accordance with the applicable law and are therefore not the same as dismissal permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u102	I think it is too easy for the Minister to get rid of it. He himself has said at various times here in the Chamber but also in all the interviews he has given last week that he will intervene if the law does not do what he has to do. I asked him first if the picture is correct that there are some outliers in the number of dismissal applications. He doesn't know that. That seems to me to be quite useful information. Then I asked him what he's gonna do if it turns out he is. The answer to that is: yes, we should all look at that later. That is not an answer to all those people who are getting fired now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u103	Sorry, but I did respond to the figures on the number of discharge applications at the UWV. Indeed, you can see that there has been an increase in the last week. This increase does not justify the use of the word "dismissal wave." If you look at it at monthly or quarterly levels, you can't make it that big. Moreover, a dismissal application is not a dismissal permit. The second source we have is the messages from a number of canton judges. It may well be that canton judges are having extra pressure on the implementation of such a law. That doesn't mean we have to change the law. If this law fails to achieve its objectives, we will not abandon them, but will strengthen, improve and adapt the law. I did say that. I know we feel the same way about that. I do not think it would be wise to say on 2 July that we are going to amend the law in response to a peak in the dismissal applications at the UWV and a number of canton judges who are now busy. How to change the law, that's verse two. If, over time, we say that the law must be tightened, then you can go both ways. You can take Mr Mulder's side and Mr Ulenbelt's side. Let me put it this way. I think it would be unwise to make a choice now. I have my ideas on this too, but workers and employers say that a better balance has now been found than under the old law, and I want to respect that. This must now become apparent in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u104	The minister was there as the chickens to address ING and National-Netherlands, and DUO through the Minister of Education. I've named a whole series of companies. Why isn't the Minister going to address them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u105	I will not address all companies, but if an example comes along that is as obvious as ING, then I will not remain silent about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u106	So this is an invitation to the CNV and its hotline? Are they now being told "come to the Minister with your business, then he's going after it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u107	The CNV doesn't need an invitation from me. That is a very active association that is very enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u108	I suggest that you continue to answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u109	I come to Mr Mulder's question about the poster of the Association of Labour Law Lawyers Netherlands, the Vaan. That's the schedule she made. She put that on extremely large paper. It is a pity that Mr Mulder did not take it. I see someone in the back room holding it up now. This is the rolled-up version. You can almost hang the entire wall of the House of Representatives with it. Let me say this. I have a large number of labour lawyers in my family. I assure you that any law can be printed on such a poster. Leave that to lawyers, especially if it's their business model and they want to make their money by telling people: pooh, this is complicated; you need a very good, expensive lawyer for this. So I understand all that, but it's not the only thing we have to look at. We need to see if there's any clarity in the routes. Instead of being able to see what's cheapest, you go to the canton court and to the UVW in case of economic need. We need to look at the speed of procedures. The law stipulates that there are short procedures to assess a case. This is in the interests of the employer and the employee, because they soon know where they stand. Furthermore, there must be an end to the injustice that one gets nothing and the other a big bag of money. Whatever schedule you're making, there's no question about it. Mrs Schouten asked why I am interested in the case law. We know there's going to be case law. This is particularly important at the outset when a new law is introduced. You may find that creepy, but it also leads to legal form and more clarity about how the judge interprets the law. That's why I look forward to it. I've already promised to keep a close eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u110	How much time does the minister think he needs for the rest of the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u111	Not so much anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u112	Then I suggest we do the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u113	I had the feeling this block was finished. The question of what will happen to the right of dismissal after the adoption of the law has also been discussed in the legal process. It was interesting that the VAAN specifically said: beware now; this is going to bring us a lot of work and that is not the intention. So it's not like the FAN gave the signal there 'beware; this is going to take away our work'. The concern was that this would result in a build-up of procedures. By making this plea, she was actually a thief of her own wallet, wasn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u114	The latter is not the concern that has stayed with me most, but it is true. The VAAN commented on several points of the law. I have accepted some of her suggestions for improvements, but not all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u115	A very short, concrete question. A major review of the law will take place in three years' time. The Minister has already indicated in previous debates on this law that he will return to the functioning of the law in the autumn, at least for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs. My specific question, which was actually also raised in the discussion with Mrs Schouten, is the following. What can you qualify as a transitional problem, no matter how bad that is for the individual employee, and what could indicate that the law does not work quite as we intended it to? Can the Minister comment on this in the report he has already promised us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u116	I'll be sure to. That will be a qualitative explanation; I think everyone understands that. When I first made the commitment, I gave it to you. It's not a total registration, but I'm really going to do my best. It'll be coloured by the information I have or don't have to give in the budget a qualitative explanation of what I see. I will try, if possible, to distinguish between what you might qualify as a transitional problem or something that might be structurally applicable to the functioning of the law. Moreover, the major evaluation is after five years. After three years, we evaluate part of the law early. That's what people who know about law reviews say, very early. Look at the education. The transitional right ends on 1 July 2016. The law will only enter into force for two years if we start evaluating it. Probably won't be able to say everything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u117	I had some concern that I should read a certain part of an interview with the minister in one of the newspapers in such a way that the minister actually said: no matter what happens, those first three years I will not change the law. I understood him quite well today that if that is the reason why he does not want to anticipate that the law will be changed earlier, should we really run into bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u118	I think you should never say that the law will never be changed. Anyone who says that 70 years is the normal deadline for the right of dismissal is very optimistic about the sustainability of this law. I can see from Mr Van Weyenberg's face that he thinks this is a slightly too long-term answer. I consciously choose to counter all'super-fast-evaulators', people who already know what else to do before the law enters into force. I'm really pushing it back. But of course, it's not like you can't change the law. Nor is it the case that, if we agree, the Chamber and the Cabinet, which can be improved, are going to wait. Let us please maintain the quality of the legislative process by seriously evaluating if the law has been able to do its job. Of course, if improvements are possible, we won't avoid them, as I proved, a month and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u119	I didn't ask you to change the law today. I'm also curious how it works in practice. I am glad that the ban, which I thought I read in the interview, is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u120	You don't need a second term, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u121	This was such a long answer that I thought: let me try to sum it up briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u122	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u123	The Court rightly believes that the government should set a good example. I agree. In response to the motion of the Chamber, Mr Blok, on behalf of me and the rest of the cabinet, sent a letter at the end of May explaining how we, as the Empire, want to deal with the spirit of the WWS. The basic principle is to provide permanent posts as civil servants for structural work, not to help circumvent all kinds of provisions and to employ temporary workers only for short-term temporary work. Previously, it had been decided that payroll would be phased out at the Empire. The principle of continued phasing-out will be that payrollers who perform structural work will be employed by the Empire. For that reason, 30 out of 49 payrollers have been recruited to the Empire. We've been asked about the other 19 people. I cannot judge that now, which requires a specific assessment of those 19 cases. I assume for a moment that my colleague is faithfully carrying out that letter, which was also sent on her behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u124	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u125	I really want us to speed up this debate. You have already had two interruptions, Mr Van Weyenberg. You may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u126	It was all about DUO. The Minister quotes half of Minister Blok's letter. It says that it will apply as a line that people will be recruited for structural work for the Empire, after which there will be a crucial sentence: at least this applies to the payroll workers on an indefinite contract of employment. That is the sentence that causes me to experience tension between what is happening at DUO and what Minister Blok wrote to the Chamber on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u127	That was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u128	That I didn't quote part of the sentence, I didn't consciously. It's true that's what it says. How this is then implemented in practice, I cannot now judge on the basis of Mr Van Weyenberg's questions. He's absolutely right, that's what the letter says on behalf of the cabinet. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma also asked about the chain definition for civil servants. Why doesn't it apply? The modifications of the Wwz have been made to the Civil Code. This is not yet the case for civil servants, as we know. They still have the ARAR. Once the Law on Standardisation has been introduced, civil servants are covered by the BW for all those working in this country, including civil servants. The chain determination as it is is part of the existing ARAR. Changing that is not something you do through the Work and Security Act. This can be done, for example, by means of the new collective agreement which is being discussed and which I believe the Chamber discussed with Minister Blok yesterday. I would be happy if the new collective agreement also brought ARAR into line with the WW, as is the case with other workers; no misunderstanding about that. Mr Ulenbelt asked a question about more expensive flexible work. It's possible. In fact, it's already happening. In a number of sectors with relatively high seasonal WW intake, we have premium groups for the WW sector premium. In the agricultural sector, construction, catering, painting and cultural institutions, a higher sector premium is paid for short-term employment. Premium groups make contracts lasting less than a year more expensive than contracts lasting more than a year. In practice, the WW sector premium for short-term contracts is three to seven times higher than the sector premium for long-term contracts. In the agricultural sector, the sector premium in 2014 for long-term contracts was 1% and for short-term contracts was 7.6%. For the painting company, it is 3.6% versus 15.9%. Mrs Vermeij pointed out that the WW was also changing, but that this was underexposed. That's true. As of 1 July we have the revenue calculation in the WW. In the last two weeks, however, this has been less under-exposed by the debate on the extent of this change. Workers must give up their own income so that they can find a proper set-off, with the aim of keeping 30 cents of each euro earned. That can indeed be made more widely known. UWV provides information on this part of the law. On the site you can also find detailed information about the consequences of the changes to the WW. Also, the existing WW beneficiaries have been informed by letter that the law does not change anything for them. New WW beneficiaries are already explicitly warned about the changes in the WW. Since mid-June, UWV has been bringing the changes to the spotlight via radio commercials. New WW beneficiaries are not only informed by letter but also by app. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u129	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term. At least I assume that's what's needed. That's the case, I see. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u130	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas employers will be less likely to opt for flex contracts if flex workers are more expensive for them than permanent workers;]] [[Whereas the WW premium and redundancy compensation are means to increase the employer's burden on flex workers and to reduce for an indefinite period of time for workers on a contract of employment;]] [[noting that there are good substantive arguments for this, since the failure to grant redundancy compensation to employees on a temporary contract of less than 24 months creates inequality and an undesirable division with workers who have a longer contract and that the inflow risk in the WW for flex workers is four times higher than for employees on an indefinite contract of employment;]] [[calls on the Government to present proposals to the Chamber within six months to increase the employer's burden on flex workers and reduce for employees on an indefinite contract of employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u131	I have a déjà vu after the debates on the Security and Flex Act of 1996. Then it was also said: it's all gonna be okay. The fact that we now have this law is due, among other things, to the failure to listen properly at that time. So again, Minister, will you take the signals from staff bosses and unions seriously and then immediately, but also immediately, take measures to prevent that division?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks, there have been widespread media concerns from the Chamber but also from many employers and employees about this law, specifically about seasonal work. A solution didn't seem to be in sight. I am pleased that the Minister here states that employers and employees are saying that they want to come to a solution together, that he is also actively inviting them to visit him this summer and that the Chamber will receive a letter about this for the new political season. If the result is that they do not come out, there is no need to follow a short letter, because the problem is not gone. The Minister says it is too early to judge the chain system already. I would remind him that various groups have already...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u133	You will have to read out the motions, otherwise you will lose your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u134	I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reduction of the chain regime to two years will mean that many flex workers lose their jobs earlier;]] [[considers that it is not desirable to speed up the rotation of the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the chain regime for temporary contracts to the original three years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u135	Mr. Chairman. I do hope that the Minister will be able to give us good news during the summer, not only about seasonal work in agriculture and horticulture, but certainly also in the recreational sector, for example. I do expect a long letter when it appears that there are problems and the polder is not coming out. I think the Minister would be inclined to come up with proposals himself. I am glad that the Minister says: I do not rule out a change of law if there are problems; I hope that it is not necessary, but if so, I will act. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to those three versus six months in the chain clause. I'm filing the next motion on DUO. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on 29 May the Cabinet gave a written undertaking to the Chamber that payroll workers on an indefinite contract would be recruited by the Empire;]] [[noting that despite this commitment, the Education Executive Board intends not to employ 19 of the 49 payroll employees on an indefinite contract of employment;]] [[whereas the cabinet must not only act in accordance with the spirit of the social agreement, but must also keep its own promises;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the letter of 29 May, to effectively employ all payroll employees on an indefinite contract of employment;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u136	Promise makes you guilty. There may be reasons why this might be complicated, but the cabinet should not have promised it. I heard the minister right. He's hoping things are going well in practice. I am also prepared to hold the motion, but I would ask the Minister to inform the Chamber before the end of the recess as to whether the promise has been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u137	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many temporary workers lose their jobs because the possibility to work with a flexible contract is limited to a maximum of two years;]] [[Whereas, although a longer temporary contract does not provide the certainty of a fixed contract, it does provide greater freedom of choice and job security for flex workers and a bridge between permanent work and flex work;]] [[noting that multi-annual contracts are already possible, but only as a first contract;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the social partners, to make proposals for the possibility of multi-annual second contracts]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas public authorities co-finance many organisations, for example in the areas of care and well-being;]] [[Whereas this often involves short-term financing, which prevents these organisations from providing permanent contracts;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the social partners, to examine how, where possible, longer-term public funding can be achieved, so that organisations receiving public budget can more easily employ people and/or provide multi-annual contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Empire has set a good example and is rehiring cleaners;]] [[Whereas also provinces, municipalities and executives often outsource tasks such as cleaning, catering and security;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to encourage local authorities and government organisations to employ more people rather than outsource them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-75]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-76]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u138	Mr. Chairman. No motions from my hand and no questions at all. I just want to say that such a debate can also lead to a good solution. The consultations announced by the Minister and which we will be informed about in the summer have great support from my group. We see a major reform. After 70 years, the right of dismissal is reformed. After 20 years, major changes are taking place in terms of flexible work. After ten years the WW is redesigned. This requires a great deal, of workers and employers, and of the way in which we organized the consultations in this country. I welcome the commitment that we will be given a qualitative analysis before the Social Affairs budget is dealt with, in addition to an analysis of what are temporary problems and what may be structural effects of this law. How do we proceed? As a Chamber, we will pay close attention to this. That certainly applies to the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u139	Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear that in the agriculture and horticulture sector there is talk of finding a solution for seasonal workers. This is in the interests of entrepreneurs and workers in this sector. We understand that the Minister says: if there are problems with seasonal workers in a sector, then the sectors themselves are the first to move. We understand that. If the Minister says in advance "I have the solution," you run the risk of parties sitting on their hands, and that is not conducive to the solution. At the same time, we are counting on the employment minister to do so if the parties fail to reach a solution and do not assume their responsibilities, as he has shown in the so-called retroactive effect of the transition fee. He himself has formulated a solution for this. We remain curious about the so-called image, the state of play, with regard to seasonal workers promised before January, six months after the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u140	Mr. Chairman. Nor do I have any motions, because the Minister has now promised that he will enter into consultations to see what solutions can be found for seasonal workers. We thank him very much for that. We are very curious about the outcome of that. Having said that, I would like to point out that, as has just been mentioned in an interruption, this will not be the only moment. This will continue on some parts. Then I would like the Minister to keep an eye on developments in practice. We are indeed getting an overview of this. More than that, I want him to start thinking about what a means can be to show 'this is not in the spirit of the law', as he himself calls it. Just saying that it's not supposed to be, doesn't make much impression, unfortunately. Then the Minister must be able to deliver something. I would ask him to think about this in the autumn, together with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u141	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologize for not being able to attend the first term of office. I had to make the liberal sound about the commercial radio stations. I am satisfied with the answer given by the Prime Minister in the first term. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government's intention with the Work and Security Act is to give the employee greater job security and to combat unemployment;]] [[Whereas unemployment among 45+ still exceeds that of other age groups;]] [[Whereas it is important to make the position of the 45-pluser more attractive to the employer;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the social partners, to make 45-plussers not unnecessarily extra expensive by unnecessary and thus abolishing additional days off,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u142	I am always very critical of those kind of old age days, but how does Mr Klein expect the Minister to resolve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u143	By consulting the social partners, as indicated in the motion, in order to have proper consultation with them and to indicate that it is desirable to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u144	Mr. Chairman. I'm just passing the motions. In the motion in part No. 72 by Mr Ulenbelt and Mrs Voortman, the objective we are all pursuing will be fulfilled by means of concrete proposals. That's nice. However, I have already indicated in the debate that I think that 2 July is too early to implement this type of proposal. My request would be to hold the motion. If I can't do that, I'm gonna have to dissuade her now. In the motion in part No. 73 the government is invited to bring the chain determination back to the original three years. This motion I must advise against. I can see from Mr Heerma's face that he is disappointed, but not surprised. The motion in part No. 74 of Van Weyenberg is policy support. I don't have a problem with that. In the motion in part No. 75 the government is invited to make proposals in consultation with the social partners. I've already promised. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House's discretion. I hope that we will not be able to conduct this consultation in the long term. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mrs Voortman's 76. The various budgets could play a role in this if the Chamber felt this need. However, I must discourage this motion from my position. As regards the motion in part No. 77: This is what local authorities themselves are about. However, that does not mean that my colleague Minister Plasterk cannot and will not discuss this with them. I must advise against the motion, but I would like to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u145	I would just like to make a commitment to the motion in part No. Seventy-seven. The Minister states that the Minister of the Interior will consult the other authorities on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u146	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u147	Then I'll hold the motion in part no. 77 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u148	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (33818, No. 77). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u149	At the motion in part No. 76 indicated to the Minister that I should address this in the budgets to be distinguished. However, this seems to me to be a general point, which applies to all these budgets. It makes sense, then, for me to address the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He has a coordinating role in this, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u150	I really think that's going too far for this moment. I'll just have to dissuade the motion. The motion in part No. I should also advise against Mr Klein's 78. This is up to the collective agreement parties: they must be able to do their own work. As can be seen from the construction-cao, they also succeed. My involvement in this will not facilitate the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u151	I could not quite understand what the Minister said about the motion in part No. 75 colleagues Voortman, Heerma and Van Weyenberg. He has already promised that, he said, but did he deny the motion or did he say "judge Chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u152	I said "judge room." I have just indicated in the debate that I am prepared to hold this discussion and, if there is a need, to come up with proposals. I've done some expectation management, because I've done a round before. However, if Mrs Voortman is right and this is a major need, then I am prepared to do so. I am going to have that consultation first, but it also says 'in consultation' and not 'after consultation'. For that reason, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u153	It doesn't just say "in consultation." You go "in consultation" to achieve something. If the Minister does take over, I don't understand why he's not taking over my motion. If the Minister wishes to be consistent, he must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u154	I am always very pleased with Mr Ulenbelt's consistency opinions. What other motion by Mr Ulenbelt should I pre-advise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u155	The one in part No. 72. But I am concerned about the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman in part No. 75, of which the minister says "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u156	I have just indicated in the debate that I am prepared to resume this discussion. I am only prepared to make proposals to that effect if this consultation is successful. So I see this motion as a codification of that part of the debate we have had with each other. This is quite different from the one-sided intervention now in the consultation between employers and employees on contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u157	Speaking of consistency, in my motion, I point out that the Minister only needs to enter into consultation. He is right to say that this is a matter for the social partners, but that is why I also ask for consultation. That's what the motion does. That's consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u158	The difference is that the consultation that Mrs Voortman is talking about is a consultation with the social partners on something we are doing here. Mr Klein's motion looks at a consultation that is really up to the social partners themselves. That is why Mr Klein was just asked in the event of an interruption: how do you intend to achieve that? Once again, the social partners are closely following this debate. They're all breathless for television. They know that Mr Klein has this view. We do not add anything to that by adopting a motion which asks me to repeat that view to the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u159	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-11.u160	We are going to vote on the motions tabled this evening.
