ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u1	On the list of speakers are four speakers, with Mr Geurts of the CDA as the first speaker. Your speaking time is two minutes, including the tabling of your motions, if you have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. Praise and appreciation for the Secretary of State for having been on such short notice in Fryslân working visits in the area affected by the mouse disaster. The CDA also appreciates the longer term efforts made by the Secretary of State. As a CDA, we would like to stress that it is important that there should now be a concrete approach to the acute problems. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the mouse plague has become a mouse disaster affecting several provinces;]] [[Whereas the provision of credit to affected economic operators is an opportunity to make the cost of repairing damage bearable for entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the Government to make available an emergency facility through the Security Fund for the affected areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the mouse plague has become a mouse disaster affecting several provinces;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of possible forms of compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the European Commission and other public authorities on the possibilities of compensation and to ask them what they could contribute to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-823]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-32-824]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u3	Rounding up. Where the damage was some 25,000 hectares two weeks ago, it has now risen to more than 44,000 hectares. In conclusion, I have one more question. What possibility does the Secretary of State see of combating the mouse disaster through biological control? And if I may, Mr President, we received a petition this afternoon. The petition providers, the action group mouse damage, have also proposed a number of short-term solutions. I would like to hand that petition with content to the Secretary of State and ask her if she can give a response from the cabinet this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u4	Thank you. We'll direct him through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u5	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Regulation is to give form to inspections of animal transport operations;]] [[noting that several Member States have rightly argued for the presence of a veterinarian in inspections on animal transport and that this cannot be left to people without animal welfare and animal health expertise;]] [[calls on the Government to align itself with those Member States which advocate the presence of a veterinarian in animal transport in the further examination of the European Regulation on Official Controls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that animal welfare standards are lower outside the European Union than in the EU, as has recently been demonstrated in the production of horse meat in North and South America;]] [[Whereas the agreed free trade agreement between the European Commission and Canada (CETA) opens up the European market to products that do not meet European animal welfare standards, at the expense of animals and the level playing field for European entrepreneurs;]] [[declares that the Free Trade Agreement with Canada is undesirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-825]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-826]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u6	Then the Party for Animals heard a VVD MEP with a good idea. If that opportunity occurs, say once every ten years, don't let it go. So his idea is in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas animal welfare standards apply in the European Union to all economic operators;]] [[Whereas this level playing field should not be undermined by imports of products from outside the EU, to which these standards do not apply;]] [[points out that maintaining European animal welfare standards for all products from non-EU countries is a prerequisite for the conclusion of free trade agreements with third countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-827]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u7	Finally, a rappel. The Secretary of State had promised to come forward in good time with her appreciation of the new proposals for cloning and novel foods. The Chamber's been asking her for that since September. We understand that this discussion will continue in Europe in the short term, but we have not yet had the appreciation of the Secretary of State. I would therefore like to remind her of the commitment to inform the Chamber properly so that we do not go after the facts again, as in the case of the gene tech file.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u8	Mr. Chairman. We are very shocked by the speed with which the mouse plague in Friesland is increasing in size. It's about 40,000 acres by now. That's a hell of a lot. We are very sorry about the farmers and we are really concerned about the position of farmers in the affected areas with the Secretary of State and the other colleagues. We call on the Secretary of State to examine with the parties concerned whether a solution can be found. We can clearly see that the province is in the process, but we would very much like the Secretary of State to make a full effort to find a solution in this region together with the farmers, the LTO and the province. It would be very nice if we could be briefed on this. I do not think I need to include this in a motion and the Secretary of State shares my urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u9	Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that the Secretary of State himself has taken a short look at the mouse damage in Friesland. This is an urgent issue which requires urgent action. We would like the Secretary of State's undertaking to extend the emergency regime so that we can act more quickly in the future in the event of plagues and other calamities. We were somewhat less happy with the answer given by the Secretary of State to our written questions on the prohibition of tears. The Secretary of State will again sit in the chair of the entrepreneur. In the case of emergencies, give the entrepreneur tools to reduce the damage and weigh the economic interests of entrepreneurs more heavily, rather than looking mainly at the environmental aspects, that is our message. Today, the House of Representatives received a petition from the action group mouse damage. We ask the Secretary of State to respond in writing to the four concrete proposals put forward by the Action Group in that petition. In particular, the adaptation of the KringloopWijzer is topical. The VVD feels strong about this. I would urge the Secretary of State to respond in writing to these four points within a week, at least on the proposal to adapt the KringloopWijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u10	Mr. Chairman. I will answer questions that have been raised and, of course, I will also deal with the motions that have been tabled. I will first respond to the point of the mouse plague that Friesland and now the neighbouring province are plagued by at the moment. Indeed, I went to Friesland last week, very shortly after I spoke to the Chamber about this. I spoke to the farmers who were affected there. I can tell you this is a matter you're not gonna be in your cold clothes. For this reason, too, I have decided immediately, together with the province, the farmers involved, the LTO and the waterboard, to look at what we have to do on a number of points. That's also in the letter I sent to the Chamber. I've tried to raise real expectations. It's not possible for me to come there with a bag of money. That's how I put it there. It is not possible to compensate for all the damage that is currently being suffered. I found it very pleasant to note that the farmers understood that. At the same time, of course, they face a number of acute problems. Sometimes they're of a technical nature. How are we gonna fertilize now? What do we do with our cultivation plans? Sometimes the problems are of a financial nature. In this respect, I have made the suggestion of a joint insurance policy. I have also expressed the willingness, if necessary, to do a few things along the lines of the way in which we have organised broad weather insurance. Ten years ago, there was a similar type of plague in the same area. Then, by the way, the plague was smaller in size. Despite the fact that there has been such a scourge before, no control plan or management plan has yet been drawn up. It's necessary. That is why I have also promised to sit down with the various parties. In addition, I have recently appointed someone in my department to direct this. In this way things are really put into motion. In the debate with Mr Geurts, I had already promised him that I would look into the possibility of using the existing guarantee schemes, so as to prevent the acute risk of people going bankrupt. That commitment stands. However, that is a different matter from what has already been said that this will be available in any case. I will give my opinion on this when I discuss the motion that has been tabled. Mr Geurts also asked what opportunities I see for combating the plague, for example by biological means. I would very much like to look at this in the context of the plan of action to be drawn up. After all, the province, LTO, the waterboard and the undersigned have already agreed to draw up such a plan. Perhaps it would be a good thing for the House to know, for example, that the various parties will be consulted on this matter again next Friday. I will ensure that this issue is also addressed. I am also prepared to respond to the four points raised in the petition. I'll do that in a week, as the Chamber requests. It's probably gonna be early next week. This Friday's consultation is partly a technical consultation. If I respond at the beginning of next week, I can possibly include points from that consultation of my people and of those involved in the letter. To Mr De Liefde I say that the KringloopWijzer is of course not something of the government. That's a private instrument. By the way, LTO knows that. In fact, you should note that it starts with a private party discussion about what could or could not be an important step here. This too, however, will of course be included in the letter I have promised the Chamber. Mr. De Love also asked about the calamity settlement. I will talk to the committee in the very short term about the calamity settlement. It will indeed be my commitment to include plagues and other unforeseen circumstances in the calamities regime. I hope that I will also be able to show Mrs Dikkers that, for our part, we are really doing everything we can, and will use everything that is possible to contribute to the fight against the scourge. Moreover, we have always considered that we obviously have the entrepreneurial interest in this, but also the importance of ecology. I think Mr. De Love and I just don't entirely agree on that. By the way, these interests are very often parallel. If there is a great deal of leaching of certain substances in an area, it will of course, in the longer term, have disadvantages for the development area that entrepreneurs have in that area. So we also have a common interest in doing the right thing and showing flexibility if necessary. I come to the motions that have been tabled. In the motion in part No. 823 Mr Geurts said that an emergency facility should be made available through the Guarantee Fund. Again, I'll go in consultation to see if there are any options. In this motion, however, the outcome is already established, as it were. That's why I have to discourage the motion. But perhaps Mr Geurts would be so kind as to hold the motion pending the outcome of that consultation that we are taking for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u11	The question is whether Mr Geurts is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u12	I have another reaction, if that's all right with you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u13	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u14	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u15	Excuse me, I need to turn on your microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u16	Then you must leave the microphone on. Otherwise, it's gonna be a little difficult. I think the Secretary of State and I understand each other, but the rest of us don't. In farmers acute problems arise in the feed supply and so on. They can turn to a bank, but we all know that that is very difficult at the moment. That's why I'm asking for extra support on this route. The Secretary of State says she's still thinking about it. That is a free translation and summary of her words. When will the Secretary of State and her department be finished thinking and consulting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u17	It is not so much a matter of thinking but of assessing whether this can be done within the rules. So that goes a little further than just thinking. In the letter from the beginning of next week, it will not be ready. I dare say that to Mr Geurts. In view of what has been asked from various political groups, Mr Geurts would also like to say that from my position, of course, I am prepared to say to the banks: let us look together at how we can prevent companies from going into very serious financial problems unnecessarily. But again, we are now seeing in the same region that dairy farmers are also facing financial problems for a very different reason. We must be careful here to suggest that we have an easy solution in The Hague, when that is not actually the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u18	I don't expect an easy solution at all. That would have happened a long time ago. That's how I know the Secretary of State. However, I would like to point out to her that a number of farmers are in the Deutsche Bank. I can already tell you what the Deutsche Bank is going to say: these farmers are not getting any extra credit. We also had the discussion about Deutsche Bank and everything that happens with it with her colleague from Finance. There's an acute problem that needs to be looked at. And so it's about the mice; we're not talking about the milk price.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u19	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u20	Is the Secretary of State aware of the problem that the farmers sitting at the Deutsche Bank have no other way of solving their financial problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u21	Again, I am not saying here that the route through the banks offers immediate relief for any situation. For this reason, I have already taken up the suggestion to look at these guarantee schemes and see if they can be involved. So that's what we're looking at. However, I cannot now commit to an outcome. In addition, the province itself, Mr Geurts, can also, I believe, exert some influence there. It could have potential to do something, for example once via the Fauna Fund. The county doesn't choose that. I also understand why this is not done. However, if there is financial damage in this situation, we cannot only find a solution in The Hague. For example, we have indeed decentralised the Fauna Fund. I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u22	I should like to know from Mr Geurts whether he is holding his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u23	I'm a guy who usually spends the night thinking about it. That's what I'm gonna do here. So I'm not holding the motion at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u24	You're not gonna hold her. Then we conclude she's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u25	So I must discourage her, with everything I want to do in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u26	Mrs. Dikkers, you are not a petitioner. If you have a short question, you may ask it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u27	I have a very short question. I just want to know whether the Fauna Fund can play a role and whether the Secretary of State can then urge the Province to do so. We are not entirely clear whether this role is there and, if so, what role it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u28	That's what I wrote in my letter. That Fauna Fund is decentralised. It is not obvious that damage will be compensated from this fund, because this scourge can be combated. Nevertheless, ten years ago, in the event of a disaster of smaller magnitude, a gesture was made. That was then done on condition that a management plan was put in place. The farmers promised this. I have to say that that plan is not there. There's no point in pointing out whose fault that is. My first conclusion in the conversation was to at least make sure that that plan comes through. I would also like to take the lead in this. In addition, it is not up to me, but to the Deputy and Deputy States to make a different choice, should they so wish. But that debate must, of course, take place in the Deputy States and not here. I don't want to interfere with that. I asked and found that the deputy had a pretty clear line in that. I will continue with the Geurts motion in part No. 824. It calls not only for an inventory of possible forms of compensation, but also for consultation with the European Commission and other public authorities. I also advise against this motion. Of course, I would like to consult with various organisations, including the European Commission. However, there are no provisions in European legislation. If there were emergencies in other Member States, the Commission has always reacted against them. Again, we have just established that the broad Fauna Fund could be the basis. That is up to the provinces, and the MPs know how to like it. I come to the Old-Hand motion in part No. 825. I'd advise against it. Many controls involve NVWA veterinarians, but this is not always necessary. I think what Mrs Ouwehand is asking me to do here is too much. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The motion-Ouwehand in part No. 826 I'm afraid I don't recommend it. Apart from the fact that this is the competence of my colleague Ploumen, I do not like to say that the free trade agreement with Canada is undesirable. I believe that this can bring benefits for our business. We have had a very strong debate about our commitment. I shall come back to that at Mrs Ouwehand's last motion. But I would advise against making this statement without a major debate, apart from the content, in a Commission which I do not think is suitable, if only because Mrs Ouwehand has to have this debate with my colleague Ploumen. In the motion-Ouwehand in part No. 827, which deals with free trade agreements, states that European animal welfare standards must be a condition. That is, of course, my commitment, but that is not an obligation to achieve results in advance. I have also heard the VVD MEP, whom I am very fond of. That should be the commitment of the Dutch Government, and it is. Although we are going for it, it is not always possible to guarantee that it is the outcome in all cases. For that reason, I really must discourage this motion. Mrs Ouwehand knows that, in the meantime, we are working hard on this dossier and that we are being heard from within Europe, but certainly beyond it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u29	Now the monkey comes out of the sleeve. We have some ambitions for animal welfare, but it will never be important enough to add any consequence to it, nor to protect our own entrepreneurs from imports of products that do not meet European standards. It scares me. I have another question on my motion on the present treaty with Canada. When will the cabinet react to the consequences of that treaty? I am talking about imports of products that do not meet our animal welfare standards. That's what a letter was supposed to be about. I am prepared to hold my motion until then, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if she has any idea when that letter will come. She is right to say that Minister Ploumen has the lead in this, so I can imagine that there is a need for coordination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u30	That's why I can't give you a date. I'm not in charge of this. I can't decide when another department will be ready to send that letter to the Chamber. So I'm afraid to say that. Mrs Ouwehand also said: it can never be important enough to... Then she suggested that we do not consider the interests of our entrepreneurs high. That would scare me, too, but it's not. Mrs Ouwehand suggests a kind of summary of the cabinet's commitment. Only, the problem is that this summary isn't right. Our stakes are strong. There's no misunderstanding about that either. But that's something other than that in advance is always the outcome. The Netherlands, for example, has previously voted against imports of Ukrainian eggs as the only European Member State. This indicates that we are willing to make it loud and clear where we stand, sometimes literally against the current.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u31	The Secretary of State just said, for the first time in my opinion on behalf of the cabinet, that that treaty with Canada is indeed very desirable, whereas it literally states that import restrictions are out of the question. This means that you cannot protect your own entrepreneurs, let alone animal welfare. I'm going to ask Minister Ploumen when that reaction will come. I had hoped this Secretary of State would have some insight into that, because it affects her own ambitions. Then I will let you know, Mr President, whether I can hold the motion, because we need to be informed about progress and whether or not that treaty is being ratified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u32	Mrs Ouwehand asked if I would, at some point, come forward with an appreciation of the proposal on cloning, at least before it is necessary to discuss it. I will do so in one of the next reports of the Agriculture Council, at least in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u33	Thank you for that commitment. I particularly like that "on time." Can the Secretary of State also undertake that she will then respond to the motion that has been passed in which I give a number of bets to the government on cloning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u34	Yes, that seems logical to me, because if we reflect our commitment and the Chamber has views on it, then we must, of course, state how we are looking at that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u35	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-24.u36	The votes on the motions tabled will be taken next Tuesday.
