ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	Madam President. This morning, the editor-in-chief of BNR Newsradio announced on his own channel that BNR is considering taking legal action against the Star, who is responsible for advertising the Dutch public service broadcaster. BNR does so because BNR advertisements are categorically refused on all radio and TV channels of public service broadcasting. As a result, the news channel can only use a limited public campaign. The Star offers other media, such as FOX, to give just one example, and Netflix does offer the opportunity to advertise. This seems contradictory and restricts a commercial company in its operations. That is why I would like to ask the following questions. What does the Secretary of State think of this policy of the Star? Is this even allowed? Isn't a possible advantage of competition far too light an argument for completely refusing BNR advertising on all public service broadcasting platforms? Are only BNR advertising refused, or is this also found in other media? Why are competitors such as FOX and Netflix given room? How much money does the Star lose every year by refusing commercials? In other words, how much money should the taxpayer have to match each year as a result of this policy? In June 2012, Minister Van Bijsterveldt replied to questions from Mrs Van Miltenburg of the VVD Group: "This is indeed a custom, but I must also say that I am raising my eyebrows and I will check this out." Then what happened to this? I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. Is it true that public service broadcasting itself advertises on BNR? Isn't that a serious hypocrite now that BNR doesn't have this possibility the other way around? Finally, is the Secretary of State prepared to have the Media Commissioner investigate the legal basis for such a general ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Elias asks if this is allowed. The Star is a media institution established by law. The Star itself has the responsibility to determine the form and content of the broadcasts. Under the Media Act, the Star also has a programmatic autonomy in this area. In other words, it itself makes the assessment of selling as much advertising time as possible and not losing viewers and listeners to competitors. Will only BNR's advertising be refused? In my opinion, this Chamber has been asked questions about commercials of 538 before. Then I come to the question of why advertisements from FOX and Netflix are being broadcast. Those are payment services, so I can imagine the Star making a different assessment. How much money is being missed and what does the taxpayer notice? I don't think the taxpayer will notice any of that immediately. After all, the Star itself will consider what it will yield to broadcast certain advertisements and commercials and what it will cost if the viewer possibly goes over to the competitor. Mr Elias also asked about previous comments made by my predecessor on this subject and when we came back to those comments. In the 2013 media letter, we gave substance to that commitment and replied roughly in line with what I have just followed. Isn't it hypocritical of public service broadcasting? Isn't it true that public service broadcasting also advertises to BNR? I have not been able to figure that out in the short term, but if Mr Elias or BNR says that he is, I believe that immediately. However, BNR can also choose which ads it places and which ones it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. Oh, no, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	The question of whether I would like to give an order to the Media Commissioner was indeed left. I can't, because the Media Commissioner is an independent supervisor. If BNR were to submit an enforcement request to the Media Commissioner, it would do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	To be honest, I find these answers to be moderately satisfactory. We want a level playing field everywhere. Then why wouldn't we want that here? The Secretary of State says it's in the law. Then perhaps we should seriously consider amending the law on this point. Can the Secretary of State answer that? Because it's not a level playing field. Furthermore, the Secretary of State has not had time to examine the other way around so quickly. However, my information is that there have been spots for the VARA Guide and the TV series The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The other way around, that's what happens. Let me put it this way: I ask the Secretary of State to consider the extent to which this is a level playing field and whether we should seriously consider amending the law. That story about the payment services is a little weak after all. If it's behind the decoder, they can advertise with the Star, but if it's a real competitor, no. We have competition in this country, don't we? Isn't that true for public service broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	These are considerations that the Star itself must make. I think there is a level playing field. The Star has a certain degree of autonomy and freedom to make these considerations itself and BNR ditto. If you have that freedom, you are not obliged in the Netherlands to broadcast everything you are offered. BNR is also not obliged to broadcast all the commercials he is offered. BNR may as well refuse public service commercials as the Star does to BNR.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	And what is your answer to the question of possible further legislative measures or changes to the relevant law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	That's not in the planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	Isn't that part of the plan? Well, let's put that on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	This is a bit in line with the discussion we had before with a member of the cabinet. He had a formal answer and here comes a formal reply from the Secretary of State. But what does the Secretary of State think morally of the fact that public service broadcasting and the public service broadcasting organisation, the Star, make such a choice? In this way we are going to limit the pluralism of our media landscape, because we are not allowed to listen to BNR through advertising on the Star.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	Just as broadcasters have a certain freedom and autonomy to consider independently what programs they show with which coloring et cetera, the Star has also, as the legislator has determined. I can very well imagine that the Star is weighing down: what good will it do us and what will it do if you broadcast these commercials? The Star can also simply assume that if he advertises his competitors, some of his viewers and listeners might run away and lose income. I can't make that trade-off from behind the speaker's seat. There are people in the Star who have to do that. I don't see why we should cut them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	Then may I ask the Secretary of State to sit down with the Star very freely to discuss with the Star Board the feelings that live here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	I don't think that's necessary. We are having this debate for the umpteenth time. It is not the first time this theme has come back. The Star also looks at this kind of Question Time. He sees there's a debate. And I wouldn't know what to discuss with him and what the message should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
