ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me thank the Secretary of State for the detailed and detailed answers to the questions we had. Let me add something immediately: I am experiencing some hesitation in myself and in my group on this issue. After all, we do not want to sit in the chair of management. When parliaments do that, the end of the day is usually just losers. That said, this is a tax charge, a central function of the state. According to some scholars, it is even the hallmark of a functioning state. That justifies care and caution, and that actually opposes experiments. Our group warmly welcomes the direction the Secretary of State intends to take with this bill. If things go well, the ability to act and flexibility in the movement between citizens and the tax authorities will become more important. That's what we'd all like to see. However, the precarious is in the transition from one to the other. We all know how much the Tax Administration has been pushed towards shipwreck by all kinds of improper side-effects. That is why we pay extra attention to friction risks in transition periods. Our group had asked whether the Secretary of State could not have a somewhat longer period of implementation than one year in which to communicate both on paper and digitally. He replied: it is impossible for the Tax Administration to have two processes run side by side for years. I understand, and that's why we didn't ask. There is a difference between what we had asked for, namely a little longer, and what the Secretary of State answers, namely for years. I'd like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, the HUBA, the help with the declaration. I would never use such abbreviations myself, because official abbreviations are always the beginning of alienation between government and citizens, but that aside. We are talking just about 120.917 people aged 71 and over who made a paper declaration in the 2013 academic year. They all have to go to desks at tax offices, or get help from senior citizens' unions or, if they're lucky, from their children. Of course, the Secretary of State is right when he writes that this group is decreasing annually. This is an excellent feature of this age group. Yet, we are talking about people of flesh and blood, about taxpayers. Is a somewhat longer transitional period technically impossible for such a group? Is it expensive, maybe too expensive? And if so, what is the cost of such a thing? That is why I call once again for caution. What is perhaps a small thing for you and for me can be a horde for many honourable citizens, which is felt not as a horde but as a deep injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Meeting tax obligations is more than just a financial transaction between citizen and government. There's a bigger story to it. It also has to do with civic spirit, community duty and contributing to the financial strength of a society. On the basis of politically agreed standards, the government determines which part of the citizen's income or assets will end up in the community mockery. Public goods are financed from this collective provision. These shared standards have been established in the political arena on the basis of values around dividing justice. State taxation binds citizens to society and society. Citizen and government meet directly in the fiscal domain. These are important matters for both parties. Both private and collective interests are at stake. Good communication is essential. The fact that citizens and governments meet so directly in the fiscal domain, at the intersection of personal and common values, leads to the argument that there should be no barriers to communication between citizens and government that make access to this domain more difficult. That is precisely where we are at the heart of our great concern about this bill, namely that it only wants the communication between the tax administration and the taxpayer to be carried out electronically. For some groups of taxpayers this is a bridge too far. Here, the basic sociological observation is that digital skills are unevenly distributed in society. Some observers even speak of a digital divide. Many have embraced the digital revolution, but others can hardly come along. Despite our high level of prosperity and education, our country has a large group of about 1.5 million low-skilled people. People with limited intellectual abilities, some groups of elderly people, as well as people without computers, can struggle through the digital revolution. They cannot meet the digital skills that electronic tax traffic requires. They will therefore also have to rely on care services that are already overloaded or on commercial tax service providers. It is these groups of Dutch people that the Christian Union Group is very concerned about. These groups, despite the support provided by the Tax Administration, will literally miss the connection. They experience the access to the tax domain as a blockade and as an exclusion by digitisation. My group notes little passion and compassion with the cabinet in the explanatory statement and the response for the limited digital skills of these groups of taxpayers. There are many words devoted to supporting these groups, but my group does not believe that the actions envisaged are convincing. Let me be clear. The Christian Union also sees that the route to digitization of the tax return is irreversible. The system offers efficiency benefits and leads to cost savings; little doubt about that. The majority of taxpayers will be happy to join. But that is not what our concern is for. My group calls primarily for attention to be paid to vulnerable groups of taxpayers who, for a variety of reasons, take a rear-guard position in the digital rat race. For them, terms such as "DigiD," "DigiD Powerful Message Box" or "Notification Function" are part of a wondrous world that is not theirs. They don't have an address either. It is our conviction that we need to take much more time to guide and support these vulnerable groups. The planned starting date for the next fiscal year is simply too early. The speed with which the Secretary of State wants to introduce the bill is very closely linked to our analysis of vulnerable groups of digital behind. Why aren't we taking a little more time? What really goes wrong when these groups are awarded to meet their tax returns and their communication with the government in the old, paper way? Is there not much more balance in the rhyme of private and collective interests? What's the rush? Why so little sense for weaker groups of taxpayers who are at risk of falling off the digital boat? We would like the Secretary of State to be somewhat technocratic in his attitude, a little more bound up with compassion for taxpayers who do not lack tax bourgeoisness but digital competences. We ask the Secretary of State to continue the two-track policy of electronic and non-electronic tax returns and the communication between citizens and the government associated with them. Can the Secretary of State take stock of this? We must close the gap in public communication with the citizen and not widen it. Digital self-reliance is far from a reality. Moreover, CBS figures show that around 40% of Dutch people between the ages of 65 and 75 do not have internet access. How does the Secretary of State intend to impose electronic reporting obligations on them and to communicate with them via digital means at all? We simply need to continue to offer this group the alternative of paper communication. I agree with the statement of CDA spokesperson Ommzigt across the street. He argued that his group sees the bill as a "pink cloud effect," a law that is "full of unrealistic wishful thinking." The State Secretary's own investigation shows that one in six citizens does not consider themselves capable of contacting the Tax Administration and does not know how to find assistance in completing the declaration. Well, that's a lot to think about, isn't it? Conversely, research shows that the government is failing to reach older people and the low-skilled through electronic communications. For example, our National Ombudsman concludes that personal contact with the government is necessary to support these groups. Citizens, according to the Ombudsman, want to have a choice between paper and digital communications. And Minister Plasterk rightly writes in his Vision Letter digital government 2017: "There will always have to be alternatives for citizens who lack the opportunities or skills to arrange their contacts with the government via the digital way. Personal contact with the government should remain possible for these citizens." Clear conclusions, I think. Despite our questions about this, the Christian Union Group remains in the dark when exactly the flow of messages must take place entirely electronically. What is the exact timeline and what order does it take? Can the Secretary of State make this clear again? We understand that as early as 2017 the income tax return can only be made electronically and that the provisional and final attacks will only be sent electronically. This is a very short timetable. Does the Secretary of State really think that he will get the digital competences of vulnerable groups in the intervening year in order? Does he think the digital divide will be closed? When exactly is the end of the start-up period foreseen? I'd like some clarity on this point. The Secretary of State uses many phrases in the underlying documents on how he will support taxpayers in this mandatory electronic messaging. Much of this support, as my group has said, is a policy of standing. What new forms of support does the Tax Administration which is part of this new phase in the communication between government and citizens? Is there more budget for that and if so, how much? Will personal services be intensified through personal contact? What kind of service is being used for the weak groups I mentioned? Are we taking their needs seriously? The reference to the HUBA system is somewhat painful in this respect. We are talking about a computer service at the Tax Office desk. I'm closing up. The ChristianUnion Group sees the benefits of digitisation of the tax return. But it is mainly benefits for the Tax Administration itself and for taxpayers who are digitally skilled. Vulnerable taxpayers are difficult to cope with at this time of far-reaching digitisation. They experience blockades in their access to government. My group is in favour of taking more time to introduce electronic reporting and to devote much more time to getting the tax support structure in place for these groups. It will be clear that my group is having difficulty with this bill. We await the answers of the Secretary of State to our questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. The members of the D66 Group thank the Secretary of State for his answers to our written questions on this bill, which aims at a "simpler, more unambiguous and informal contact between taxpayers and the Tax Administration." I'm going back in time. Six months ago, DUO, the Education Department, apologized to 10,000 MBO students. I quote from the Volkskrant of 17 March 2015: "At the end of February, thousands of MBO students were surprised by a court order. (...) They hadn't paid their tuition fees. (...) The amount was therefore increased by €300. (...) The bailiff came out of nowhere for us, says the father of one of the students. His son was one of 140,000 students who received the post of DUO only digitally. Every time there is a new message about, for example, tuition or a late payment in the personal DUO portal, the students are emailed about it. Those were neutral e-mails in which it was only said that a new message was ready, says the spokesman of DUO. This weekend the ten thousand students received a letter stating that they do not have to pay the €300 in extra costs. DUO should not have assumed that the messages are read in the DUO portal, the implementing authority itself notes. 'The e-mails we sent were apparently not a trigger to log in. We should have communicated more strongly," admits the spokesperson. 'And because it's such a large group, we've decided that the extra costs will be borne by us'. The end of the digital song was that DUO received tuition fees less quickly, lost 1 million euros in recovery costs, and in a bad magazine came students and their parents. The draft law before us differs in a number of respects from the DUO approach. First of all, DUO was concerned only with students who had indicated in advance that they only wanted to receive the messages electronically. Taxpayers, if this Chamber approves this bill, have no choice: they must. Secondly, according to this bill, taxpayers do not receive, as the students do, by default, a warning in their e-mail that a message is ready for them. They can get a warning though, it's called in the proposal, but only if they ask for it. Whoever shuts up doesn't get anything. That is the standard, and we know that 80% of people are affected by it. Furthermore, taxpayers are on average a lot older than students, and I can assume that on average less digitized and skilled. If students are already having trouble with this system, how about the average taxpayer and the elderly? Will the problems that arise when we approve this bill not be greater, indeed much greater, than those of the students? My group realizes that this bill was already being worked on before the Duo digital drama became known. But shouldn't we learn a lesson from that while we still can? Of the students concerned, more than 7% received a bailiff on the sidewalk. If that percentage is the same for taxpayers, it would be 700,000 people. DUO lost 1 million to 10,000 students. Then it would cost the Tax Administration 70 million more than the savings of 60 million per year that the Secretary of State expects to achieve with the transition to the new system. If the Tax Administration does not make this gesture, it will charge the taxpayers with these costs. That is only the direct damage, because tax morals are influenced by the way people feel treated. Small, subtle changes can have a major impact on compliance. For example, by placing the signature at the beginning of the declaration form, the upper signs shall lead to more than half of the percentage of people "sjoaming" with the declaration. Research by the Tax Administration itself shows that taxpayers react almost twice as quickly as their blue envelope has a personalised message. Has the Secretary of State taken this into account when estimating savings for the Tax Administration? In the written round, I asked the Secretary of State if the Tax Administration, like DUO, will also send letters of formal notice digitally. The Secretary of State replies that this is not yet known and will also be determined by experience, but that this will be the case at some point. Does this mean that the Tax Administration does not yet know how it will send letters of formal notice next year? Or that letters of formal notice will be sent on paper next year? We also ask the Secretary of State whether the amount of 60 million he expects to save is based on letters of formal notice or letters of formal notice via the proposed digital channel and whether he expects more reminders to be sent next year. In his reply to a question from my group, the Secretary of State states that the degree of ease in fulfilling an obligation increases the willingness to comply with it, that the Tax Administration is strongly committed to this and that this bill creates the preconditions for that. My group is concerned that this bill makes taxpayers more difficult than easier. The bill may seem to be merely a transition from paper to electronic messaging, but it is not. It would be such a transition if citizens received the tax authority's mail as an attachment in their own e-mail. In principle, the D66 Group would be in favour of this if it were sufficiently safe - especially if the taxpayer could contact the Tax Administration by pressing the answer button. However, the bill wants citizens to create a digibox and check it periodically to see if there is a tax administration post in it. In short, the bill wants two changes: from paper to electronic......................................................................................................................................................................................................... The latter is asking for trouble. As if citizens would no longer receive their blue envelope in their own mailbox, but in an external mailbox, where they should actively go when they do not know when mail will arrive, but that this is not more than a few times a year. If the Secretary of State suggested this for the paper mail, wouldn't the Chamber say he's gone mad? We are also talking about taxing. This is already perceived by the citizen as something that is not pleasant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u5	In support of the bill, the government indicates that 95% of the tax returns are digital. In the debate in the Lower House, the State Secretary mentioned that 90% of the 65-plussers and 86% of the 71-plussers report digitally and that we should not link it to age. But that's sending. My group has difficulty in receiving, namely forcing the taxpayer to receive messages digitally in an external mailbox, i.e. not its own. By the way, that possibility is already there. The Tax Administration has called on people to activate their account on mijnoverheid.nl. I have asked the Secretary of State how many taxpayers have already done this, which turns out to be less than 20%. The Secretary of State promises a campaign. Earlier he said in the House of Representatives: if 30% of taxpayers haven't even activated their mailbox, that's a good thing. At the moment, that percentage is more than twice as high, 80. Doesn't that say enough? According to the explanatory memorandum, sending and receiving messages on paper is more important than sending or receiving the same messages by electronic means. The D66 Group asked the Secretary of State for an explanation of this. He admits in his reply that "logging in will indeed take more time than walking to the mailbox and removing the mail." He explains that the lesser work is in cleaning up and archiving. However, my group's main concern is that the taxpayer does not even know when to log in. It's not automatic like opening your own mail, paper or digital. We ask the Secretary of State for the possibility of the subsequent transmission of messages via the taxpayer's own mailbox and to allow people who do not want to continue to receive paper mail. The latter would help people who, for any reason, for example age, are not able to handle the Internet properly or who do not want or remember another code. We can imagine that this is not safe, but DigiD is also waterproof. We've known that since the Bulgarian scam. At the present level, it is a very easy tool to manipulate. It is not for nothing that many European tax administrations use a different system, similar to what our banks do. A look at the neighbors should be able to provide a lot of valuable information. I understand that the Secretary of State is keen to save on the cost of implementation, but in this case this could mean: before you start. Does the Secretary of State see an opportunity to enable a parallel system with paper receipt of tax post or to carry out an execution test and to introduce the new system only if it has proved successful? I'm rounding up. My group has difficulty with this bill, not because we object to the transition from paper to digital communication for those who can handle it, but because of the fact that recipients do not receive their mail on their own bus and do not know whether anything has arrived on their external bus. We also have difficulty with the digidwang imposed on citizens. Finally, we are not convinced now that this will achieve the expected savings and maintain compliance. The Secretary of State wants to save the IRS. We welcome that, but haste is rarely good. It is the task of this Chamber to assess the enforceability and feasibility of proposed legislation, in this case also in the interest of the Tax Administration. I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u6	I'm going to press the bell, because now comes Mr Van de Ven's maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u7	Madam President. The maiden speech of a new member of the First Chamber is a nice use of this high house. Today, I am officially introduced to the multiform political community that is now forming this Chamber. As a Liberal and a member of the Liberal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to take this opportunity to make myself accessible. I look forward with interest and confidence to fruitful cooperation with all groups and with the government in the interests of society as a whole. This 56th working day I would like to use to thank the Registrar and all members of his staff for the exemplary reception and guidance from my installation on 9 June. The multitude of impressions over the last 56 days makes me want to praise the involvement of official support. Thank you for your commitment. I would ask the Registrar to convey my gratitude to his staff. The Electronic Message Traffic Act Tax Administration is under discussion. The VVD Group supports the logical step of introducing the EBB Act into the chain of advanced information technology. My group is therefore in favour of this proposal. However, the VVD Group has some questions regarding the application and operation of the EBB Act for the income tax return for individuals as of 2016. Before moving on to the legislative proposal, I would like to start by briefly informing Members about what motivates me as a liberal and a VVD member in my Chamber work. Part of my first performance in this house is that you will explain the background of the new Member at the end. I must suspect that you will inform this Chamber of my choice in 1973 to assess the Netherlands against the background of taxation. Over the last 42 years, I have had an insight into the taxation that I would like to give an example of. The employee who earns twice a modal, €70,000, and has a rental house of €900 per month, after payment of payroll tax and rent, will have about €32,000 left. Reduced for holiday money means less than €2,500 per month. But in spending, the tax festival begins: turnover taxes, excise duties, health contributions, environmental taxes, vehicle taxes, provincial increases, taxes on local authorities, insurance taxes and so on, and so on. The government has only increased the tax burden since the 1970s. The average citizen now has hardly any financial space after taxes to replace a broken washing machine. But a politician can't increase citizens' happiness with a new washing machine. I believe from my liberal anchors that the current tax pressure has cut citizens' independence. The deep financial and economic crisis from 2008 has made it clear that citizens must have a financial buffer for emergencies. Clearly, I welcome the government's investment of 5 billion in the citizens' wallet. The tax wedge between gross and net income should also be reduced in order to create employment. The effective tax burden leaves little room for further burden increase. I hope for a further reduction in the tax burden from my point of view that an independent citizen is also empowered to build up power and to decide on certain spending. So my commitment to this high house is the citizen's wallet. Taxation is based on principles. These principles are, in particular, the principle of capacity, the principle of privileged acquisition and the principle of profit. These principles are hardly respected. Now the principle of "grabbing what you can get" applies. New burdens under new legislation will no longer be assessed against tax principles. No new tax principle has been devised in the last 60 years. On the occasion of my maiden speech, I advocate a new tax principle: the capital building principle. As I have said, I believe that every citizen has the right to build and retain a freely expendable wealth from his income as an asset for thirst, i.e. income, taxes, expenditure and also capital building. That capital must be there for unexpected expenditure and for financially difficult times. With the financial and economic crises, we realise that fellow citizens can get into problems beyond their debt, for which, unfortunately, they have no financial buffer. I would now like to move on to ask a number of questions on behalf of the VVD Group in the Tax Administration Act. My group assesses the EBB Act against the background of the Generic Digital Infrastructure for the Netherlands in the run-up to the digital government Act in 2017. Digitisation of our society is inevitable and it is good that the government is working on it. The Tax Administration plays a leading role. This bill deserves a compliment. My group reads in the response of 18 September that the private individual will be obliged to submit his income tax return digitally from the tax year 2016. So in three months' time the era of the digitally compulsory income tax return will start. It is to be expected that in 2017 individuals will submit their pre-filled declaration note 2016 massively with a push of a button. I ask the State Secretary to confirm that the private individual must submit his income tax return by electronic means as of the reporting year 2016. Is it his expectation that individuals will almost without exception benefit from the pre-filled income tax return? The pre-filled income tax return for individuals has taken a high flight. However, it is the impression of the members of the VVD Group that the pre-filled declaration needs to be further improved. As an example of data available to the Tax Administration on 1 March but not yet included in the income tax return note for the previous year, dividends and related dividend tax apply in case of a profit distribution to a director-large shareholder. Another example concerns municipal fees. Those data are available before 1 March, but not pre-filled. Also, the inclusion in the pre-filled declaration note of the donation to a public utility institution, an ANBI, is not yet regulated. These are some examples, but there are others. Members of my group have the following questions about the quality of the pre-filled income tax return for individuals. Can the Secretary of State undertake that the pre-filled income tax return 2016 will be perfected for the private sector in the coming year, now that the private sector will have to make a mandatory digital declaration from March 2017 onwards? The VVD Group asks the State Secretary to provide the pre-filled income tax return 2016 with a list of income items that have not yet been incorporated into that bill by the Tax Administration. That list shall then be used to draw the taxpayer's attention to his income items which are outside the public domain of pre-filling. A further question of a different nature is how the Secretary of State can ensure that the taxable citizen, the private individual, with the push of a button, submit his mandatory electronic declaration correctly and in full. Will it not be too easy for the private individual to press the declaration button in the, possibly incorrect, assumption that his pre-filled income tax return is complete and correct? Will the Secretary of State undertake that by the autumn of 2017, when the 2018 Tax Plan is discussed, information is organised and available to private individuals at the Ministry of Finance on the income tax declaration campaign 2016 so that it can be assessed to what extent the pre-filled declaration note does not give rise to a tax leak? Will he also build up information by that date which provides insight into the enforcement of the recovery of the tax due by the private person? I thank the Secretary of State for his answers to the questions of the VVD Group. I'll come to a conclusion. Ceterum censeo institutional peculii exstruendi adhibendum esse. That is pot Latin and it means: and, by the way, I believe that the capital building principle should apply. Thank you for your attention. Dixi.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Van de Ven. I'm glad you added the translation just now. Yes, it was pot Latin, but it was fascinating. Congratulations on your maiden speech. On June 9th of this year, you were sworn in as a member of this house. You are a member of the Committees on Finance, European Affairs, Kingdom Relations and Social Affairs and Employment. The subject of taxation that we are discussing today is an area where you feel at home, and that is what we have heard. You graduated from tax law in Leiden and in 1979 you started your first job as a tax inspector. Since 1980 you have spent five years in the Ministry dealing with the taxation of foreign diplomats and the staff of international organizations in the Netherlands. Then you switched to what was then called Moret Ernst & Young, and now Ernst & Young or EY, where you eventually became a partner. Four years ago, you made a radical change and became an independent tax advisor. You also decided to broaden your legal horizon and return to the college benches. Not at your alma mater, but at the Open University in Heerlen. There you followed the subjects of procedural law, formal criminal law and substantive criminal law. When I see it that way, it's about achieving the civilian effect. I think I got that right, because then you can do tax lawyers. You've been politically active at the VVD for over 25 years. The vast majority of them were alternate members and chairman of the VVD Committee on Taxation. You have also worked for the party as a member of the party council, as a national treasurer and as secretary and chairman of the Alkemade department. Today you have given the official kick-off to your work as a representative of the people, on a subject that, as I have said, fits you perfectly. It is a subject that seems to be far removed from the other subject that is on our plenary agenda today and has now been dealt with. But appearances are deceiving, and I'll explain that. The father of the Dutch tax authorities is, as you know, Mr Van de Ven, but then you will be a select company, Alexander Gogel, an incorruptible liberal who in French times managed to build a bureaucratic and centralised tax administration and put in place the then towering public debt. What perhaps fewer people know, is that Gogel was entrusted by Louis Napoleon with the creation of a national art collection from which the present Rijksmuseum was created, a museum that hopes to soon exhibit two special pieces of Dutch heritage in co-ownership. So today's two topics come together wonderfully. Mr Van de Ven, I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber and so suspend the sitting to give colleagues the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech. However, I have said before today, at another maiden speech, that I myself like to be the first to wish happiness. I didn't do that earlier today, because I thought everyone knew that by now. But then I had to get in the middle of it. I would therefore ask Members to wait until I congratulate Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van de Ven on his beautiful maiden speech. We welcome our cooperation over the coming period. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal aimed at ensuring that, in the longer term, the transmission of messages between the taxpayer and the tax administration is only carried out by electronic means. The government believes that the digitalisation of messages can improve the provision of services to the taxpayer and reduce the administrative burden. Well, according to the comedian Will Rogers, the only difference between death and taxes is that death doesn't get worse every time the American Congress meets. I very much hope that taxes will improve when the Dutch Senate meets. To this end, the PvdA would like to bring to the attention of the Secretary of State three aspects of the legislative proposal before us. The first concerns the perspective of the taxpayer who embraces digitisation. What stands out from the investigation The citizen goes digital from the National Ombudsman, is that the majority of citizens think that digital services have advantages. However, 95% of citizens want to be able to choose whether or not to go digital. At the same time, the legislative proposal before us forces citizens to engage in digital contacts. Why does the Secretary of State choose not to respond to this almost unanimous need of citizens to choose for themselves? The University of Twente also makes a number of commendable recommendations in the study De eGovernment from a user perspective. For example, it is advised to use positive incentives in the relatively early phase of electronic service development. The Secretary of State writes in the reply that the Tax Administration makes structural use of insights such as these from the behavioural sciences in developing new forms of service. My group would like to hear from him the extent to which lessons are learned from behavioural sciences in the implementation of the legislative proposal before us. The second point concerns the perspective of the taxpayer who does not embrace digitisation. What stands out from the above-mentioned investigation The citizen goes digital from the National Ombudsman, is that not all citizens can come along with the digital developments and experience a large group of permanent problems with digital services. Are users of different backgrounds sufficiently involved in designing the digital services? Is the principles of design-for-all sufficiently taken into account at all stages of development, so that the service is also useful for people with disabilities, such as people who are blind or visually impaired? In the reply it can be read that 17% are in need of help but do not yet know how to find it. The National Ombudsman therefore recommends providing structural support for citizens who continue to have trouble with digital services, so that access to government is guaranteed for them as well. Does the Secretary of State consider that the government complies with the measures set out in the reply? If so, what does he base that opinion on? What is striking in the reply is that the Tax Administration does not have the personal characteristics of the groups of citizens who are still in contact with the Tax Administration on paper. How can the Secretary of State expect to reach these groups? In the reply, the State Secretary writes that much attention is paid to the findability, accessibility and user-friendliness of services of the Tax Administration. For example, user panels for testing portals and developing a new website are used here. However, the large group that experiences permanent problems with digital services is not likely to be a member of such user panels. And the customer group that is questioned every two weeks by the Tax Administration on various issues related to digital services is most likely digitally questioned and is therefore not representative. What consequences does the Secretary of State have for this? In addition, it is not unlikely that the taxpayer who does not embrace digitisation will be extra dependent on the proper functioning and implementation of schemes. The National Ombudsman concludes in the report In his debt to the government that there are unnecessarily many problem debts, precisely because all the different government regulations are so complex and often so unclear and unpredictable in their effect. As a result, the government is in practice the most important creditor of the Netherlands. In this context, how does the Secretary of State feel that the present bill relates to the basic duty of care of the government to all its citizens? The third and final point concerns the security of digital infrastructure. What once again stands out from the investigation The citizen goes digital from the National Ombudsman, is that citizens' confidence in their digital government is not very high. The National Ombudsman therefore advises targeted actions to restore confidence in the digital government. How does this bill relate to this opinion, my group asks the Secretary of State. In this context, it is worrying that DigiD is in fact at the end of its life cycle. For example, in its letter of 27 October 2014, the General Court notes that the recommendations on the security of the DigiD environment have not been followed. The General Court's assessment is that the implementation of the Action Plan, which should lead to a DigiD environment meeting security standards, will reduce security risks in the coming period, but not eliminate all security risks. What consequences does the Secretary of State have for this? The Secretary of State writes in the reply that the cabinet is working on the elD system in cooperation with private parties. elD should provide both businesses and citizens with access to online services from both public authorities and businesses. The Personal Data Protection Board (CBP) states that the project currently does not pay sufficient attention to three points that are part of the Personal Data Protection Act (Wbp): responsibility, security and the use of civil service numbers. In addition, the full implementation is long overdue. I would like to hear the consequences of this from my group from the Secretary of State. I'm rounding up. Digitisation is generally seen as progress. This threatens to close our eyes to costs, risks and disadvantages. In this plenary contribution, the PvdA has tried to open its eyes to the needs of taxpayers in all their diversity, precisely because of the special position of the government in the digitisation process. My group therefore looks forward with great interest to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet showed an enormous ambition with the electronic government when it took office. By 2016, all communications should go by electronic means. It hasn't come to that yet, but with this bill, the Secretary of State shows that this route is being built steadily. The members of the SP Group see the absolute added value of electronic reporting. The corridor to the mailbox can be replaced by a push of a button. It is no longer of this time to continue communicating through paper. When we start communicating digitally, the example in Denmark teaches us, it is best to do this 100% at once. The starting point must be that we communicate digitally unless someone indicates that we can't. Such a setup at the UWV ensured that only 10% of the contacts are not digital. So it's possible. By the way, I do not express a value assessment of the quality of this digital service of the UWV; there is still something to be said about that. My group also believes that it is necessary to look at the safeguards needed for such communication. In my view, three factors play a role: accessibility, customer orientation and security. The Netherlands has about 4 million people who have difficulty reading. From blind and visually impaired to people who are dyslexic or low-literate. For this large group, the government has developed web guidelines. Unfortunately, my group notes that many government websites do not comply with this. So is the website of the Tax Administration. Can the Secretary of State ensure that the website complies fully with the web guidelines by the end of the year? The communication and the declaration form are now being digitalized. How does this take account of accessibility? Accessibility is important not only for the websites, but also for the applications that become mandatory for citizens. Is the communication done with a dyslection-friendly font? And are the other tips in the web guidelines included in the development? Then there's customer friendliness. At the moment, the IRS is getting a lot of calls. The employees then help with questions about filling out the declaration. Has the IRS considered helping you through the chat? The biggest challenge will be whether people see the notification. The Secretary of State says that e-mails can disappear in cyberspace, spam filters, trash can or through, as I often experience, a jump from the cat on the keyboard, or simply a computer or internet malfunction. However, this can also be done with a notification. What are the consequences if someone misses a notification? There are, of course, some measures for this. My colleague across the street suggested text notification, and I would like to hear from the Secretary of State why he thinks that is such a bad idea. The government may also indicate whether the messages have been read. If you do not read a message, you can then notify again. Now the notification must also be turned on in the institutions. The Secretary of State asks for a lot of digi-handiness from the average Dutchman. We haven't got that far yet. Why doesn't the Secretary of State turn on this notification by default? The SP also believes that with sufficient support people who are not used to digital communication can be helped. The Secretary of State points out all kinds of possibilities. The elderly in particular have access to support through trade unions or computer associations. However, these are not cost-free. In fact, it can even generate additional costs for people. Low-threshold access to support is very important. Is the Secretary of State prepared to offer sufficient support? Does he also want to monitor whether this support is sufficient? And is he willing to release money to ensure that there is enough low-threshold support when monitoring shows that there are problems with financing that support? Then safety. I know the IRS is doing its utmost to keep this place secure. But there's no such thing as an unbreakable vault. So we're not gonna pretend we can. The question I can put to the Secretary of State is how the government continues to do its utmost. ICT problems in the government have been a thorn in the eyes of parliament for many years. My group is therefore extremely concerned about the ad interim head of the BIT, the ICT Examination Office, to be set up. He used to work at Capgemini and now works at Deloitte. This guy gets to put the team together. This does not give rise to confidence in the urgency of solving ICT problems, but much more so it demonstrates a stubborn refusal to learn lessons from the past. And that's exactly what's needed right now. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I would also like to say a few words about DigiD, but I understand the gap in which we find ourselves, namely that this Secretary of State is not about DigiD, but is cooperating in it. Nor is this Secretary of State about ICT security, not about being digitally aware, and yet all of these are issues that touch this issue. This reflects the importance of all ICT thinking in government. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State some questions about DigiD. Because indeed, as I said, DigiD is still unsafe. Across the street, I asked for a better system years ago. Last year Mrs Duthler asked for this in this Chamber. For years we have been working with this system pending indeed the eID. And, Mr President, I will tell you that eID is far from coming. There are so many problems with getting that safe and above all to build trust and support. We are talking first about eID only for citizens, then for businesses, then for a service and then for all services, for all services and businesses, and now we are talking about an eID system for the whole of Europe. By the time we get that done, I won't be here for a long time. In the meantime, will the Secretary of State be committed to a new DigiD system or a safer system? Finally, a little thing. In preparing this debate I wanted to go to the site of MyGovernment. I am one of those who have already signed up for this. So I know My Government. I reviewed "mygovernment.nl." I'm not pressing "Ww" anymore. The server was untraceable. So I enter "www.mijnoverheid.nl," but that server was also untraceable. Google then told me it was "www.my.government.nl." I don't know which IT marketer genius came up with this, but I'll tell you that most of the people aren't gonna think of that. Does the Secretary of State therefore wish to retain the URL name that is also used in the corporate identity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u11	I shall suspend the sitting until 7.15 p.m., and I hope that everyone will be able to have taken the meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u12	I have another announcement to make that was not made at the beginning of this afternoon's sitting. Here's to it. Received is a letter from the Chairman of the Permanent Committee for Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation d.d. 29 September 2015 to the President of the First Chamber giving the opinion to the letter from the Foreign Affairs Ministers, from Defence, for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and from Security and Justice d.d. 19 June 2015 on the extension of the Dutch contribution to MINUSMA until the end of 2016 to be adopted for notification. The letter is in the hall for inspection. If no objections were raised at the end of the sitting, I assume that the Chamber has agreed with the opinion of the committee on BDO. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van de Ven on his maiden speech. It's nice to be there. I shall, of course, answer his questions. I would also like to thank the others for their questions. The Chamber monitors the feasibility, but also the accessibility. That is a good thing, because we have seen many problems with accessibility and feasibility in the field of taxation. It is good that we are discussing this and that it is being properly tested. To prove that I am not the blindering "digiman" who may fear the Chamber, I have traditionally written all my notes in hand on scraps. I hope that will only make the argument more credible. I'm gonna take one step back. We are talking about the digital messages, but of course they are part of a larger whole. If we take one step backwards and look at the entire painting and then zoom in on the subject, we know what the part of it is: the broader agenda of the Tax Administration. That was the reason for me to come here. We have lost one excellent Secretary of State in my view. That was the reason for me and that is why, of course, I consider it my mission. That didn't look so pretty at first. Old systems weren't linked. The information was all separate. Everything was loose. There has been ever-greater and outdated communication with taxpayers. There were fewer and fewer people left for control. It was a craft process, but the craft was a bit worked out. It was a hopelessly justified process in which each of you in this Chamber has to struggle through as many as five legal decisions before you can pay your taxes once. There were 20,000 hardworking, but "broken" employees. That was the image we found. And there was the big dream of everything in one system: we put in a few billion and then we have that one system that has everything in it. I don't think there's anyone in this room who really believes that we should put a few billion in the Tax Administration into one big ICT project to solve it all at once. On average we are now a year and a half further and we have come a step forward. The existing systems are now largely linked, by the way, with existing software and with very limited resources. This means that the control no longer needs to be done by simple rules of thumb or gut feeling, but that we can do big data analysis to see where the target is greatest. The lieutenant's chance of getting hit is gonna go up with that. We are on the eve of a major dejurision operation, the "developing" and digitalisation. Where's that going? In the end, the Chamber will have to hold me to it, to a tax administration that will eventually pick up more with a smaller service: in the medium term even up to 5,000 people less. It would be the first time since I was born that the IRS is getting smaller. That's the bigger painting, but part of it is electronic messaging. Electronic messaging is of course not a novelty. By the way, none of the spokesmen said that either. It's not a moon landing. It was already in the coalition agreement that everything has to be digital from 2017, but part of it will also have to be digital. I will come back later to why "must" and "may" should be mutually exclusive. We have already seen it in the Collecting Act SZW: a step-by-step commitment to a more digital environment. We almost all do the surcharges digitally. That is not yet mandatory, but there are very few people applying for paper forms. This amounts to 500 out of 1 million final awards in 2014. This is also happening in other countries. In Denmark and Estonia everything is mandatory digital. Finland is an important case. The same effort was made there, but it was not required. I'll be right back. Many spokesmen therefore asked not so much questions about it or, but more about how and when. That is what I heard in Mrs Prast's speech. I do not think she is denying digitisation, but she is concerned about the implementation process. She gave a number of examples of this, which also made her argument very credible in which things did not go very well. What are we focusing on? We focus on what I call an intelligent introduction. That means step by step. One step has been tested and passed before you take another step. You start with the safest streams. So you typically start with the year messages. For surcharges you start with the automatic continuous letter of surcharges. If you don't do anything with it or don't receive it, it won't go wrong. Of course, you don't start with the objections or the reminders. Mrs. Prast mentioned the warrants. Well, they're not eligible to be taken into account at the beginning of this trajectory. That's asking for trouble. Every time we take a step, we run in parallel with paper and digital for a year. Should it be over a year, it'll be over a year. But an introduction path, a timetable is not there with that. We've been asked whether the timeline is too strained, but there's no timeline. If it succeeds, we'll make the next step. If it doesn't work out, we'll find out what that is and fix it. We monitor the usage. Is it read? Who does it become and who doesn't read it? What could that be about? What can we come up with on that? The Tax Administration is helped by people we employ ourselves: nudging specialists. I do not know whether that word is in the Van Dale and whether the spokesmen think 'walk over' or whether they are academically trained in it. The tax administration's nudging specialists lure and frame everyone to the right digital usage. There are experts involved at the University of Twente, who look at each step to see if it is a successful step. If it isn't, then we're not ready for the next step. If the automatic continuous letter is not properly read, opened and consulted, then we are also not in a position to accept the objections and the notices of formal notice. We also keep in touch with the safety net parties, such as older people's associations. That is the monitoring that Mrs Gerkens is asking for. Those parties report their experiences and tell us what it might suspend. That is, as Mr Knapen said, the caution we must exercise with regard to the elderly taxpayer. We measure through panels, a kind of user groups, what happens, what people react to and what they don't. Finally, we use a smart notification. This means there are notification e-mails. Mrs Gerkens asked why we didn't turn it on automatically. If you make yourself known on MyGovernment and you activate it, you will immediately be asked at which address you can reach. It'll be on automatically. This means you can find your messages there. There will be automatic notification e-mails. The experience teaches the nudging specialists that if you send "you've got mail," which sounds like a very exciting movie, people aren't triggered to look at that mail. You need to send a content-filled notification email. One should be curious about what it is about and consider it important to open that mail. Why does it go through notification e-mails and not via text messages, for example? It will not be possible in future with notification e-mails. I have here the beta-beta version of the app on my phone. If I can make sense of this, maybe it'll be the beta version. This means that you will have an icon for MyGovernment's mailbox that shows how many mails there are. I've got four now. The beta-beta version isn't working very well, I can say, but that's my problem. This should not become the user's problem. In that environment you'll find that's also a reason to get above that 20%... everything you have to do with the government. Now it's a pretty uninteresting portal, but it's gonna be the tool for your child care allowance, your cock, your passport and so on. Those things all come together on your cell phone. You'll find what's there by e-mail or something else. All this still has to be tested. It's all being tested on me now, because I belong to the testing target group, which consists of people with less than average patience with digital tools. I'm just confessing. That's the way. So the timeline is the timeline. The user determines the timeline. If it works, we can go faster. If it doesn't work, we have a problem to solve. That's what we've got. The Tax Administration is, of course, solving problems that will later apply to the entire Empire. If we don't use the message box, we have a bigger problem. The question remains whether this is a viable map for everyone. Mr Ester asks the question in such a way that he indicates that he does not think that this is a viable map for everyone. I think he even suggested I was a technocrat. He did not immediately call me that, but warned against the technocrats and cited Mr Omtzigt as the one to save us from the technocracy. Now I don't know if I think that's the happiest example, but that's up to everyone. Anyway, it has to work, even for groups that are less comfortable with it. Income tax is almost entirely digital. Now, according to the latest figures, 89% of people aged over 72 already report digitally. Do all these people do that themselves? No, but they didn't do that all by themselves back in the day. A lot of people think it's complicated at all. Of the 72-year-olds, therefore, 89% of the declaration is processed digitally. This percentage goes up every year. For people who find this whole tax thing rather difficult, digital is the result. We used to have to travel all the way to Grandma's in Winterswijk in order to pry there in the dresser and get to the papers and then fill out the declaration forms, traveling from where did we live again? Schiedam. Now we're doing that digitally. It thus also makes it easier for the aid provider to provide assistance. This applies not only to the provider of assistance within the family or family, which is very common, but also to the Aid for Declaration, on which groups who are not able to use this family or family luxury are designated. Of course, I occasionally come to the help with the declaration to see how it works and see people with a shopping bag full of papers without always the right paper. It is nice if this can be done digitally, because then there can be looked at on the spot and all the stuff is at hand. In the long run, this will be supplemented by the right advice and by the question whether anyone has thought of this or that. I am referring to the lists that Mr Van de Ven is asking for. These are, of course, the triggers in the digital environment. It is then possible to ask the person reporting whether he realizes that something, for example, is not yet in the VIA. That's what I'll be back for later. An authorisation can also be arranged for directors of people who are under curatel, making it easier for those for whom matters are more difficult. One group on which you can of course ask a special question, consists of people who are not "digital," but who were able to complete their declaration independently. That kind of people seem to find the Internet more complicated than taxation. For that, I think you have to be genius in a very special way, but well, they exist. All kinds of support is also available for this group. I will shortly mention some of the support forms that have been delivered and some of them to be provided in a structural way. After all, there will always be people who have problems with a specific medium. So a lot of people had trouble with the medium letter. Safety has been mentioned a lot. Let me first highlight that digital security is important at all, even if you don't make digital reporting mandatory. We are not talking about digital or non-digital at the moment; digital is already there. Digital reporting will be possible for everyone as well. We are only talking about the obligation and safety. Safety requirements are now as strict as in the situation where digital reporting is not mandatory. In itself, therefore, we are not setting anything in motion that makes security more important. The question may be asked whether it is safe. Is DigiD, for example, also sufficiently safe? At the moment we are working on a much safer and more reliable DigiD. There is an action plan at the Empire, but there are also private ways to provide a safe means of identification. On 15 October a.s., for example, the Tax Administration starts with a pilot to log in with a debit card. We can also assume that the bank card is safe, because otherwise money would disappear easily from bank accounts. And if there's one means of identification that needs to be very safe, then it's your own bank's, otherwise you really have a bigger problem than just the declaration. Mr Plasterk is working on the successor of DigiD. He does so together and in line with the recommendations of the Personal Data Protection Board. Anyway, the IRS is already starting with a pilot to enable people to log in with, for example, their debit card. I am very grateful to Mr Van de Ven for the attention he has drawn to the VIA, the pre-filled declaration. It is nice that the pre-filled declaration, which I personally always nominate as the most successful ICT project of the Empire, is now such an important part of a maiden speech. Why do I find this VIA so successful? Firstly, the philosophy behind this ICT project is entirely in line with what we have designed for ourselves since the Elias Commission: step by step, first see if it works and then another step. This is exactly how we see the roll-out of digital communication in front of us. The VIA has become richer every year, perhaps without us having noticed it in concrete terms. So every year we have to fill in less. Now 60% of people do not have to fill anything out, soon it will be 80% and then 95%. We told each other 15 years ago at birthday parties: gee, it's possible that you never have to fill anything in again and that all you have to do is sign it? That signature has now become the yes key, again on this device: my smartphone. The VIA did that for us. The VIA thus makes a much greater contribution to the accessibility of the tax system, including for low-skilled, tax illiterates and any other taxpayer, than any conceivable letter on the mat. I am not trying to respond to the suggestions made by Mr Van de Ven for the VIA in a hurry, because I would be failing this carefully balanced ICT project. I am taking the suggestion for study so that I can give a more sunken judgment on it than I could do tonight. I repeat that, in my view, this is one of the most successful ICT projects in the Empire. Such a project I would destroy if I made all kinds of brutal promises that may later prove unwise. With this I do not say that the suggestions are unwise. I think Mr Van de Ven has been around taxation for a long time now than I have. Mr Ester has very explicitly called for attention to be paid to the new form of support for those groups that are less comfortable. Hopefully, a comprehensive communication campaign will begin after the votes. The letter has come to an end and is gradually being replaced, step by step. People need to know that. They need to know there's something like a message box. There will be additional phone numbers, so some kind of helpdesk, for people who are wondering how to file a digital report. Furthermore, we are testing a chat function, so that people can get help with going digital in that box via the regular website of the Tax Administration. The counters must also be arranged on them. People are going to report to the counters saying, "All right, all right," but give me a hand, how am I supposed to handle this?" There people will have longer time to help people get on the road with digital communication. This is taken into account in their planning. There's also some kind of webcare feature. Then social media reacts to people who don't know their way around. Through social media people are watched and helped to get it done. For intermediaries, separate instructional material shall be made. They are trained so that they too can help people again. This could include interbranch organisations, domes, representative organisations and trade unions. We are in agreement with them to ensure that they can play their role properly. And of course, that's also kind of a help.......................................................................................................................................................... By mid-2016 the regular version should be available. I don't think we're sending out the beta-beta version for a while. Then, of course, Mrs Sent's question remains important. This is all true, but so far in this speech you could say: that's nice, but then it's still voluntary. Why should it be compulsory, Mrs Sent asks. All the good things we do, we get helped by that, but why do we have to make it mandatory? I will not surpass Mr Van de Ven with his Latin, but I have the next one for you. It's from the director of the Danish digitisation agency. Slut med papirblanketter og brevpost. Ha, there you are, aren't you? Statistically speaking, a third of you have had classic languages in high school, but this is Danish and that's no use to you! It says here, "Get rid of all the paper mail."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u14	I have a Danish son-in-law. I can understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u15	You're cheating! Get rid of all the paper mail. The Danish experience is a live experiment that shows us that if your people do not at some point, at the end of the journey, after all the experiments and habitation, there are still too many people who can do it easily but simply don't get there. I'm comparing it to the Finnish situation. Those people just need a little push. Now I make myself extremely vulnerable, because here, yes, is a liberal who has great difficulty with paternalism, saying that sometimes you have to give people a boost. Anyway, paternalism is until now when there is also a self-interest. The self-interest in this case is that the Tax Administration is going to function better, that costs can be reduced and that we can ultimately, when possible and not earlier, get rid of these two different information flows; the papers and the non-papers. In his research, Mr Ester also based himself on the figure that 40% of people over 65 do not have the Internet. According to CBS, however, 90% of the 65- to 75-year-olds have internet access. 76% of them are active on a daily basis. 89% of the 72-plussers also report digitally. Those are the numbers as we experience them. I can point out the room to my mother, 76 years old, who Skyps mobile, but, yeah, what's the use of mobile skypes? So I'm not making that happen, I'm telling you honestly. Mrs Gerkens had a number of questions about the website of the Tax Administration. The working hypothesis is that it has an outdated browser. If I type "my government," with or without space and with or without point, then I come up with my.overheid.nl. That's how the browser takes you there. So we think it's her browser. The web guidelines are important. The site does not yet meet this requirement on many business components, but they are also less priority than the private parts. The private parts largely comply with it, but there are a few special modules that are now being tested, also a few interactive ones, which are not yet fully compliant. I also say to Mrs Gerkens that now we are experimenting with the dyslexic font. That is being worked on now, but it is right that it has not yet been achieved. However, it is in the plans. Mr Ester is concerned, also understandable, about the blind and the low-literate. I must point out, however, that the classic letter on the doormat for the blind and the low-literate was no more than ideal. In the digital age, the website of the Tax Administration provides a reading function for most parts. I certainly know that the blue letter did not allow itself to be read automatically. The reading function has been added just for low-lettered and blind people. Mr President, I feel that I am now through the main questions. I may have missed a single detail, but I will certainly be reminded of that. However, I wanted to leave it at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u16	Compliments on the way in which the Secretary of State has been able to answer the many questions in a short space of time. I understood that he will continue to monitor with all the organisations involved whether there is sufficient support and whether everything can be covered. I also asked him if he intends to reserve a small pot in case it appears during the monitoring that some financial support is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u17	Can I interpret Mrs Gerkens' question in such a way that we do what is necessary to make the project work? In Finance, it's always a curse to start talking about jars. The "unpotenment" of the government has taken place. There were separate jars everywhere. When you're at the Treasury Department, you want all the jars gone. But it remains the case that we are doing what is necessary to ensure that this succeeds; that is what I say to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u18	So I understand from the State Secretary's answer that money should not be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u19	Ultimately, this leads to savings. If any interference and effort is needed to achieve that saving, then so be it. I think we all recognise that if the project does not succeed, we will get into the problems that Mrs Prast has just described, and they are ultimately more expensive. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u20	I had asked whether the Tax Administration now knows whether it will send letters of formal notice in writing or digitally in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u21	We do it in the path that is feasible. I can already tell Mrs Prast that letters of formal notice within one year, and I would almost say two years, are not feasible. We must first test the less dangerous flows and get good results and get the Dutchman to the message box. The final part is the more 'dangerous' documents that Mrs Prast is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u22	And my follow-up question was: is the 60 million that are expected to be based on digital sending of letters of formal notice or on the apparently planned paper sending of letters of formal notice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u23	I think the letters of formal notice are such a small part of the whole thing that I don't know if this matters much. I do know that if you switched to digital at some point, sending letters might be counterproductive. I must remain guilty of the answer to this question. I can ask for a precise answer on the construction of the 60 million, but this would be my preliminary answer. As soon as we get used to a digital environment, Members of Parliament will all make me look like crazy if I came up with the opposite proposal: let's do it by post! That is the case with the reminders, but also with all other things. Because the safety requirements that we put on digitally, we're really gonna make it from its very long, she won't live with a letter that ends up on the mat. I happen to know that we in Amsterdam simply did not find a significant proportion of households, because they were not registered at all at the right address. That's the problem with paper mail. Now, when we think about the security of paper mail, we simply shiver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u24	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I must say that I admire his vitality and his optimism. They're kind of contagious anyway. This is of course what ICT projects need, because otherwise they will not get off the ground. The Secretary of State says if we need more than a year for it, we will. At first I thought there was no hatchet, so it must be possible in 2017 and parallel structures are not possible. The suggestion is awakened, if it's more than a year, so be it, let's stay practical and take that into account. But further on, the Secretary of State made it clear, if I understand correctly, that a parallel journey, written and digital, is not actually coming to Frage at all. He quotes the director of a Danish agency, who said what he said: do not do so, otherwise it will leak and take more time. My question, like my colleague, Mr Sent, is whether it is not possible to allow citizens to choose more and more. Do we not also have something like an elementary duty of care, which is more than just helping to make a declaration available and giving us the opportunity to get used to it with a little more time, step by step? The relationship between paying taxes and feeling like a citizen in a state is too important to play too much with this, as I said. That is why I call once again on the Secretary of State to give this time for a few years. That doesn't bring down the cuts and the tax authorities. It shows more compassion from the government towards the tax-paying citizen, especially the tax-paying older citizen, than this hatchet construction, which is very serviceable, but which means: it's 2017 and after that it's over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State and his officials for answering our questions. Let us be clear that the Christian Union Group has no problem in itself with the process of digitising the tax return and the electronic messaging between Tax Administration and taxpayer. That is an irreversible process. I have argued in detail that we have a great deal of concern about vulnerable groups of taxpayers who do not have the right digital skills to properly deter themselves, who can barely stand up; people with limited intellectual abilities, digibetes, people without computers, people without e-mail addresses. In this room we apparently assume that everyone has an e-mail address, but that is not the case. Some groups of older people are also difficult to participate in. We believe that this legislative proposal is speeding up the entire digitisation process too much. There are groups that are affected by this bill and the planned support structure is still not sufficiently tailored to them. Digital self-reliance is not for these groups. These are groups which need the protection of the public authorities. My group continues to disagree with the Secretary of State on these points. He's got a different worldview. That is the world of the digitally skilled people in the Netherlands who will find their way. Above all, we want to stand up and draw attention to those who do not. A digital blockade is being created that frustrates the access of weak groups of taxpayers to the tax domain. That's how it's experienced. We should not want this in the light of citizenship and community spirit. In that sense, the story is not balanced. The benefits for the Tax Administration and for taxpayers are obvious, but this is not the case for groups that cannot participate. My group believes that we need to take more time for this far-reaching digitisation process and to ensure better support for vulnerable groups. For groups that really can't compete, we need to be creative and offer customization. We believe that the Secretary of State is too hasty here, that we should take more time for the two-track policy and deal more creatively with the introduction period, as Mr Knapen also pointed out. Now it threatens to become the better enemy of good. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u27	Madam President. I've heard a few things that made me happy, for example, that if notifications e-mails are sent, they will be content. All the better, because a meaningless notification of course gives you nothing. Thank you to the Secretary of State for that. I heard something that made me happy, but actually not again. The Secretary of State said that the user sets the timetable, but that is precisely not the case in this bill. In this bill, the ministerial regulation determines the timetable. What struck me and what appealed to me a little less is the reaction to Mrs Gerkens' efforts to find My Government. It's not the Tax Office, it's Mrs. Gerkens, because she doesn't have the right browser. The debt is never really in the hands of the Tax Administration, the Tax Administration thinks. The Secretary of State said something about nudging. I know a thing or two about that. Nudging is a good choice architecture, by setting it in such a way that the citizen, or the one you address, without thinking, makes the right choice. That's not what this is. I wish. Then I come to the support for those who have been able to do it on their own until now. The form of this support is that the aid seeker needs to find a physical window, because the essence is that the group we are talking about is not doing it digitally. Leaving that aside, I ask whether people who have so far been able to do things independently, which gives a sense of satisfaction and strength, should soon seek help. Then you can say: that help is there and there we put time, money and effort into it, but that does not make it more enjoyable for those who are concerned. On the contrary. Actually, you're taking them away from some kind of autonomy. Then I have another challenge for the Secretary of State. If this commitment is made, it will still be possible for me to speak positively on this bill in the group. According to the legislative proposal, the way in which electronic messaging takes place is determined by ministerial rules. Groups and circumstances may also be identified under ministerial rules which may, respectively, lead to the transmission of messages other than by electronic means. That ministerial arrangement is in concept. Article 2 lists four groups which are excluded from mandatory electronic messaging. Is the Secretary of State prepared to add a group to that, namely anyone who has not applied for notification? The Secretary of State has announced a campaign by the Tax Administration. It could be aimed at encouraging people to apply for notification. The optimism of the Secretary of State is contagious, according to Mr Knapen, but I would say that it is almost contagious. If that optimism is right, a lot of people are going to apply for the notification. If that is not the case, we should be glad that we have not introduced the obligation to digital communications. If the Secretary of State comes gradually to the point that the group may lapse, we ask him to consult with the Chamber in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u28	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Secretary of State for his explanation and the many answers he has given, in particular to the questions from other groups. The image that emerges from me is that of the transition from the goose feather to printing. When that happened, of course there was also a huge fuss. It will not have been handled as carefully as it is now promised. There's been a development, and you can't stop it anymore. You have to go along with it. You can be defensive, but you can also try to make the best of it. That is what I hear in the words of the Secretary of State in response to the questions from the other groups. My own questions become the subject of study. That's good. It may be the nature of the questions. The Secretary of State has not made a commitment, but I would like to know at what time I hear something. On the one hand, I would like to hear a deadline, on the other hand, I hope that I will also receive six answers to my six questions, most recently on the occasion of the 2017 Tax Plan. This is in the autumn of 2016, because 2017 will be the first mandatory digital declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the speed and enthusiasm with which he has answered the questions in the first term. Digitisation doesn't seem to stop. Often it means progress, but not always. It is precisely because of the basic duty of care of the government that we urged the Secretary of State to manage the process of electronic messaging with the Tax Administration. To this end, in the first period, we have called for particular attention to be paid to three aspects of the legislative proposal before us. I'd like to walk past it in order in second term. Our first point concerns those taxpayers who embrace digitalisation and need to be able to make choices. We are convinced by the lessons from the Danish experiment. We ask the Secretary of State to explain a little more about the differences between the Danish and Dutch contexts and to what extent the lessons can actually be translated into the Dutch situation. We are of course pleased with the nudging specialists at the Tax Office. What remains is the Secretary of State's plea that the user determines the timetable. To what extent does that happen? What if the timetable isn't what the Secretary of State expects? What position does Parliament have if the timetable is not as expected and the user is not satisfied with the progress? To what extent are we kept informed and to what extent can we influence it? Our second point concerns taxpayers who do not embrace digitisation. We are pleased that so-called safety net groups are involved in the design of digitalisation. We have noted the need for structural support for accessibility. We are pleased that the Secretary of State has said that this support remains structural. He promised us a few more details about the support. I would like to hear them again, because I have not heard them in his first term. The third point concerns the security of digital infrastructure. We understand that there is a constant search for new, safe digital systems. If new possibilities arise, we have great confidence in the Secretary of State that these developments will work out. However, we would like to be reassured a little bit more and we would like to hear what this confidence is based on. Perhaps this is rather a debate we should have with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, but the subject is also relevant to the legislative proposal we are discussing today. It is precisely because of the basic duty of concern of the government to all its citizens in all their diversity that we hope that the Secretary of State can adequately address our remaining concerns about the present legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u30	Do you have an opportunity to answer directly or shall we suspend for five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u31	Can I have ten?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u32	You want to suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u33	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u34	Mr. Chairman. I want to answer in the order of the questioners. First of all, I come to Mr Knapen. In a way, it is good that he has asked his question again, because I have not yet been quite clear and really want to reassure him. The wishes he has, I actually have exactly the offer. The essence of his speech is: give this time for a few years. I did not get the impression that this is exactly the proposal. The proposal is to take some years, beyond 2017 and probably beyond 2019, to make this transition. But by power switching, there's one year in parallel. If that did not work for that power because we measure, see, get back that it does not work, that year is not so well chosen, because that year is a minimum and not a maximum. But the whole route will take several years; not two, but more. That's exactly the idea. That's not gonna make it a trap axe, because whoever wields the trap axe is gonna fail. At DUO it may have been the trap axe, but those who never require it and eventually never switch to "but now it must" become a Finland and not Denmark. This will take several years and requires continuous monitoring. That's what I mean by "taxpayers set the pace." I shall come back to that later, because Mrs Prast has asked a question that has something to do with that. I said this to reassure Mr Knapen, because what he just said is exactly, but precisely, the ambition. Perhaps my saddest moment is, quite frankly, that I have not been able to convince Mr Ester, because the principles he formulates fit the Tax Administration par excellence. The Tax Administration has to do with everyone and it doesn't fit the Tax Administration just to focus on the digitally skilled person. Paying taxes and receiving supplements must be a viable card for everyone. It is also not in the interest of the Tax Administration to make it impossible for some people, because whose sign ends up with the bill if people can't? On the board of the tax authorities, because they have to implement the laws and they can't do that if people can't. Those vulnerable groups, I say to Mr Ester, already exist. As a rule, they don't fill out their tax bill themselves. For those vulnerable groups, we have a huge infrastructure. The Aid for Declaration is a circuit used by 500 000 taxpayers in the Netherlands. This is therefore an enormous infrastructure, almost a separate civil society, in which the Tax Administration itself, trade unions and umbrella organisations meet in large locations such as schools and universities to arrange declarations. It is an impressive part of paying taxes and working together. For these groups, digitisation becomes a means of making it easier. They didn't fill out the paper. In fact, they didn't always take it from the mat and it wasn't always in their shopping bag. Digitalization makes it more possible for those people to be helped by professionals. That is already happening, will continue to be the case, and it will be the case in structural terms, because I am sad to say that taxation is simply too complex for many people for the time being. I am deeply sorry that I have not been able to convince Mr Ester of this. I find that I have not convinced Mrs Prast either. The user determines the timeline, she quotes me. She says: no, the ministerial arrangement sets the timetable. That's a fake contradiction. The ministerial arrangement is a way of formalising something, but it must of course be tailored to the management of this process. The kick-off in this debate was the responsibility of Mr Knapen, who said that we should not sit on the manager's seat. We shouldn't. So we have to let the professionals see when it works and when it doesn't. But on the basis of a motion in the Lower House, I made a commitment to inform the Lower House, and therefore the Upper House, every time a step is taken. How does democratic control take place, as Mrs Sent also asks? In any case, the House of Representatives never lacked any control movements towards the Tax Administration. I myself spent three hours in the Chamber discussing the Tax Phone. The problem is similar: an outdated medium on which much is to be said and with which not everything is going well. I have never hesitated to debate this, even if there is no ministerial arrangement. So the ministerial arrangement does not determine anything but is formalisation. After all, it's the user who shows you're okay. However, I did not find any way to comply with Mrs Prast's request. In order not to become Finland, it has failed, but to become a Denmark, I have succeeded in not allowing the opt-out, because that is what it really is, to exist. If you're convinced that it's possible and you've shown it, you have to help the people who haven't really felt like it up to now, at the end of the ride. That's the Danish lesson versus the Finnish lesson. But that is what the Lower House, and therefore the Upper Chamber, is informed about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u35	Let me get this straight. The Secretary of State says that the taxpayer sets the pace. He then said, at Mrs Prast's questions, that he could not meet those who indicated that he wanted to move at a different pace than those who ideally had the Secretary of State in mind. He referred to the quote of the director of that Danish agency. So does the taxpayer determine the pace, or does the Secretary of State want to set the pace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u36	The pace is determined by the taxpayer, but in collectivity and not individually. For a year there is an individual choice. The trajectory will take several years. We may be talking about this in 2019. The individual opt-out eventually disappears, but first things have to go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u37	So, if I understand correctly, it is not the taxpayer but the taxpayer who decides in collectivity or otherwise. The Secretary of State the pace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u38	I told you that eventually, all the way to the end of the ride and only when you've shown that you can, you have to introduce an obligation. That is the Danish lesson, but that does not go in the trapaxy way, not in the DUO way, but after the specialists, the nudgers, the helpers and the experts of the University of Twente have determined that it works. And only then. Unfortunately, I cannot accept Mrs Prast's opt-out, although I note here that you are only doing something if you can. If someone doesn't feel like it for individual reasons, it's all allowed for a while, but not anymore at some point. Mrs. Prast asked about the 60 million. That amount currently relates to the current supplements and income tax messages, i.e. to the invitation to make a declaration and the attack, not to the notices of formal notice. That would be added, but because that is further beyond the horizon, it is not in that amount now. I simply forgot to answer Mr Van der Ven's question. I apologize for that. The tax year 2016 is the first year for which the first mandatory digital declaration exists according to current planning. This means that we will have to do so in the first quarter of 2017. For the most part, we have already done so, because that is how most people do it. Again, if there is reason to believe that the taxpayer is not ready for this obligation, it can also be postponed for another year. It depends very much on the experiences. We await the experiences. We'll check the gauges in the cockpit. If they do not indicate the correct position, action must be taken. Then we need to work harder, then other things have to be made up to attract taxpayers to the digital as the obvious route. I promise Mr Van der Ven to answer his other questions for the treatment of the Tax Plan in this Chamber. I thank him once again for his suggestion and for his enthusiasm for the VIA, which at least gives us a common hobby. Mrs Sent asks about the difference between the Danish and Dutch models. We do not want any difference, because we do not want to fall into the Finnish scenario but into the Danish scenario. This means a very carefully supervised journey, with the obligation at the end. Only then, at the end, must it. That is the timetable we advocate. That is also a bit of the Danish lesson, because it has led to success. It is also controlled by parliament. I have already indicated this in the direction of Mrs Prast. There has never been any hesitation at the Chamber to question the Secretary of State for Finance on the operational aspects of the Tax Administration. That will always be the case, whether it is the Tax Telephone or this problem. In the Omtzigt motion, the Lower House has already forced that Chamber, and thus the Upper Chamber, to be informed for every step. So the figures are added. Then one can say that one does not find something so fantastic and ask whether this or that can still be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u39	At what frequency will the monitoring take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u40	Each step is another experiment within itself. There are always concrete moments, such as the moment of the declaration or the moment of sending a letter, to check whether the message box is being consulted and whether people are doing something with that information. You have a transition per document and then you can measure the result within one cycle. This must provide new information every time. Mrs Sent also asked for more information on structural support. I'm kind of looking for the detail level. The most important structural support is the return aid, the HUBA. Half a million people are helped every year. As a result, the safety net parties also play a role. That's structural. It gets a little easier at some point, because things are getting better in the digital pattern. However, the aid is not under discussion. Just to support the digital part, there is also additional support, such as instruction at the desk and instruction videos. BZK has a whole programme to guide digitalisation and to persuade the people who are at a somewhat greater distance to participate in it eventually. That is not to say that all groups can eventually participate. There are a few groups in the ministerial arrangement that are less likely to happen. It is also not said that, if you are eventually digitized, you have to fill out your own tax bill, but we have the HUBA for that. On paper, a lot of people find it extremely complicated. It's gonna stay that way. We don't change that. Mrs. Sent wants to be reassured a little bit more about safety. That's a broader wish. It even lives with me, because otherwise we would not be working with such a pilot on 15 October. I have an interest in keeping digital security and access to the Tax Administration as far as possible. If there is a mistake with DigiD, I would be very much in favour of a second access option, because otherwise the tax revenues could even stop, because our digital infrastructure is not in order. So we are working on this in a variety of ways, but in order to avoid half-informed and unsophisticated statements, I would like to leave that to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because he has designed a whole programme for it. There's no way I can explain that right now. The Tax Office is only one of the users, but we are heavily dependent on it. Then I agree with Mrs. Sent. I'm through, though I haven't been able to please everyone completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u41	I'm just gonna take a look at the bill. Article 3a (1) states that, by way of derogation from the General Administrative Law, in the movement between taxable person and withholding agent, a message is sent only electronically. Paragraph 2 states that ministerial rules shall determine the manner in which the electronic messaging is carried out. I have invited the Secretary of State to use this ministerial arrangement for greater flexibility in order to respond to the concerns which, if I may say so, live widely in this Chamber. I regret that he does not make that commitment. I'd think if you were so optimistic about the digital future, you'd embrace the use of such a ministerial arrangement. Then you can only send such a message digitally to the people who have asked for notification. With that, you can show that your optimism was right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u42	I have received a whole report from my nudging specialists, but I think this can also be found in the context of the behavioural economy. One of the lessons that has been learned from this is that 80% of the journey has to be done with temptation, making it easier to walk the way you walk, as opposed to getting rid of letters. So there is an end to it with the people who could do it and who have no barriers in their path. At some point, you're gonna have to help them over a threshold. That is the lesson we learn from other countries. If I look across Europe at what has been done for us, we are not the first to do so. That's the lesson I'm taking. That means I can't offer an individual opt-out in a generic sense. However, I can only offer to encourage the ministerial regime, to put the groups on 'digital' only if those groups from all kinds of measurements, monitoring, investigations and panels have shown themselves to be ready. That's what I'm offering. Mrs. Prast is going one step further. She asks for an individual choice, but that can be done infinitely. With that, the Tax Administration remains an envelope factory. We're spitting out 150 million a year right now. That's a small truck a day, but we can't get rid of it if we go down that road. That is the experience the Finns have unfortunately gained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u43	I actually thought I argued for an opt-in. People can choose to receive a notification. If they do, they get the messages digitally. Apparently, the Secretary of State expects 80% or more to do so. That's what I hear. That seems to me to be a very nice score for the Tax Administration, a nice saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u44	This means, however, that you are attached to two different communication channels for years. If you're offering an opt-in, that's an opt-out for anyone who doesn't opt-in. That's pure semantics. Offering an opt-out means that for whatever reason there will always be people who do not come to it. This means that the Tax Administration will remain an envelope factory for years to come. We shouldn't do that. This means that the paper mill will remain and that we will continue to have a dual system. The strategy is aimed precisely at moving to a channel that is inherently better for the needy and the self-employed taxpayer. We are doing this very carefully and step by step, with explicit reference to the lessons which Mrs Prast has rightly referred to here. She was absolutely right about that. The points she mentioned have been the warning lights for this journey. At the very end of the journey we must move to one system and not remain an envelope factory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-9.u45	I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
