ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. The crisis in Europe is still continuing. There is hardly any growth, in many countries there is torrential unemployment and in many places distressing poverty, and in some Member States there is even a threat to human rights. We know that we are surrounded by fireplaces, and we feel unsafe, something that European foreign policy does not seem to have much control over. The State of the European Union has too many challenges to do them all justice in just one debate. The 2015 subtitle of the State of the European Union alone contains enough topics for today: "A democratic and competitive Union that works for all citizens." I will concentrate on that. I would also like to mention a few other points. What about the democratic state of the European Union? In 2013, the Council of State gave the First Chamber an opinion on the anchoring of democratic control on request. Among other things, the Council of State wrote to us: "The reduction of a democratic deficit can not only be achieved by new or changed structures" and "The basis is not self-evident, but will have to be acquired. The 2014 European elections will be an important indicator in this regard." We now know that the turnout in these elections has reached a new low by 42.5% across the Union and that several Eurosceptic parties have gained a lot of support. What does this say about the support for the European project? I'd like to hear the Minister's appreciation. How does he assess the risks on and off a grexit or, following the forthcoming elections in the United Kingdom, a possible Brexit? Even Commission President Juncker provides for the Union's demise if its Commission does not deliver, as I read recently. What strategies are being discussed in the Council and with the Commission in order to deliver enough? And what policy discussions does that lead to? We only know on the main lines and we need to be updated by the Minister, because we cannot properly control it as a public, even as representatives of the people. Most Council meetings have been decided. Even preliminary policy documents are often not public. The Heads of State or Government of the European Union are hiding behind each other. They conclude together that what they discuss in Brussels cannot go outside. The First Chamber has been engaged in a long-standing dialogue with the government on public access to Council documents. Why is it that the government in Brussels is not pushing for the publication of so-called limité documents, non-confidential but internal policy documents? Since the Court of Justice judgment of 17 October 2013 on the interpretation of Article 4 (3) of Regulation 1049/2001, is there any reason to do so? In my group's view, this judgment is an extremely important statement on the transparency and democratic legitimacy of decision-making by the European Council. On the contrary, the Council wants to further strengthen the confidentiality of policy documents, for the sake of the Council's capacity to act and the negotiating area in the Member States. Publicity should ensure that public opinion interferes with the negotiations and that the members of the Council should always return to their national parliaments, according to the Council. I would like to know from the Minister what the situation is now with the tightening-up referred to in that judgment. I hope the Netherlands doesn't go along with that. In any case, the Court of Justice has made a brief assessment of the Council's reasoning. On the contrary, European institutions should give the public the broadest possible right of access to documents of the institutions, since greater transparency should "enhanced the participation of citizens in the decision-making process and increased legitimacy and efficiency and responsibility of the administration vis-à-vis citizens within a democratic system." Instead of difficult delays, public engagement and debate ensure legitimacy, efficiency and responsibility. Does the Minister agree with the SP Group that we have the Court on our side when we make these limited documents public? A similar reasoning applies to the Danish parliamentary mandate, which a minister always has, and should have, in Brussels meetings. This was previously seen by Dutch rulers as a restriction of the negotiating space and therefore not in the Dutch interest. But at an expert meeting in this Chamber fourteen days ago on democratic control in the EU, a Danish contribution showed that Denmark itself believes that not only does democratic legitimacy gain from the parliamentary mandate, but also the strength of negotiation, and that the Danish rulers are therefore satisfied. Can the Minister imagine that, with a clear mandate from Parliament in advance, he is also better off in Brussels? And that such a mandate, to remain in the words of the Court, also leads to greater legitimacy and greater efficiency and responsibility towards the citizens within a democratic system? I come to the discussion of the economic state of the Union. Fortunately, the last signs are that the economy is starting to climb out of the valley a little bit. The coalition parties and the government, with the elections for Provincial States ahead of them, were quick to claim that relief. A little strange, of course, claiming success for an international trend in a country that is beginning to crawl up from the recession. As Dutch economic policy is responsible for the relatively poor performance of the Netherlands vis-à-vis neighbouring countries, European economic policy is responsible for the relatively poor performance of Europe. The numbers speak volumes. Unfortunately, Europe is not growing on its own. Europe is making a difference because of the low price of oil and the cheap euro. Even in Germany, growth is driven by exports, even the US Treasury warns. The EU as a whole has a current account surplus of USD 300 billion this year, mainly for countries such as Germany and the Netherlands. Does the Minister also see these risks of macroeconomic imbalances on the world market and within the EU? If so, what does the government intend to do about this? One of the Commission's priorities, as well as the government's, is to deepen the internal market. Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman points out that after the Second World War liberalisation, coming from high customs tariffs, has generated a lot of growth, but that the revenues from further liberalisation are getting lower and the costs are getting higher and higher. One of the most important costs is turning in control options and the risks involved. Think of the financial crisis, which could also have been caused by liberalisation and deregulation of the financial markets. More important than the question of whether further liberalisation will generate additional growth, is perhaps what the consequences are for social policy distribution and direction. The minister knows the vibrations of Rodrik's international economy. He himself cited it in the debate on the State of the Union in the Lower House. If we do not want a European government, but at the same time we want more economic integration, then this is a vexation that means that you give to democracy. And then the citizens pay in the form of what the minister in the Lower House described as "not merely positive effects." He himself referred to social dumping, underpayment and exploitation. If the European internal market can lead to less democratic control, social dumping and exploitation, then that is nothing compared to TIP. The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership aims to make the EU and the US a single market. Here Rodrik's vibratory is even harder to look around the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u2	Thinking of the theory of Krugman and the other economists quoted by Mr Elzinga, there is a turning point somewhere, missing the direction to allow it to develop economically. Could it be that, because we are in an intermediate phase of integration, we are at precisely that most unfavourable point at the moment? Or are we actually past that point and is there only a way to further integration or dismantling? If we do nothing, if I follow Mr Elzinga's reasoning, we will be in a vague area where there is no direction and democracy is not working properly. I think we're halfway there. Now I wonder whether Krugman's analysis in Mr Elzinga's view means that we have to move forward or that we have to go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u3	According to Krugman's analysis, liberalisation at first produces a great deal, if you come from high customs tariffs, but as the market is further liberalised, it will be less and less profitable and more costly in other respects. It's a sliding bowl. There is indeed a point where you say that you should not continue to liberalise, because in the end it will cost more control than it can provide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u4	Before proceeding with TTIP, there is, of course, still an incredibly large area for liberalisation of the internal market. That is one of the main points of the Minister's letter. I think this point has not yet been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u5	I doubt that, hence my comment. Here Rodrik's vibratory is even harder to look around the corner, I said, speaking of TTIP. After all, we are talking about an internal market. If the EU does not succeed in forming a European government with democratic legitimacy to give that single market proper control, then democratic control of a single market for the US and the EU is certainly a utopia. That's exactly what critics warn of. Does the Minister also see this vibration with regard to TTIP? The European Commission and the Member States are trying to calm down. The Minister also claims that the government does not question the high level of protection in terms of health, social standards, environmental legislation and consumer and legal protection. However, TTIP aims precisely to free trade by removing barriers to products and services "behind the border." This is precisely the regulation that lays down conditions for products and services; conditions relating to working conditions, working conditions, environmental taxes, environmental taxes and consumer protection. The removal of these barriers can be achieved by harmonising these conditions or by mutual recognition. In the case of mutual recognition, you allow products or services to enter your market according to the other's standard. This leads effectively to production in the long term according to the cheapest standard. Harmonising leads to exchange or compromise, and then there must be water in the wine. As a coalition country, we know all about that, don't we? I would like to hear from the Minister whether TTIP is about harmonising or allowing each other's products according to the other standard. Then I have a question about the negotiations on TTIP. What do Member States have to do during the negotiation process? I would ask that following an EU opening bid leaked to the BBC in the negotiations on services and investment under TTIP. I have noticed that many countries require exceptions for many sectors, both in terms of market access and national treatment. The Netherlands requires virtually no exceptions, except when requested by the EU-wide. Why is that? Do we have less national interests than France, Germany or England, for example? Why does the Netherlands not ask to be included in the exception requested by the EU for national treatment when offering services of a social nature? Where the EU reserves the right to take measures in the field of social services, it seems that the Netherlands wants to liberalise these social services under TTIP and thus lose many opportunities for public control over these services. Which services exactly are meant by this? Why does the Netherlands opt for this exemption within the EU? I am committed to a clear and precise answer to this point. Is the assessment that new products and services that are not subject to an explicit exception automatically fall within the scope of TTIP, as a so-called negative list is used in the negotiations on this agreement? Can the Minister confirm that TTIP aims to become a so-called living agreement, in which, at the request of a regulatory body, obstacles can be discussed over and over again and now controversial products and services can later be covered by TTIP? Another concern arising from the EU's leaked TTIP bid for trade in services and investment is the fact that the notes at the beginning state that the bid is based on the Trade In Services Agreement (TiSa). If that's the norm, we never would have heard of it if WikiLeaks hadn't made it public to us last summer. It is still under negotiation, but perhaps the most worrying thing about this agreement and these secret documents, which have been leaked by WikiLeaks, is that they were intended not to be made public until at least five years after the implementation of TiSa. I would like a detailed response from the Minister on this point. Was the Netherlands involved in this through the EU negotiator or at least aware of the state of play in the negotiations, including this bizarre confidentiality clause? It is also worrying that TiSa is once again based on the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS), on which the WTO negotiations in Doha were stalled fourteen years ago. Because it concerns the state of affairs of 14 years ago, it was mainly about further liberalisation and deregulation, including financial services. After all, it was far before the financial crisis. What is the position of the Netherlands with regard to this type of liberalisation and deregulation within TiSa and with regard to the transparency shown in that agreement? The SP Group welcomes the Minister's remark in the Lower House regarding TTIP that investors cannot or should not expect that rules do not change or never change. Does this also explicitly mean that new regulation, provided it has been democratically established and thus serves the general interest, should not be subject to a claim under so-called Investor to State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) in TTIP? What does this new understanding mean for other treaties, such as the CETA negotiated with Canada and already existing investment protection agreements in which the Netherlands is a party? When will the Minister of BuHa-OS come to appreciate existing treaties with ISDS in this respect? during the debate on the State of the Union, objections were raised against existing ISDS clauses. With regard to TTIP, the Minister mentioned these assumptions because TTIP has not yet been negotiated. However, if these results were to prove themselves, we would be against such a system, the Minister said. What consequences does this position have for CETA and the already existing ISDS practice? Because that is what these observations of the House of Representatives were about. The Minister stated in the Lower House that the cabinet does not want arbitration in TTIP to cross the national court. He also mentioned countering forum shopping. The investor still has freedom of choice, but once he has chosen he has to stick to his choice. Does the government choose here for the so-called fork-in-the-road principle? The House of Representatives has made it crystal clear that TTIP should not contain any dispute resolution that undermines our national legal system. According to the SP, the Court states that international investors are not allowed to cross national courts through arbitration in TTIP. Does the Minister share this view? The aim of TTIP is to have confidence in production standards in the US and vice versa. But why should we not have confidence in each other's rule of law? If we do, then ISDS isn't necessary at all, is it? The US was and is already the largest investor from outside the European Union in the European Union and vice versa, without ISDS. Can the Minister make it clear what would suspend our national law, which, according to the European Commission, would suddenly have to offer ISDS to foreign investors? Why should we no longer be able to trust American property rights? Is the Cabinet aware that the OECD, through Secretary-General Gurría, warns against distortion of competition by allowing international investors to cross national courts through ISDS and not national investors? The EU has a number of so-called intra-EU investment protection agreements, a remnant of treaties with some Central and Eastern European countries before their accession to the EU. The EU sees these treaties as highly undesirable, but the Netherlands does not participate, for example, in requests from the Czech Republic to terminate these investment protection agreements with the Netherlands. Why not? Is that because headquarters located in the Netherlands make a lot of money from claims against affected countries? Or because these countries are problematic on a constitutional level? If that were the case, would these countries have never been allowed to join the EU? If, as I think, there is no such problem, what is the Netherlands' argument against the European Commission not to cooperate in the termination of these intra-EU investment protection agreements? Finally. The Prime Minister indicated in the discussion of the State of the Union in the Lower House that in addition to TTIP and other priorities, the approach to tax avoidance will also be on the agenda of the Dutch Presidency of the Council of the EU. The EU previously estimated that its Member States together miss out on some EUR 1,000 billion per year due to tax avoidance. We could tackle a lot of problems with that. The Netherlands too is seriously suffering from tax avoidance. Our statutory corporate tax rate is already low internationally and is 25%, but according to the OECD much less is being contributed. Almost nowhere companies pay as little as in the Netherlands, on average only 7%. The OECD reported last year, in a discussion with the G20 on the approach to tax avoidance in the international context, that the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in particular are obstructing. The Netherlands previously objected to a general anti-abuse clause when adapting the European Parent-Subsidiary Directive. Now that we want to set it up as the EU President, will the Netherlands really take a constructive part in the international approach to tax avoidance? Or do we want to risk an ever worse reputation? I'd like a response from the Minister. Like Senator De Vries, I would also like to hear the Minister's response to the European Commission's proposal for the exchange of tax rulings at European level. I'm about to finish. It is good practice in this Chamber not to forget that Europe is bigger than the European Union. The economic union, the internal market, still has some shadow members within the European Economic Area. The EU also wanted to offer Ukraine similar status through a Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement; other spokespersons also said something about it. Does the Minister still think that, unfortunately, with wisdom afterwards, this is a happy offer? In and around Ukraine, the threat of armed conflict has still not disappeared. It has once again led to the suspension of Russia's voting rights in the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, while Lavrov participates in the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers without any objection. How does the Minister view Russia's barriers to participation in the Council of Europe? And more importantly, what strategy does he see to gradually dampen tensions around Ukraine and Russia? Would the Minister also give a brief response to the EU's accession to the ECHR? Other spokesmen have already referred to this. The SP Group believes that the Council of Europe offers valuable instruments to promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law, especially to non-EU countries. Is that worth something to the Minister? If so, with the budgetary negotiations on the budget for the Council of Europe, will the Netherlands make it clear that after years the zero line can finally be abandoned? Possibly at the expense of EU budget. After all, the EU spends a day on which the Council of Europe has to spend a whole year. With one promille of the EU budget, we are already solving a lot of problems at the Council of Europe. There is still a great deal of work to be done in Europe, both inside and outside the European Union, especially for a democratic Union that works for all citizens. If the government wants to keep some grip on that Union, then deepening the internal market and TTIP should not in any case be a matter of sensible policy priorities. The SP Group looks forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. The third consecutive Foreign Minister is present today for the European reflections on the same term of office of this Chamber. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to welcome him no less than his predecessors. These rapid changes also have a positive effect: my group is seeing an upward trend in the European attitude of the cabinet through this Minister for Foreign Affairs. Perhaps it would be better to speak of using a thaw from the freezing point with the Rutte I cabinet and Minister Rosenthal to a gently breaking spring under this minister. But one swallow doesn't make a summer yet. In today's debate, my group wants to try to look a little further than today's concerns. I'll take the starting point of the Rutte I cabinet on the Facebook timeline. Even at that time, before the thaw started, the Netherlands was, in the eyes of this prime minister, a 'cool country', but a cool country that had a domestic political problem with Europe. This was the result of his own actions because of the tolerance partner PVV. We have heard again today that it would not have been taken away if that cabinet had remained in place. Important Members of the European Parliament will remember this very well from positions they held in the European centre of power. Chancellor Merkel, the new President of the European Commission, Juncker, the reappointed President of the European Parliament, Schulz, and not least the President of the ECB, Draghi, lived on the assumption that the Dutch Prime Minister was Mr Cameron's best ally. That's probably what Cameron thought himself for a long time. Later, that perception didn't turn out to be correct. In the letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of 23 February 2015, I read on page 10 how to refer to him as "flexible partner choice'. Whoever is the true European Rutte in the Rutte II cabinet will remain an open question, but perhaps the Dutch Presidency will be a defining moment in 2016. The Rutte II cabinet approached the European Parliament elections on stocking feet in 2014. Caution over the Dutch ambition prevailed. Nevertheless, Minister Timmermans saw the beginning of a slight thaw, but that should not be interpreted positively and certainly not as pro-European. On 21 June 2013, he received a letter with an inventory of no less than 54 action points. Since then, the Dutch permanent representative has been allowed to bite his teeth. The main tone of this letter and the European focus is one of apology to the public who blames Brussels for everything that goes wrong in Brussels, or what goes wrong in the Netherlands. What exactly has become of that list? What is the timetable of realization? I do not find much of that in the letter from Minister Koenders. I may have read about it, but I would like to hear from this Minister about the state of play and I would like to get an overview of what we have achieved. Minister Timmermans spoke in many languages in the interior and abroad and did so well that he has now become the second man of the European Commission. It's worth a congratulations. The fact that things can be done differently in Europe shows his colleague Dijsselbloem. He has been crystal clear from the outset as president of the eurogroup, somewhat despite the cabinet. He contributed to tighter fiscal discipline in the Eurogroup, but he could not prevent Italy and France from being allowed some room under the Growth and Stability Pact in the final phase. The biggest risks on the markets have been pushed forward, which could explain that. Can we expect a re-election of Jeroen Dijsselbloem as president of the euro group? Rumor has it that Spain has made a claim to this position. Will the cabinet make itself strong for a continuation of the mandate of Jeroen Dijsselbloem? If not, why not? Then there is the letter from Minister Koenders, the swallow I was talking about. Can I call it a real political letter? A letter that also carefully paves the way to the Dutch Presidency in 2016. Realpolitik is already better than a course that puts our country out of play. Perhaps, under the pressure of events, real politics can still get an agenda that goes beyond that level. This was the case with the tragic events of the MH17 for a short period. The intention to strive for something greater, I would like to point out to this Minister when he talks about a 'European contract', but I would like to understand what the Minister himself has in mind today. Is it a country contract or is it a philosophical concept? But then philosophically with the hand brake on it, because he doesn't want to sound visionary. I would like to have an explanation of that. I say this also because this concept should contribute to regaining confidence, the central theme in the Minister's letter. It also occurred in the interesting speech of the Minister in Leiden, encouraged, I suspect, by the idea of the praesidium libertis. In it, the Minister spoke about the importance of citizens' confidence in his elected political representatives. That does not need to be explained, but what does it take? The political mores, the culture of the political ministers, must be credible and there must be clarity about the powers of the bodies in the structure of the European institutions and, above all, about their democratic nature. The debate must also be about the future. Especially in a representative democracy with complex structures that is the EU, because it is incredibly complicated to explain how it works and it is not going to be much simpler either, but it has to be explained... is consistency in what we say and what we do, especially by the political leaders, important. So visionary doesn't have to be the first improvement. Trustworthy thinking and acting, starts with the same story in Brussels as in The Hague; at most adapted for the public but not in terms of content. What about confidence in the institutions? They are far from optimum along the measuring bar of democracy. The criticism is justified, but it is difficult with 28 countries. More and more intergovernmental agreements make the complex. There is a need for improvement in this respect. We all agree on that, but the question is whether you are going ahead or backwards. I just had a little debate on that with Mr Elzinga. It needs to be better, more transparent and more effective, but it takes time and it requires political will, especially to move from intergovernmental to further integration. My group welcomes this move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u7	Are we at all able, in the circumstances, to demonstrate real capacity for action with 28 countries? Is it not necessary to seek this ability to act in a smaller context?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u8	In a smaller context, does Mr van der Linden mean a smaller Union, or a Union with different speeds? Well, that's been suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u9	For example, the Eurogroup is a smaller link. When we talk about a contract, it is the question whether a contract is in the form of a treaty or whether it is something in which shopping can still be done freely. That is the case now with opt-ins and opt-outs and whether or not to participate. Here in this Chamber, we must make it clear how we see the future of the EU and whether it is possible at all to move forward with 28 countries, but that is necessary to achieve this process of adjustment, that process of change and that ability to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u10	If I knew, I'd do something else. If you look at the history of the Union, you can see that it is being shocked. In the end, a solution will be found for an impossible dilemma. The original idea behind the euro group was also that all countries would participate in the euro. But they're not gonna do that for a while. I do not know whether there will ever be a moment when it is established that this will not happen again in a number of countries. I do not rule out the need for adjustments, treaty adjustments. In my view, the European Council will have to give power to the Commission and the EP. The European Commission is also developing. Mr Timmermans has also contributed to this. I am referring here to cluster formation and the way in which this is now being organised in order to achieve a powerful output. The EP has more accountability and control and has opted for greater transparency. The EP has strengthened its position. The appointment of Mr Juncker is an example of this. The EP has simply drawn this issue to its attention. The EP also responds to topical issues, such as tax rulings. A special committee has recently been set up for this purpose. The EP is also active in TTIP. Unlike Mr Elzinga, I trust that, for the time being, this matter, as well as the guidance for all the discussions, the motions that have already been tabled in the House of Representatives and the use of the cabinet, will remain with the European Parliament. I think that there is enough alertness in this regard. I also read the Minister's letter about the meeting in Riga. There are a number of topics addressed. The Juncker Commission has already had a motion of censure on its pants and survived. I'd say that's part of a mature democracy. The fact that it is submitted and then rejected actually strengthens the Commission's position, but there is still a great deal to be done. The question is whether it is helpful that, in addition to subsidiarity, the Minister's letter introduces a new benchmark "main issues." Mr De Vries also spoke about it. The Prime Minister talks about core tasks, but what does that add? It sounds a bit like a smaller government. I'd like to get an explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u11	Mr Backer said that the EP would be given more responsibility and grow more. Then how has that happened lately? I understand that the EP can only say yes or no to a proposal. The EP cannot take the initiative for a legislative proposal at all. The EP can only say yes or no. How does Mr Backer see that when he says that the responsibility of the EP is increasing and has already grown?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u12	If Mrs Faber follows the EP's deliberations, her group also has representatives in that Parliament, she will see that incredibly active acts are taking place there. In the current structure under the Treaty of Lisbon, there is indeed the possibility to ask the Commission to take initiative. The EP has no direct right of initiative, but political pressure is possible. The EP may invite the Commission to do something. I think that the Commission will think twice before rejecting such an invitation in view of the way in which the debates are being held. It doesn't work like this. There's another debate. The political groups have been put together differently, but the EP is nevertheless becoming a political body which is constantly evolving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u13	The fact that it operates differently than here is clear, but the fact remains that the Commission is always in the middle of it. An MEP cannot come forward directly with a proposal. It must always be done through the Commission. It can never be done directly, for example in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u14	That's right, but there are plenty of possibilities. I am thinking of the rapporteurship and the trilogue. You can see that the European Parliament is gradually gaining political significance and expanding its work, but that is not going to happen in a single day, not if some parties in that European Parliament really do not want to, like Mrs Faber's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u15	There is nothing wrong with the fact that some parties do not want to do so, because those are the parties that are still listening to the citizens. As we all know, only one third of the Dutch population is moderately positive about Europe and the European Union. That doesn't seem so bad to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u16	I have a surprise for Mrs Faber, because I am going to say something quite different. In the light of the above, it is staggering to read in the Acts of the House of Representatives that the Prime Minister no longer has the faith in the "ever closer Union." The Prime Minister went so far in the Lower House to claim that this treaty provision is "a dead sentence." I am curious about the translation into English. That communication should hold the British inboard in a discussion about a Brexit. Is it a dead end to having a greater ambition and striving for a ever closer Union? Hasn't that idea promoted developments? We now have a Pole, Tusk, as successor to a Belgian President of the European Council. That function didn't exist before. Before 1990 that was unthinkable, wasn't it? But now it's just a fact. It works, doesn't it? A debate with Russia, with a Pole as chairman, gives a completely different dimension to that debate, doesn't it? How can I reconcile that with the Prime Minister's position and the Minister's letter, in which I sense a more positive trend? I would like to see that explained by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u17	Does Mr Backer not agree with me that what has happened in monetary policy over the past few years is a closer union, with a transfer of sovereignty and the sharing of sovereignty? This process is indeed taking place in a number of sub-areas. I wouldn't distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u18	I'm not gonna stand back from that. A bit back in my text, I said: you do not keep a consistent story about Europe, if you do cooperate in the transfer of the sovereignty of the banking union, where something very important is happening, namely supervision of the system banks. That can hardly be spoken out loud. This ever closer union is already in progress. Then don't deny it's a dead letter. The EU budget is really not visionary. It was strange for my group to read in the report of the debate in the House of Representatives that the Minister dissuaded the Sjoerdsma motion. In the Sjoerdsma motion, D66 invites the Dutch Presidency to co-use the EU's Byzantine fiscal system seven years, little flexibility, insufficient accountability and to prepare a budget freeze. This incentive has proved necessary, as the Minister was very satisfied with the Multiannual Financial Framework for Education, Research and Innovation in his letter. Is that really something to be satisfied with? The whole distribution of expenditure and its control is something to be very dissatisfied with. The Dutch President will not be able to achieve this MFF in six months. Nor is it an appeal to the cabinet to prepare for a new Black Monday or something tragic. The idea is to work together to lay the foundations for a relay of successive presidencies, so that a new framework will be ready in 2017, at least well before 2020. That will not be possible in the end without an amendment to the treaty, I suspect: the v-word. We have long had the H-word in politics in the Netherlands, but in Europe that is the v-word. The H-word was about the mortgage interest deduction, as you know. It was like a house. If we go through the parallel: the "h" word also turned out to be overtaken by political reality and financial and social pressure, also from Europe. Why wouldn't the v-word do that? If I am with the letter v, isn't treaty the usual word for a country contract? Perhaps the European contract is not just a treaty after all, I ask the Minister. Is this not also the consequence of the deepening of EMU's E? When you read DNB's annual report, everything points out that this is the next step to a coherent economic policy. Then there will be the Four Presidents Report. I cannot foresee it, but I would not be surprised if that recommendation were included. A few words about the Eastern Partnership. I do not really feel comfortable doing that briefly, but we have to set priorities in our contribution. A great deal has already been said by my fellow Members. Good governance is an important objective of the Minister. This should also apply to the EU in this context. The conflict in Ukraine is dramatic and seems increasingly out of control. The collapse of the region's economy strengthens the decline in living standards in that area. The EU raises additional expectations, but will have to overcome immense financial and societal challenges in nation-building. A great deal has to be done, even in a state of law. I read the recognition of this in the integrated approach in the letter dated 33694, No. 6. Can the EU governance take on this role of the Eastern Partnership? Is the EU sufficiently equipped for this? How many FTEs are involved in this in the bureaucracy of Brussels, including the High Representative's staff? What concrete steps should be taken to strengthen this? Maybe I can do a thought exercise with you for the remainder of my speech. I read the Minister's speech to the students. He said if you look back 50 years later. I was thinking at this time of remembrance of Abel Herzberg, Letters to my grandson. Suppose in fifteen years' time my grandson asks me questions about this time as: Grandfather, did you know at the beginning of the twentieth century that China was making up for Europe economically? Was it already known that China would not only overtake Europe but also the United States as the largest economy with 7% growth every year, that it had already acquired large assets in Africa and that Eastern Europe has become Russian territory again? Did Europe not have defence? Was the strategy of the countries of the European Union then that each country would make individual agreements with dictators to prevent this? Were Google. Apple and Amazon also monopolised in the digital world back then? Didn't you know about climate change, about Earth exhaustion, about the energy transition? How come my parents couldn't find a job in those years and how am I gonna make a living when I grow up? In short, what have you been doing all these years? What can I say? I can, of course, refer to the Minister's letter, but I will not. I will try to write him a letter myself, in which I formulate a few answers. I would say that the political courage was lacking for a decade to strengthen the basis for this, that there was an enormous fascination for localization and regionalisation and that there was scepticism about Europe. I would say that the debate was not dared and that politicians in the middle were wrong to conclude that Europe was a bridge too far for the citizens of our country. Instead of reducing power after the transfer of powers to Brussels and to the municipalities, The Hague continued on the same footing. Instead of adjusting the House of Thorbecke, we continued with the old routine. This trend took place throughout Europe. Several political adventurers, such as Le Pen, Farage and Wilders, have been able to benefit from this. That's what I'd write to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u19	I do have a question for the grandfather in this story. Why is it not asked: Grandfather, why didn't you do something about Islamization? Why didn't you do anything about the woman's position? Why haven't you done anything to protect our freedoms? How can you tell your granddaughter if she is forced to walk with a headscarf?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u20	I've chosen a grandson, who I don't have, by the way. It could be a granddaughter. I think we have very good answers to these questions, other than the PVV. That's obvious. Those answers are not part of my European reflections. It is about what we must do with integration, with opportunities and with development and development. This is part of general political policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u21	Can I conclude from this that you do not even dare to discuss Islamization here during European reflections? It certainly has something to do with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u22	Well, that's not a question of dare. That's the nice thing about the pluralism of this Chamber. There are nine speakers. This isn't our priority. There are certainly problems with integration, diversity, delays in the Netherlands and religious differences. It is not the case that attention should not be paid to this, but I look very differently at the way it is done. That is why it is not part of my European reflections. I am not in favour of my party leader being applauded in Dresden and people saying: wir sind das Volk. I'm not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u23	I can conclude from this that it is not a priority for you to have equality for men and women, for gay and straight and for believers and unbelievers. That's not a priority. Then you can hit your couch, colleague of Boxtel, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u24	You can't draw that conclusion, Mrs Faber. It is not well founded and it is not justified. I have not given any reason to draw that conclusion, but if you wish to draw it, you may do so and then it is in the Acts. I am sure there will be another debate in which we can deepen this further. I don't agree with you. That's obvious. I'm gonna get back to the conversation. I would like to confess that there was a discussion in the group about whether it should be a granddaughter or a grandson. I kept it with a grandson after all. You didn't have to talk about treaty changes or future visions in those years, nor did you have to talk about the transfer of supervision of the banks. It should not be about budgetary discipline, which has actually been very successful in recent years. Nor should you talk about the fact that the open economy can no longer be separated from the market and, above all, I suspect that Mr Strik will say something about this: that the migratory flows from poor to rich can no longer be dealt with nationally. A real step forward, I would write, would take another ten years after the 2007 crisis. Of course, I hope I'm wrong. Then why is my group confident that another positive story will be accepted in ten years' time? The reason for this is the composition of the European Parliament. If Mrs Faber were right, the composition of the European Parliament would be completely different. In it, the citizen who would be so angry has no majority. It's still a small group. Public opinion has always been positive about European integration. There's been a lot of research. One is 30% and the other is different. That depends on the question. Yeah, there's a growing critical minority. I do not deny that there are just people who are very critical and against it. Two more speakers will come after me and I think they will put that into words. However, there has also been far too little debate about it. That's what's attributed to everything. There is a third positive position. When I listen to the speakers before me today, I do hear that in this Chamber, in a broad sense, there is a positive talk of European development. Finally, let me go back to the real letter; not the fictional one, but the one of the minister. His main route to recovery is trust. That is what is going to happen, and I should like to make a few comments about places through the deepening of the internal market. Yeah, that's important. The digital agenda is important. Good governance is important. It's gotta be quick, too. Certainly, the internal market is what the European ship drives economically. However, the market alone does not make people happy. Anyone who believes in the Rhineland model, as I do, must also be committed to culture, to deepening the rule of law, to the debate on values and, last but not least, to a social pact in further integration. It is interesting to see the report of the European Parliament, "Mapping the Cost of Non-Europe" of March 2014. What are the costs if you don't go any further, if you say at the thought of Krugman: we don't go any further, we go back? Apparently, they have just as excellent support for European dossiers as we do here in this house. The estimate in that report is that its always difficult estimates are that further integration would accelerate gross national product in Europe of about 6%. There are all kinds of nice and useful references.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u25	The quote I quoted from Krugman seems to have impressed me. I've heard it back a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u26	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u27	For the record, that quote did not relate to the integration of Europe. It concerned further liberalisation of markets. This concerns the European market, but also TTIP. In this case it was about TPP, the market that the Americans are trying to form together with Asian partners around the Pacific. In general terms, the quote was that the liberalisation of markets in the first place brings many cost benefits and economic benefits, and that they become less and less as liberalisation progresses. At the end, costs will increase at some point. So somewhere you have to ask yourself whether the increasing costs are still worth it. In the case of TTIP, in the most optimistic scenario, Mr De Vries also referred to the prospect of growth of 0.5% in ten years' time. That's in the allroptimist scenario. The question is whether it's worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u28	I am glad that Mr Elzinga has explained it, but we have not misunderstood each other. Liberalisation and/or deepening the internal market is, of course, always accompanied by lowering thresholds for each other's markets and entering each other's markets. The question then is how do you do that and what the values of it are. Another point is whether you believe in it. I think we have several starting points, the SP and D66. I'm gonna finish up. In addition to the realpolitik and the rising line or the positive side I see, there will have to be a more convincing story with ambition to really increase the potential for the future development of citizens in our country. The debate on this should take place. I believe that this is also the value of today's debate. It is a debate about Europe and its significance to make the lives of our children and grandchildren better and happier in a just and tolerant society in Europe, where borders are less important than connections. Europe as a prerequisite for freedom and development with a strong constitutional basis, as Mr De Graaf of the VVD Group was pleased to say. Although we are in the ALDE Group together, we sometimes take different positions here. In today's debate on Europe, I noticed that we have come closer to each other. What I have just said is the essence of our social liberal drive for our European thinking and the European project for peace and security and never again war. I sometimes miss that in the cabinet's attitude, despite the good points in the letter. I miss the fact that the project is about actually increasing interdependence and solidarity on this continent and that it aims to make the people in the multicoloured, multiform and creative country that we have to make resilient in the increasingly international environment and to increase their prospects for the future. That project needs convincing support and leadership. There should be a little more of that thought in the policy of this cabinet. My group invites the Minister to respond to this analysis, criticism and encouragement. My group looks forward with interest to the answers of the cabinet, which we may hear a little later than today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. These are the first general European reflections with this foreign minister, and at the same time the last for some of our colleagues: Mr Van den Linden, Mr De Vries, Mr De Graaf and Mr De Lange. Thanks to their rich experience in Europe, there is a great deal of knowledge and vision about European cooperation with them. To the survivors and the newcomers the expensive duty to maintain that knowledge. It's gonna be hard, but we're gonna do our best. The European Union is suffering from a shortage of ambassadors. Not in the literal sense of the word, but there is a shortage of advocates who tell the story of why European cooperation, which are fair about the choices made in Brussels or the capitals, and who show by the facts that the European interest is usually in line with the national interest. Although we know Minister Koenders mostly of his achievements at global level, in the UN and also as Minister for Development Cooperation, he has already proved himself to be a committed European in a short time. Maybe his global experience also contributes to his understanding and message that we in the EU need to be on the same page if we really want to have an impact on the world stage. That unit should be at the expense of its own national reservations or doubts. That's a refreshing sound in the Netherlands. For High Commissioner Mogherini, there would still be many successes if other Member States were to adopt this attitude. Unfortunately, this is not the case for the time being, and that is precisely one of the concerns of the current European foreign policy. Is it possible to achieve an effective common foreign policy while retaining the right of veto, do I ask the Minister, or are they excluding each other? What is the Minister's view on decision-making in this area and what does he consider desirable? In other areas too, national interests too often gain from the common interest. It seems too difficult for many politicians to make a choice for the long-term goals, let alone to make that choice. However, this is urgently needed if we are to ensure that the European Union is strong and supported by its inhabitants. Mr De Vries referred to the fact that Mr Brenninkmeijer made spicy statements yesterday about these interests. All countries, including the Netherlands, would like to get the most out of it and not want to get together. Does the Minister recognize this image? If so, how would that be reversed? With the motto 'joint interest' in front of me, I will go into the Eastern Partnership and the Neighbourhood Policy, economic cooperation on the world stage and the question of how we can make the European Union more legally and democratically, in other words, more of its citizens themselves. It cracks at the external borders of the European Union. At the eastern borders Putin literally and figuratively crosses the borders: the borders of the sovereignty of countries, but also those of the rule of law and international law. The sanctions imposed by the EU hurt him, but do not prevent him from continuing the violations. It is also a question of whether, with the very positive Minsk agreements in themselves, we have the solution, given the violations of the agreements. In July, the EU will decide whether or not to extend the sanctions. Putin knows exactly which Member States are responsible for a charm offensive. Through Greece, Cyprus, Hungary and Italy, he seeks to undermine the necessary unanimity for this decision. These efforts not only threaten a consistent line towards Russia, but also show how the division within the European Union in other areas undermines a decisive foreign policy. What further opportunities does the Minister see for the European Union to reduce stability in the eastern region and to achieve a long-term sustainable relationship with Russia? Fortunately, there is now broad consensus that we must at least get rid of our dependence on gas quickly. However, greater dependence on other countries, such as Saudi Arabia, brings us to the brink of rain. Does the Minister share this view? What about the implementation of the Eastern Partnership? Is progress being made and does this partnership offer sufficient opportunities to support this process? To what extent is Ukraine currently in a position to comply with the agreements? What does the Minister expect from the summit that will take place in Riga in May? The Eastern Partnership is part of the Neighbourhood Policy, the starting points and working methods of which are currently being revised. This is urgently needed, because developments in many neighbouring countries are not encouraging and require a thorough rethink. In Riga, the review is on the agenda. Yesterday, the Minister already talked about this with the southern countries in Barcelona. There is broad support for the idea that we should move towards greater differentiation in agreements and greater equality between partners. The latter also implies that we will have to adopt a more listening attitude: what do these countries want from us, what are their priorities? What does the Minister expect of these new agreements and what is the Dutch commitment? And what will be the response to the wishes these countries will express? Do these countries not want the EU to invest more in the underlying causes of their problems, such as the problems in the Middle East? I am thinking of Palestine, Syria and Iraq. Do we, as a Union, have an adequate response to this? What exactly does the EU do about these issues, apart from sending a special envoy? The agreement reached with Iran is mainly based on the United States. Is the European Union prepared to step up its efforts, partly for the sake of neighbouring countries, to put an end to instability, terror and violence in this region? If so, what possibilities does the Minister see in this respect? Another new criterion in the neighbourhood policy is greater flexibility. No longer work on the basis of long-term budgets or evaluations, but can act or invest faster. For this purpose, Member States should transfer more powers and trust to the EEAS and Commissioner Hahn. How does the Netherlands feel about this? Mogherini wants to mobilise and engage more people, especially to ensure that the Neighbourhood Policy lands deeper in society. This seems to our group to be a very important objective, but what exactly is the Netherlands doing? We don't see much of that yet. Let me make a comment on equivalence. The Neighbourhood Policy is based on conditions and wishes of both parties. For the EU, one of these conditions is fundamental rights. I am pleased to read that the Minister maintains that condition for all countries. Is the government prepared to make an explicit commitment to the rights of migrants in these countries? It is precisely because of the agreements on border controls with Europe that they are forced to find protection there or to build up a life. Often even the most basic rights do not apply to them. This is still far too little of the EU's concern, and it also bears co-responsibility for this. Does the Minister share my group's view that we should support the countries of the region and our external borders in receiving refugees and that we should make more ambitious and enforceable agreements at EU level on the resettlement of the most vulnerable refugees in the region? Is the Minister prepared to make this a priority during the Dutch Presidency? I missed this element in the letters on the Presidency and in the State of the Union. Although it seems a drop in the ocean, countries like Lebanon and Jordan experience it as mental support when Europe takes over some of the refugees. Germany does this with 30,000 refugees, the Netherlands with 250. How does the Minister feel about that? Can the Minister also inform us about the food supply for Syrian refugees in Lebanon and Jordan? Over the past six months, the World Food Programme has been able to provide only short-term food supply projects with art and flying skills. If it really dries, there's an acute crisis. In addition, human rights do not only concern political or classical freedoms. The NGOs have commented on the neighbourhood policy that agreements on free trade and investment threaten the social and economic rights of residents. According to NGOs, liberalisation of the economy, fueled by cooperation with the Union, has led to increased unemployment, poverty and exclusion. I am thinking of small farmers and other food producers who are succumbing to fierce competition from the foreign market. Does the Minister agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that the emphasis should be on sustainable development in these countries? If so, how do we do that? My group also believes that investment in education in neighbouring countries is crucial. Education is the basis for development and citizenship. Many neighbouring countries can use support. In Lebanon, a generation of refugee children has grown up who have been deprived of education for many years. This is a disastrous development. The previous comments on the economic consequences bring me to the negotiations on TTIP, which were also central to the debate on the European Union in the House of Representatives. Here too, there is a great fear that the free trade agreement will lead to a deterioration of European standards for work or the environment, but also of the rule of law. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the principle of impartial dispute resolution and the right to privacy. According to the government, it sets European standards as a strong demand in the negotiations with the US. My group assumes that these are tough conditions for the government. However, Minister Ploumen's public statements immediately led to criticism by the main negotiator of the European Union. According to him, the negotiations and the mandate were not properly explained. What's true now? Can the Minister once again make it clear that European standards in the areas of food, labour, environment and animal welfare are not affected in any way, that the arbitration system does not undermine the national legal system, that the arbitration system is transparent and independent and that it is based on equality or poverty, and that changing policies in a Member State is not a reason for a company to sue this country? If European standards remain European and American standards, can you reach an agreement at all? I find that difficult to imagine. If so, is there a level playing field or can products produced at a cheaper rate reach the European market? What about the impact of the agreement on developing countries? Minister Ploumen is currently investigating this. Shouldn't we have an idea of the consequences before we can agree? Finally, TTIP covers 50% of world GDP and a third of world trade. Such bilateral agreements already weaken the position of developing countries, who have only to swallow the conditions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u30	I am not entirely consistent in my speech, because I just said that I would not want to discuss TTIP here because the order is first the European Parliament. But I can't help asking one question about this. The debate on TTIP always shows that policy changes are not possible, but we now know in the Netherlands, as in most of the Member States of the European Union, the principle of the legitimate act of government. You can change policies, but that doesn't rule out a liability for damages. You've got plan damage. Companies that had been able to rely on a certain consistent policy may claim damage. In itself, that principle does not change when you contract internationally. Do we agree that this principle could also apply in itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u31	Of course, I do not rule that out, but only the argument of policy change, that companies should have assumed that the policy would remain unchanged, is not enough to actually charge a state. Countries should retain the opportunity to change their policies. If that actually results in damage, I think it's something else. This could also be brought before national courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u32	That's exactly what I'm talking about. Of course, that freedom of policy and that space must be there if it is to be within treaty rules. That is what the discussion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u33	Yes, but we hear that arbitration systems like they do in the U.S. often lead to huge damages claims that we want to avoid. Of course, a tortious act is a tortious act. We do not want to interfere with that either, but we do not want it to be too easy to make millions of claims. Nor do we want countries to be afraid of making policy changes that are deemed desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u34	For the Acts, I was talking about a legitimate act, not an unlawful act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u35	Yeah, yeah, tortious act. The government has also indicated that national parliaments should ratify the Treaty. However, the European Commission takes a different view. How's it going now? Are the other Member States also in favour of ratification by their parliaments? Does the Minister at all agree that the treaty will be submitted to both chambers for approval before the government agrees to it in Brussels? In short, much more information is needed on the effects and many conditions will still have to be accepted before the treaty becomes a reality. I also do not believe that the Treaty is a fact before a new President has been elected in the United States, as Mr De Vries pointed out; I do not think that is necessary at all. And that's necessary, because once you give away standards, you don't just get them back. Time is more important than being able to make a move here for a certain moment. In any case, we are sticking to the firm positions it has put forward so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u36	I would like to ask Mrs Strik two more questions. The first question is this. Let us approach it from another side. What would it mean in the long term for the economies of Europe and the United States if we did not close TTIP? At the moment, we are negotiating for a reason. Without such a treaty, where we can at least maintain a number of standards, world trade could go all out. The BRIC countries would love it if that treaty did not come into being, because it would allow you to trade almost without standards in the world. My second question is this. We have endured with many developing countries. Other countries also have them. Almost all of these treaties contain arbitration clauses. If they hadn't been there, few companies would have invested money in those countries. So the phenomenon of arbitration clauses is not new. It's just, you have to do it the right way. No treaty with the United States could mean that we could also mean less for developing countries and with developing countries we have good experience with these arbitration clauses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u37	Nor do we say stop the negotiations. We also see the potential benefits of such a treaty, but we want to ensure that our values and standards are maintained. A multilateral treaty would be even better. Then the developing countries will also be at the table and they will also be able to agree on their terms. If the great powers agree, they can only swallow it. That's not always good either. Moreover, opinions differ very widely on the benefits, such as an increase in the number of jobs. We don't know anything about that yet. There are also other opportunities to significantly increase the number of jobs in Europe, for example through the circular economy. It is a pity that the European Commission has withdrawn that plan. We hope to see a more ambitious plan in the very near future. European standards are not always optimal. That's the other side. Think of the agreements on CO reduction, renewable energy and energy saving. Hopefully, these agreements will have to become more ambitious as a result of the global climate objectives agreed in Paris. But apart from that, the EU can and must be the frontrunner in this. What specific ambitions does the government have for the Dutch Presidency in this area? Is the Minister prepared to stand up in the EU for more ambitious and binding agreements on renewable energy and energy savings? We're still missing them. We want to see standards in world trade, preferably through multilateral treaties, because they form the basis of our values. This applies not only to the environment, food, animal welfare and labour, but also to the rule of law. That is why this is always an important part of the neighbourhood policy and other foreign policies. However, in order to be credible, European citizens will have to be able to count on protection by a rule of law throughout the EU. Unfortunately, that is far from self-evident. I am pleased that the government is looking to ensure that Member States will actually address each other in the Council on shortcomings in the rule of law, but I am also sceptical about that. The Council does not have a good track record in this respect, as Member States are afraid to be addressed themselves or to lose support for proposals. How will the government continue to implement the first dialogue that will take place in the Council under the Presidency? The Minister is not opposed to more enforceable mechanisms, I read, but would like to gain experience with the dialogue first. That could go hand in hand. Sanctions can also serve as a stick behind the door for effective dialogue. Europeans are entitled to less non-committalism towards their own governments when it comes to the rule of law. For our group, the European Union is not an end in itself, but it is necessary to achieve many of our objectives. Less and less problems can be solved within national borders. More and more, we need cooperation to ensure that we all deal with this earth and peacefully. That is a simple message, which should be able to convince, but people do not hear much about it. Rather, the mutual distrust between Northern and Southern Europe and between Western and Eastern Europe is being fed. If governments do not already show solidarity, for example in the area of finance or asylum, and they do not trust each other, what can citizens expect? The mistrust of the EU and other Member States is already being expressed by their Heads of Government. If the EU does not address the problems of its citizens, such as unemployment, increasing exclusion or poverty, how can citizens be expected to be involved? The government recognises the crisis of confidence in the EU, but what concrete measures is it going to take to address this? As far as we are concerned, this requires a fundamental change in policy, for example through greater solidarity between countries and greater attention to sustainability and social policy, but also through greater transparency about political choices and greater participation in them. In this way, Europeans can really determine what direction we are going with the Union. For example, it is not a natural law that dominates market thinking in the Union. No, that's a political choice. At present, only 40% of Europeans feel heard in the EU. That percentage seems even optimistic to me. The complex constructions, particularly in the financial and economic field, are taking into account the agreements concluded outside the EU, such as the ESM, the relationship between the Eurogroup and other EU countries, the tension between the European Semester and the budgetary law of national parliaments, all of which have not made it easier for citizens and their representatives to exercise influence. Does the Minister consider instruments outside the two Union Treaties to be desirable and is he prepared to help prevent and reduce such structures? For now, at least my group wants a much stronger democratic embezzlement of the decisions. This means a stronger position for the European Parliament, for example in economic and monetary union, in the EU's financial economic policy and in foreign policy. But it also means, of course, more influence and control by national parliaments in the decision-making process in the Council. As a national parliament, we hope to receive support during the Dutch Presidency for more effective procedures at European level, such as the yellow card and also the green card. But we also want parliaments to learn from each other how to optimise their influence on government positions in Brussels. We have recently heard experts on this matter in the Chamber. Some joint conclusions emerged: the early stage of consultation of the Commission has already had an impact on the White and Green Papers and the focus by being selective, but to keep a consistent focus on the selected dossiers. For that very reason, it is crucial that the negotiations in the Council and with Parliament should be as transparent as possible for national parliaments. Without information on what is happening, democratic control is a dead letter. We had access to the Council data file a few years ago, but it is difficult for the Chambers to follow the negotiations on the selected files from this dense forest of documents. It's a big step forward, but it can be optimized. Does the Minister recognise its importance and is he prepared to support Parliament in unlocking this information? However, greater transparency is also important for citizens themselves, so that they can follow the discussions in Brussels and express their views to Parliament. It is also important for civil society organisations and experts, so that they can draw parliamentarians' attention to certain developments and bottlenecks in the negotiations. The Court of Justice, a year and a half ago in the Access Info Europe judgment, which requires the principle of democratic legitimacy to ensure transparency and openness of information, when the Council acts as legislator. Mr Elzinga mentioned that as well. For this reason, the Council should grant the public the widest possible access to documents. According to the Court, the creed should be public, unless. This principle also applies to the identity of the proposers of the various proposals. The government says it is in favour of further broadening the public access regime for EU documents. So we should be able to find each other in this fight. Last year the government proposed an amendment of the Rules of Procedure to the Court's judgment. What's the progress on this? There would also be an evaluation of the decision to refer to the names of the Member States only if deemed appropriate. The Council can therefore decide for itself whether the positions of the Member States will be known. Has that evaluation taken place yet? If so, what did this result in? How often and when is it found to be "appropriate" to mention the names of Member States? What specific proposals does the government have to raise the issue of transparency during the Presidency? This could well be done in conjunction with Parliament. Finally. Between the lines, including in contributions from others, the upcoming Dutch Presidency plays an important role through all the themes. The Minister keeps saying that we should not exaggerate the Presidency's influence. That is true, but it offers great opportunities to bring specific dossiers and wishes more explicitly to the attention of the agenda setting and to make progress on these issues. As far as our group is concerned, the choice should be sustainability, for example the Energy Union and the implementation of the Paris climate agreements, as well as tackling social inequality, such as the tax avoidance of large companies and a proactive and humanitarian refugee policy. Let us also use the Presidency to reduce the gap between the Member States, by working for greater trust and solidarity among ourselves. Finally, the Presidency is an excellent opportunity to bring the European Union closer to the people of our own country. I began my speech by commending the pro-European attitude of this minister in Brussels. May I plead with him that he should also adopt this attitude in The Hague and all other places of the Netherlands? If anything helps the EU, it is an inspirational story about what drives us to work together in Europe. For support, communication is everything. We politicians can make or break the EU. As far as we're concerned, it's gonna be the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. Europe rattles along the edges. Greece is unable to pay off its debts, and that is true, although to a lesser extent, for other weak Euro countries as well. The visa-free regime agreed by the EU with Ukraine for this year has been postponed or cancelled without further notice, despite all the fine promises made by Western politicians at Maidan. The collapsed economy, civil war, Putin's hot breath and a million war refugees seem to have made cooperation a little less attractive. No wonder, because the refugee problem demands all the attention at its own gates. Last year, 600,000 asylum seekers came to the EU Member States. That is just the beginning of what awaits us, so we all know. Hunger, climate problems and geopolitical conflicts mean that the number of refugees is likely to become out of control at a rapid rate, partly because of the short-term thinking that dominates not only European politics but also Dutch politics. We know that conflicts are increasingly caused by food scarcity, resulting from climate and water problems. NATO warns of "water wars" and researchers at Columbia University point out that the Syrian civil war, one of the causes of the current flow of refugees, is actually a climate war. The United Nations warn against water scarcity of crops failing, ecosystems collapsing and violent conflicts over water resources increasing. Already 750 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. According to the UN, by 2025, nearly two billion people will live in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity and two thirds of the world's population will suffer from water shortages. It hardly seems to affect the EU. Hunger seems to be a "far-from-our-board" problem, but is getting closer soon. Scientists expect tens of millions of climate refugees to come to Europe by 2020 because of lack of water and food in their own region. Unlike our full supermarkets, our food supply is in a very precarious balance. In 2050, according to the UN agricultural organisation, we need 60% more food to feed the growing world population. At the same time, that food is going to be considerably more expensive than we are now used to. With our way of life, we've derailed a natural cycle. The European agricultural policy is the main reason for this. According to the Dutch government, 30% of the biodiversity loss is caused by livestock farming, and we know that the same livestock farming produces 40% more greenhouse gases than all traffic and transport combined. Nevertheless, the EU is committed to more livestock farming, more exports of meat, dairy and eggs, and bio-industrial systems such as megasthals and battery cages, even if they are prohibited in its own country and even when Dutch farmers are competed with them: seven farms a day are now stopping in the Netherlands. But apart from raffling the edges of Europe and rattling at the gates of Europe by increasingly exploited refugees by human traffickers, there is a bigger, more substantial problem that we have to face. One people, one empire, one coin is a long-cherished dream that has never been fulfilled. Julius Caesar, Charlemagne, Charlemagne the Fifth, Napoleon and Hitler all dreamt of forging Europe's one empire from the ethnic, geographical, cultural and linguistic patchwork formed by dozens of European countries which can be objectively identified as having significant differences in economic development and resilience. Now a dream that did not come true before does not necessarily have to be regarded as impossible, but the introduction of a single currency as the greatest monetary experiment in history has proved to be a very reckless step, the consequences of which are still unheard of. After having had a fairly stable guilder for 700 years, the Netherlands, together with other European countries, for reasons of political opportunism, has plunged itself into a very uncertain adventure of a common currency with countries with which we have something very limited in common. Is that talking afterwards? Or would it have been foreseeable? We should have known. The EU is a maze without emergency exits, the euro is a currency you can't get rid of once you have introduced it. This is briefly what citizens in the Netherlands and other European countries are told. Let us live with it, we must make the best of it, and now that less Europe is not possible, we must opt for more Europe. It is said that at the edge of the abyss the only safe step is a step backwards, at most a step backwards, but the EU formic parties do not want to know about it. André Szász, former director of De Nederlandsche Bank and in charge of international policy, was already very concerned in the 1990s. More than that, he saw with his eyes how the monetary union, which he helped to prepare, has become a game of political compromises. After the introduction of the euro, Szász said: "We never meant it that way." He stressed that political motives and not economic considerations were decisive in the merger of coins in Europe. There is absolutely no need for a single currency for monetary union. Why the euro, with all the costs of exchanging coins? Szász is very clear about this to this day: "To make it clear that there is no going back. The euro has a symbolic meaning. If you link the exchange rates unbreakably and make the coins completely freely exchangeable, then that implies a common monetary policy and then you can in principle have different currencies." In Greece, they think it's homesick. But with that common currency, we are giving up the right of self-determination over our money without noticeable unrest. Sneakingly, there is a fate community in Europe whose consequences are yet to be seen. But it doesn't want to come to a public debate about this silent revolution. Those are not my words, as the former director of the Nederlandsche Bank said in 1998 and his words are becoming more and more true. Heads of Government are still pretending to bleed, while it is more than clear that a single currency is an unsustainable one for all Member States. May I quote from the report that NRC recorded in 1998 from the meeting in the Trêveszaal of 16 May 1990: "A few ministers were sitting at the table of the Trêveszaal at the Binnenhof. They had just heard from the President of De Nederlandsche Bank about the introduction of the euro. The slow pace of the German Chancellor and the French President gave rise to great displeasure. If the "political authorities" were aware of what they were doing, Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers repeatedly asked. "They have no idea! I don't know!" said Minister for Economic Affairs Koos Andriessen at the end." André Szász, who was also at the table as director of De Nederlandsche Bank, I remember it well. "Everyone was surprised. They seemed to realize for the first time what kind of speed the business had. They were shocked," said Szász ten years later. Helmut Kohl received an honorary doctorate from the Catholic University of Leuven for his EU propaganda in February 1996. In his thank-you speech, he said: "Entweer der euro, oder Krieg." So we could choose between the euro or another war. Angela Merkel exclaimed in the same style: "Screeters of the euro, Dann shines Europe." If the euro fails, Europe will fail. As early as 1970, Luxembourg's former Prime Minister Pierre Werner came up with the idea of a European single currency, which would promote European unity and the economy. One of the main supporters of that euro was Chancellor Helmut Kohl at the time. From that time on, the euro became a kind of sacred, religious dogma. If you didn't believe in it, you'd be a heretic who worked on the downfall of Europe. If the Netherlands did not accept the euro, our country would fall back to the level of a developing country. Dan went to us "the lights out," said our then Minister of Economic Affairs Laurens Jan Brinkhorst. He did not say anything about other small countries that rejected the euro, such as Denmark and the United Kingdom, which, however, had nothing to do with it and had nothing to do with it. We can talk today about the European state of affairs, but more and more our parliament is demolishing into the provincial states of Europe. Caroline de Gruyter wrote last weekend in NRC about former NATO Secretary General Willy Claes, who warned that Europe should not build a European army if there is no common European foreign policy. Claes drew a parallel with the euro. When it came, many said: "You cannot share a currency with all of them without keeping the economies of the participating countries in line. Otherwise one will fly off the bend, putting all of them at risk." So you would need a European economic government, which can intervene if necessary in the event of deficits at national level. And that cannot be combined with sovereignty. So first the euro and then the leverage of a European economic government. Is European banking supervision not working properly? Then the next step is a centralised banking policy with a European deposit guarantee scheme that cannot be shy of the guarantees we used to in the Netherlands. First a European army and then the forced introduction of a European foreign policy, step by step towards a complete transfer of our sovereignty and autonomy, without even amending the Constitution, without having had a serious debate in Parliament. In the meantime, we are not in favour of setting up a state committee on the future of the Upper House. Who cares, we lift ourselves up at an ever faster pace as a country! And Europe is not the big lifeboat, but a wicker boat on an increasingly rough sea, wrote chief opinion of the Volkskrant Arnout Brouwers in a very readable article last Saturday. Solutions to the unprecedented external challenges facing EU countries are not directly ahead. Politicians, media and citizens therefore prefer to focus massively on the management of our decline. How do we divide the smaller and smaller cake, Brouwers wonders. We are only trying to make the best of it, although we see that the failed experiment of one people, one empire, one currency has caused us irreversible problems. Professor Dani Rodrik described the crisis in NRC last week as much more complex than the "little, spilly southerners against the noisy, thrifty northerners" as a populist stereotype that is also widely used in the Netherlands. Rodrik speaks in his recently published book The Globalisation Paradox about the political vibrations of the global economy. Economic globalisation, political democracy and the nation state are incompatible. In his view, at most two of these three elements can go hand in hand. Democracy is compatible with national sovereignty only if we limit globalisation. And if we want to preserve the nation state in addition to globalisation, we will have to abandon democracy according to Rodrik. We see that becoming true in the euro area. Economic and political problems are caused by the fact that financial integration is more advanced than political ones. In order to save democracy, either more political integration is needed or less economic cooperation is needed. And that's exactly what Europe doesn't make choices about. That makes the current Europe's dream is an EU summit with unpredictable consequences. With free trade agreements such as TTIP, Brussels is putting further pressure on democracy within the EU. Democracy in Europe is being undermined as a result of obligations arising from the conclusion of free trade agreements. The Animal Party wonders whether it is really the greatest problem of our generation that the already inconspicuous world free trade still has a few obstacles. We do not think that is the case. We believe that the major problems facing our generation are in terms of keeping the earth alive, of taking control of climate change, because global warming poses major risks, not least for those in developing countries who have not caused this climate change. The disturbing loss of biodiversity has still not stopped our critical natural capital. All this is related to the aggressive trade policy at the European Commission's intercession. The EU's objective is economic growth above all else. So this translates into an aggressive trade policy, which is determined by an unelected European Commission, where business has a far too thick a finger. Anyone who wants to do something for the environment on behalf of the citizen will get the lid on, because Brussels is not allowed to do that. And soon, thanks to TTIP, the mantra "that's not allowed from Brussels" becomes "that's not allowed from Washington." "Complying with internationally agreed climate targets should only work if it is not a barrier to trade. With regard to critical citizens, the cabinet always claims that Europe should only interfere in matters where it really has to interfere, but that is these matters. This cannot be determined by the business community, which has significantly influenced the environmental agreements that exist, which means that a European Member State that wants to do something for the environment must take into account the interests of business. We see it with the continuing bee mortality. The House of Representatives has said that dangerous agricultural poisons must be removed from the market, whereas, according to European rules, this can only be done if businesses do not suffer too much from it. It doesn't go well together. We have to stop that road. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, we can tell Europe that further negotiations on TTIP are not necessary. And those who would still like to look at the results of this, we would like to ask for clear conditions, as we have seen with the Labour Party in the Lower House and to a slightly lesser extent with the Labour Party in the Upper Chamber. D66 is also trying to move in this direction: if these agreements are at the expense of democracy, of our policy freedom to do things for nature, the environment and animal welfare, and for example for protecting our own agriculture, they say "no'. I would like to hear from the Minister what the position of the Cabinet is with regard to TTIP following the changed attitude of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u39	Madam President. Since this is the last policy debate I will be taking part in, undoubtedly to the relief of some, I have thought about how I intend to give substance to my contribution this time. I've decided to do that in the form of an indictment. This charge will be mainly about the monetary and economic achievements of Europe, the European Commission and the ECB, and about the ever-growing democratic deficit that no one can escape. Because the Dutch Government, on the Brussels leash, has been pursuing a counterproductive austerity policy for many years now, our own country is also severely affected and unemployed people, simple taxpayers, savers, and current and future pensioners, pay the price of this sad policy. That is more than enough to fill my speaking time. Let me start by apologizing. Much of what I have to say will be about banks and bankers, about the financial sector in short. Now I'm just a simple physicist, and it goes without saying that I can't stand in the shadow of the undisputed top talent that our financial institutions are populated with. Honesty simply commands that the Nobel Prize winners in my own field are intellectual dwarfs, compared to the average banker who does his blessed work on an inimitable level for all of us. Their thorough knowledge of things, their social empathy, and their annual proven altruism are a shining example for all of us. Last week I looked full of idolatry at Rik van Slingelandt, chairman of ABN AMRO's Supervisory Board. This intellectual high-flyer explained to the people how the top talents assigned to our bank by his imperfection were more than worth their top salaries and top bonuses. How could I ever doubt this superb personnel policy? Under the guidance of Gerrit Zalm, who has further strengthened his incomparable gifts in the field of banking in the superior school of Dick Scheringa, where by the way many VVD-top talents have been trained, this visionary pay philosophy is fortunately widely conveyed. It was especially the kinnes of a few envious representatives of the people who constantly uttered the detestable word "state bank" which finally convinced me that it is a privilege to contribute to the billions that the Dutch taxpayer pays to this exemplary organization. If today I have a reluctant word of criticism of the financial sector, it is from an attitude of the deepest respect for these vital pillars of our society. Humility is my attitude to life. The first problem I would like to raise is that of the euro. Two years ago it was an exception to express doubts about the sustainability of the euro, but today you must look very hard to find serious economists who still believe that the single currency has a future in its present form. Only among the political elite is the mantra of the euro, which would be a binder rather than a spruce, still sung, although the tone is increasingly characterized as "falsetto." In any case, all the debates in recent years have led to a clear conclusion. On the one hand, without a political union in Europe, the euro project is doomed to failure. On the other hand, a political union can only be achieved by increasing transfers of national powers to an undemocratic Europe, resulting in a financial transfer union involving Northern Europe for decades to come subsidising southern Europe. Because the resistance to political union is enormous, and there are excellent alternatives to the single currency called the euro, an alternative to that currency will eventually be inevitable. I'm going to back this up. Let us begin with the observation that the socio-economic situation in the euro area has deteriorated significantly over the last few years. The euro is too cheap for northern Europe and too expensive for southern Europe, and the "one size fits all" policy therefore has disastrous consequences. In southern Europe, youth unemployment has risen to over 50%. Young people with some training leave their country, probably to never return. What future does a nation still have that has nothing to offer its youth? Is it strange that in many countries Eurocritical parties do not always show and score their overly nuanced sounds? The sovereign debt of several southern European countries is enormous and, in fact, incorruptible in many decades. Greece is, of course, the standard example, but with several other countries it is not much better. The European elite refuses to face the real situation. Instead, Greece is in fact opting for an undercurate position. When the Greeks threatened to elect their own new government as sovereign countries, the Junckers, the Lagardes, the Schulzen, the Dijsselflowers of this world and many others lined up to warn the Greeks for the umpteenth time about the consequences of what was basically their own free national choice. The double hat of Dijsselbloem, which still wrongly believes that the presidency of the eurogroup can be combined with its finance ministership, came back into the spotlight in an embarrassing way. And now that the Greeks have made their own choice and are trying to get out of the ukazes of the financial choke institutions, the matter goes from evil to worse. The atmosphere in Europe is to cut. The lazy, cheating, rebellious and incompetent Greeks have the courage to ask Germany for 280 billion in reparations. Blackmail by the European elite has become a normal policy instrument. The "sunde Volksempfinden," including life-threatening tendencies, is back. Anyone who believes that such a Europe has a common political future should have a long stay in a soothing environment with walls in soft pastel shades. Everyone understands that companies can go bankrupt. Insufficient prospects for the future and over-indebtedness are the obvious reasons. Anyone could also understand that it is no different for countries, in fact for the same reasons. History, if it wishes, provides all the examples that can convince a human being. The solutions? Debt cancellation and some form of devaluation of the national currency. There are no other flavors, no cheaper flavors. Nevertheless, our European elite is continuing to deposit more and more money into a bottomless pit or, to stay within the limits of my field: a black hole by using all kinds of emergency funds guaranteed by the taxpayer and by giving the ECB virtually the free hand in a disastrous monetary policy, while a possible prospect of a rational solution is becoming increasingly out of the picture. It is also interesting to see who is at risk when it comes to government documents from bankrupt or almost bankrupt southern European countries. A number of years ago it was mainly European banks and pension funds who were up to their ears in this kind of dubious investment. In recent years, banks have successfully divested these toxic investments and deposited the risks with the European taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u40	Mr De Lange has largely based his story on the difference between the European elite and the rest. Does the First Chamber belong to that elite?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u41	Given a lot of the views I have heard in today's debate, I am inclined to respond positively to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u42	So you speak to yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u43	I speak to the First Chamber as a whole. That is clear, of course. That's obvious. I think there are very serious problems in Europe. I'm trying to name them. I realize that's not what everyone likes to hear. Nevertheless, it is important that this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u44	My question follows on from Mr Van der Linden's. I've been thinking about who that elite is for a while now. Mr De Lange had a whole speech on Minister Dijsselbloem. I think he was Vice-President of the Labour Party for ten years. He's become a minister. We have a functioning democracy. We have Secretary Koenders here. He could be sent away. When, according to Mr. De Lange, do you belong to the elite? In my opinion, he is talking about an elite who is no longer politically accountable. At least that's what I understand: a bit of an old Greek elite, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u45	That is indeed the case. Indeed, we are dealing with organisations in which people who are not sufficiently subject to democratic control function. I am thinking of the European Commission. That's an example. The European Central Bank is also an example. The policy of these organisations is not just a matter of attractions which are so beneficial to ordinary citizens. That kind of institution, without sufficient control, I would like to count as the elite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u46	Is the President of the Dutch Bank also a member of the elite?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u47	The Dutch Bank is expected to play an independent role, independent of politics. However, the Netherlands Bank is becoming an organization with less and less powers, because they are transferred to the ECB. So the role that the Dutch Bank has to play in the whole of things has declined considerably in recent years. That doesn't help, of course. I shall continue my speech. The very weak position of all kinds of banks in southern Europe, which had invested endlessly in all kinds of bubbles, has also been considerably cleared up by the introduction of a banking union in which the taxpayer is once again being played down, thanks to the ECB and its political slippers. When has our country's parliament been able to express its opinion on this transfer of powers to an undemocratic body? The Dutch Parliament once approved a politically independent ECB. Nevertheless, the political decision-making that is constantly taking place within the ECB is never accepted, unacceptable and even contrary to its own ECB mandate. Speaking of the ECB of Mario Draghi, if there is one organisation in Europe that is causing social and economic havoc, then here we are at the right place. The European elite, here we go again, is not interested in the increasingly deteriorating socio-economic fate of European citizens, but above all afraid of their own loss of face. The final failure of the euro project launched with so much swelling language would be about the pinnacle of loss of face. It is no wonder that Draghi's behaviour, which suggests that the euro should be maintained at all costs, has been founded in these circles. The consequences of this desperation are crystal clear for anyone who even has a minimum sense of reality. I repeat once more: unemployed people, simple taxpayers, savers and current and future pensioners pay the price. Unemployment occurs among all kinds of groups of the population, especially among older people, young people, immigrants and people with disabilities. You're older than 45, by the way. The ECB's interest rate policy allows a pension fund to make a 24% return and yet the coverage rate to decrease. Can the madness of ECB policy be more clearly demonstrated? What to do before the shore turns the ship? It might be good to have some critical opinions from leading institutions and economists reviewed. It is not entirely coincidental that these opinions come from the German side. Contrary to what we see in our own country or, rather, we do not want to see, namely a substantive discussion on the monetary situation in Europe about the consequences of current policies and on possible solutions, Germany is not being complacent, but a wide-ranging debate is taking place in the media. A number of elements of this discussion must not be missed here today in the Dutch parliament, although I do not have the illusion that this will go beyond a modest place in the Acts. Nevertheless, here we go. In March last year, the Deutsche Bundesbank issued a message saying goodbye to the highly-voted plans in which the EU is so keen to grow. The Bundesbank considers that the prospect of greater integration in Europe is unrealistic and that the prospect of a political and fiscal union cannot be achieved. The Bundesbank also states that it would be better to end illegal transfers from one country to another, instead of losing itself in Europe in hopes of a political unity in Europe: back to the 'no bail-out' clause of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty. There is not a word of French in that, and it is probably better for responsible monetary positions. The groundbreaking contributions to the debate by Hans-Werner Sinn, President of the IFO Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung, should also be mentioned. As a former advisor to the Merkel administration, he has the right to speak. Besides people like Markus Kerber, Hans-Olaf Henkel, Michael Vogelsang, Wolfgang Streeck and Bernd Lucke, he is not only highly sceptical about the current ECB policy but also suggests solutions. It is worth repeating the history of the euro. The Eurodrama now has seven companies. It all started with Article 125 of the Maastricht Treaty, explicitly excluding financial support from one sovereign state to another. How different is the present European reality. Only after the 2008-2009 crisis did things really go wrong. To help countries that were virtually bankrupt, their central banks of the ECB were given the green light to grant virtually unlimited loans in a way that mainly reminded them of self-service. The economic bells had begun. In May 2010, the third company started buying up asset-backed government papers from southern European countries. The fourth company in the drama was the rigging up of all kinds of rescue funds, such as the EFSF and the ESM. Until the end of 2013, appropriations amounting to EUR 1,058 billion have been disbursed to crisis countries. Of this, only 393 billion were committed by parliaments, while the remaining 665 billion was granted without any democratic control by the ECB administration, in which the financially stronger countries are a minority. The fifth company took place in the summer of 2012 with the now notorious statement of Draghi: whatever it takes... The virtually unlimited purchase by the ECB of no longer covered and therefore worthless government documents officially began from 9 March this year, despite the fact that a salomon judgment in a case brought by the Karlsruhe court on its legality is still to be settled by the European Court of Justice. The question arises as to whether it could be worse, but this is indeed possible entirely in the ECB's tradition. At the beginning of 2014, the first phase of the Banking Union was established, whereby risks were finally dumped on the taxpayer in a way that is gradually known, despite all the fine words on the contrary. What about the seventh company? The players are still on stage and the souffleur is still whispering to them the appropriate lyrics, but the goal is Eurobonds, which have in fact already been introduced through the back door with the unlimited buy-back programme and the debt entanglement through the banking union. After so many years of mispolicy, it will not be easy to get the monetary system back on track in Europe. Nevertheless, it is good not only to indicate what has gone deeply wrong and is still wrong, but also to propose possible solutions. Various elements are needed for this. First of all, there is a need for a sense of reality about the debt position of countries. At a debt conference, the situation in Europe must be brought to light and, where necessary, debt cancellation must be carried out. This is not a Novum; that was done before. So why shouldn't we do that again now? There are no cheap recipes, but there are recipes that offer a view of a future. In addition, Member States should be allowed to leave the euro in order to allow internal devaluation. Several sensible proposals are making the round, with me explicitly mentioning The Matheo Solution (TMS) by the Dutchman André ten Dam. Only through monetary devaluation and an own interest rate policy can the industry of weak countries become competitive again, of course, in conjunction with the necessary reforms. Have the French made a start on this? Or the Italians? At the end of the day, weak countries have to work on the trust that international financiers have in a country. To this end, security must be provided which can vary considerably from one country to another, but which must be backed up by investors. Next, the ECB's structure needs to be thoroughly improved. In particular, the system whereby every country in the euro area has an equal voice, regardless of the number of inhabitants, regardless of the per capita and economic weight, should be reviewed as a matter of urgency. The conditions under which countries can enter and leave the euro area must also be crystal clear. Finally, hard agreements on maximum debt ceilings that are once not violated are desperately needed. Besides, we're running out of time. The euro is dying after death and CPR needs to be taken up vigorously. To this end, each individual nation within Europe must demand full control of its own monetary and socio-economic policies as quickly as possible. The need for an effective treaty change is not attractive, but inevitable. A Europe of autonomous states investing in economic and social cooperation, respecting and respecting local differences, offers a more realistic vision of the future than a political union without democratic legitimacy and without support from the various peoples of Europe. Where does the Dutch government stand in this complicated field of force? The past few years have been characterized by corny austerity rhetoric and throwing all kinds of problems across provinces and municipalities. The decentralisation mantra and the participatory citizen are the most characteristic elements of current government policy, with the relentless practice not working as smoothly as was envisaged on the planning boards of a number of ministries. The attacks on middle groups and income groups at the bottom of society are being sold as a triumph of this government policy. Even the small recovery that the economy is showing, mainly due to low energy prices, this cabinet owes self-confidence to its own strength. The loss of purchasing power among large groups of the population is denied or downplayed. It is not easy for the citizen to be put on the wrong foot and has now lost all his confidence in politics. This government is persevering on the European leash. Of course, no one will argue that Europe is irrelevant to our financial and social future. However, within this Europe, with major security problems and a monetary-economic policy that creates more problems than it solves, the economic backwardness of many parts of the world is increasing. Is that to be blamed on this cabinet? Yeah, that's what it's all about. By pursuing an extremely short-sighted neoliberal austerity policy, the economy has collapsed and only sets the tone for rhetoric. Where are the much needed investments in a good future for every Dutchman? Where is the vision of this cabinet? Where is the social commitment and passion that, in difficult times, leads a society through difficult conditions in many areas? Why should the citizen have confidence in this cabinet? What is the added value for the Netherlands of the current Europe and the euro in its current form? In any case, the answers to these obvious questions are unknown to me. Perhaps the government can still provide the citizen with convincing answers. If this policy debate produces that, it would be pure profit. Unfortunately, there is a huge difference between hope and expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u48	Does one of the Members still wish to speak? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a brief moment and ask the spokesmen and the Minister to come here for further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-9.u49	Given the personal circumstances of the Minister, the debate will not continue this evening. It was decided, in consultation with the Minister and the spokesmen, that the debate on the General European Reviews would resume on Monday evening, 1 June. It's a very special way for some of you to complete parliamentary membership in the heat of battle. That's beautiful, isn't it? It may be a weird request, but we've taken into account dinner at dinner break. My predecessor, Fred de Graaf, says: we eat everything. I'm kindly asking you to take advantage of dinner after all. I will close the meeting here and I wish the Minister every strength.
