ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. European banking supervision is an important step in the framework of the European Banking Union. The aim is to ensure effective European banking supervision to prevent a repetition of the last financial crisis and to ensure that taxpayers no longer pay for saving failing banks. Good and effective supervision is therefore crucial. However, double supervision should be avoided, as the costs of supervision appear occasionally to be self-driving baking flour. At national level, a VVD amendment limits the maximum increase. At European level, you have the same risk and the VVD therefore wants to look at two issues: double supervision and supervision of ECB supervision. Double supervision leads to additional administrative burdens and unnecessary supervisory costs. The Minister states that the AFM cannot retain supervisory tasks that are explicitly and exclusively invested with the ECB under the Regulation. However, the AFM seems to retain a role in tasks, for example in licensing and driver reviews. Why is that the case? The letter of amendment includes a switch clause clarifying that the ECB is competent and DNB is not in those cases. Why is such a switching clause not included for the AFM? A memorandum or understanding between the ECB and the AFM appears to be under way. Can the Minister indicate if this is going to happen? Is the principle that the ECB has competence in the event of doubt? The VVD wants, if the ECB supervision lasts two years, to see how it develops in practice and whether there will be duplications. We would then like to have an evaluation of this. Is the Minister willing to do that? I have already said that good and effective supervision is crucial and that unnecessary supervisory costs should be avoided. In recent years, supervisory costs have tripled. DNB previously noted that the reporting burden of banks increased by around 250%. This cannot be done without administrative burdens. Is the Minister prepared to work at European level for reasonable supervisory costs, a responsible increase, but also an incentive to control costs in this respect? National Parliaments are also provided with information on ECB supervision. What's all this included? Can an annual overview of these total costs be provided? In the Netherlands, we currently have advisory costs when it comes to supervision costs. We are curious to see how this has been regulated at European level and whether it is an opportunity to use it at European level. In the case of ECB supervision, there appears to be a check hole for efficiency, effectiveness and hence quality of supervision. The VVD does not consider this desirable. In the Netherlands, the Court of Auditors has a role in this. What information and possibilities will the European Parliament and the House of Representatives have to monitor quality and efficiency? What opportunities will the European Court of Auditors have in the future? Is the Minister prepared to work for more powers of the European Court of Auditors? I'll continue with the length of the permit. As far as we are concerned, more new entrants in the banking sector are needed to increase competition. The ACM recently looked at the entry barriers and concluded that the authorisation system in the Netherlands is unnecessarily strict. The duration of the authorisation process has been examined, among other things. The Minister has therefore asked Actal to look into this. The VVD is surprised that in this bill the deadlines are being stretched and doubled. We are curious to see what the Minister thinks is useful and necessary at the moment. We are considering an amendment on that point. Why, on the contrary, a doubling of the deadlines? It's been a very long time. Why isn't the Minister waiting for the Actal investigation? Then there is a final point about the single rule book. The VVD finds it disappointing from the point of view of a level playing field and competition that there will not really be a single rule book for the banks. In the end, that must be achieved as far as we are concerned. We are curious how the ECB will monitor the headlines of national legislation, such as the Dutch remuneration policy and the unilaterally increased leverage ratio. In a letter the Minister recently informed the House of Representatives how he wanted to introduce the unilateral increase in the leverage ratio. We are curious how the ECB will maintain that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands, the Dutch Bank, no longer supervises the largest seven banks in this country. We have been sidelined with that. Not only DNB has been put out of play, but also the parliament and even this minister. After all, no one controls supervision. No one shall monitor the functioning of the ECB and the quality of supervision. The European Court of Auditors can only look at expenditure. We just had a hearing and then the spending was on pencils and pens. The ECB will issue a statement of no objection or a bank licence for a bank wishing to establish itself in the Netherlands. That's not up to us anymore. We're not allowed to find any of that. The ECB in Frankfurt is in charge and decides. But if things go wrong, it is the banks and thus the consumers who are allowed to pay. We have nothing to say about the seven largest banks in the Netherlands, with a balance sheet total of nearly 2,200 billion, three and a half times greater than our GDP. The PVV thinks that risky business, but the hangover will follow later. The PVV was always against this next step of European integration. Step by step, we are handing everything over to Brussels and Frankfurt. We have nothing more to say. We cannot even ask ourselves what is good for the Netherlands anymore. It has to be: what is good for Europe? Klaas Knot confirmed that image at a hearing last week. He literally said: "I am not on that ECB board for the Dutch interest, but only for the European interest." That's how it's arranged in the statutes. End of exercise: The Netherlands no longer exists. The European Union will, and must, merge into one whole, if it does not succeed, then it will. If politics fails, we do it monetaryly through the ECB or budgetaryly through the six-pack or banking supervision. The banking union is therefore a fact that has been fulfilled. Nevertheless, I have a number of questions. Why do DNB's supervisory costs not go down for the banks, now that so many tasks are being taken over by the ECB? The cost, as we see it, is only going up. The sector is going to pay almost 50 million more instead of less. Can the Minister explain this? Why is the staff of DNB not reduced? After all, there are a lot of supervisory tasks going to Frankfurt. Who controls the quality and effectiveness of supervision at the ECB? The General Court indicates that the European Court of Auditors has no access to files and the underlying decision-making. The European Court of Auditors only controls expenditure and management, but not the effectiveness of supervision. Is the Minister going to close this control hole? Finally. The Dutch banks will have to transfer 4 billion for the banking union in the next four years. Can the Minister guarantee that these costs will not be passed on to consumers and that this will not be at the expense of the already lousy lending to SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u4	Mr. Chairman. The advent of joint European banking supervision could be a good thing. The international nature of banks means that you have to make good agreements about supervision. We have therefore always strongly opposed the principle of home country control, where you control only from the country where the head office is located, unlike host country control. A notorious example of home country control was Icesave Landsbanke, which had a branch in the Netherlands. The Icelandic bank supervised it and the Netherlands could only stand by. Regarding the supervision of branches, when it comes to small, non-significant banks, I always find that to be a separate term, as if they do not matter........................................................................................................................................................................................ The approval is a given, unless the supervisor explicitly objects. That surprised me because this is a decline in relation to the situation in the past. Now Icesave Landsbanke would not even have to ask permission in Iceland, because that would be a given. It goes even further. The host supervisor may no longer impose conditions on the opening of a branch and cross-border provision of services. Again, I wonder what went wrong. If Icesave is going to settle here, do you want the Netherlands to be able to set conditions to protect people? What have we learned from the debacle of Icesave? The supervision of the European banking sector serves an enormous public interest. Good supervision of financial supervision is therefore vital. In the Netherlands, more than twenty years of struggle have been waged to gain insight into the books of the Nederlandsche Bank. That would not be necessary, as was said. After all, the Dutch Bank knew what he was doing. Even when everything that could go wrong in the field of financial supervision went wrong, the Dutch Bank kept the books frightfully closed. Not only did this make the work of a parliamentary committee of inquiry more difficult, but also the General Court was shut down. A year and a half ago, I congratulated the Minister when he said that he was going to sit down just as well, because it all seemed arranged with an amendment to the law on financial supervision, but now the whole story starts again. The introduction of the SPS, European banking supervision, means that our General Court of Auditors is no longer able to investigate the functioning of the supervision of the big Dutch banks. That's what the AFM states in her letter she sent to the Chamber yesterday. But the European Court of Auditors cannot do it either, writes the AFM in its letter. Surely it can't be that the possibility of monitoring just disappears in this way? I asked the Minister today for a letter on this matter. I know he's trying hard to close this control hole, but I hope this leads to more than a goal you ideally want to move towards. Does the Minister agree with me that this is an essential, tough condition under which supervision can exist? The Minister writes in the letter we have just received that there are other control mechanisms, such as reporting on the task. It is fine that a report is being produced, but that is not enough as a control mechanism. Have we learned nothing from the fact that we always let the Dutch Bank go ahead without any party to keep it sharp? The Dutch Bank would know all about it. Have we learned nothing from the credit crisis, from all the mistakes made at ABN AMRO, Icesave, DSB and SNS, the Libor affair and so on? The "believ us but on our blue eyes" era should have been put behind us by now. How does the Minister see his own role as Minister? What responsibility does he still have when it comes to banks in the Netherlands? If he has any further responsibility, doesn't that include being fully informed? In this context, I would like to know from the Minister why the letter of amendment states that the consultation with the Minister for Finance on the temporary measures to be taken has lapsed. The reason would be for the ECB to take over the supervision, but why is that provided for in a letter of amendment? And why should the ECB not go in consultation with the minister? Isn't it logical to do that? What does that say about the Minister's information position and his role? I come to the role of national parliaments. According to Article 21 of the Regulation, national parliaments of the participating Member States may, through their own procedures, request a written response to their comments or questions on the tasks performed by the ECB under this Regulation. The Minister writes that, as a national parliament, we can send reasoned comments to the ECB. That's great, but I'm mostly interested in motivated answers. After all, we can send a letter to everyone; we do not need an article in a regulation for that. Is the ECB also obliged to send a reply within a certain period of time? Can comments from a national parliament relate only to the accountability report, or can comments be made in between? If, as a national parliament, we invite a member of the Executive Board of the ECB, could the member in question refuse to do so? The role of national parliaments is small, as they have no influence, but can only be informed. In any case, let us ensure that the right to information is truly guaranteed and includes more than the right to send an invitation or a letter. The latter can always be done. Does the Minister agree with me that national parliaments have the right to explain the policy pursued at all times? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Part of the authorisation has been postponed to the ECB. For example, the ECB may or may not issue a statement of no objection in the event of the acquisition of a bank. In this context, I would like to mention an incident which we should have learned something from. In the process of acquiring ABN AMRO, it was established at a certain point that there would indeed be a gap in order not to have to make a statement of no objection. Then came the Antonveneta Directive and the question was whether this was still possible. The question is what we have learned from that. The national central bank may prepare the declaration of no objection. Is this always supposed to happen by default? Is the statement of no objection prepared by the central bank in the country of the bank being taken over or by the central bank in the country of the bank making the acquisition? Does the Minister agree with me that the ECB should at least verify the position of the central bank in the country of the bank that is being taken over? This happened, for example, when ABN AMRO was taken over by a foreign bank. Is the advice of the national central bank to the ECB publicly available? I get the impression that this is not the case. If the advice is indeed not public, why is it? Is it already clear whether the ECB will also involve competition in the sector when assessing an application? We are pleased to receive a response from the Minister. Next, a comment on the appointment of bank directors. On the basis of the Regulation, the ECB is primarily responsible for the review of directors in significant banks. Do I understand correctly that the ECB can stop the appointment of directors and also send directors? If so, will this always be done at the request of the Dutch Bank? Can the Nederlandsche Bank also send drivers on its own? The AFM also plays a role in this. Is that double gate system still intact? Do advice on the suitability and reliability of directors always go through the Netherlands Bank, or can they also be sent directly to the ECB? As far as the leverage ratio is concerned, we are all agreed that it should be higher. The Minister has proposed 4%. It would be nice if a higher leverage ratio would indeed be decided jointly in the EU in 2018, but what if that did not happen? Then we should at least be able to decide to sit higher ourselves if we want to. Shouldn't we always be able to do that as a country at all? The cabinet says it is committed to giving this space to national governments. That's in the right direction. However, it still sounds bad: if other countries don't want to, that's okay. Can't the cabinet make that a tough condition? Otherwise, the 4% will be nothing, because then we'll go back. What role can parliaments play in this matter in the near future? Finally, on enforcement. I understand that the ECB can only impose sanctions if rules in the Capital Requirements Regulation are infringed. The Netherlands Bank may also impose a fine in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in the Capital Requirements Directive. Is it always one of the two who imposes the fine? Or could it also be that one additional imposes a fine on the other? Is it always clear in advance who imposes the fine? Finally, who is the source of income in all these cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u5	I have become curious whether Mr Merkies is for or against a banking union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u6	I think we have had this discussion before and I have said: no, I am against a banking union, but a banking union is much more. This is also about "our banks saving your banks." Then it's about the whole story. This is only the part of joint supervision, and I am in favour of it. That's what I've always said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u7	I ask for this because I have tabled a motion asking the government to refrain from participating in the Banking Union, which the SP was in favour of. But the SP is therefore in favour of putting down our supervision, which used to be done by DNB, in Frankfurt now, so that we actually have nothing more to say, just like with Icesave? Soon a bank X will be set up in Amsterdam, and the minister doesn't know, we don't know, nobody knows anything about it, but the ECB has approved it and says: you can sit in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u8	Mr Van Dijck gives an example of why we are, among other things, in favour of central control, i.e. Icesave. At Icesave we had no supervision, because then the principle of home country control was applied; the supervision was in Iceland. Oh, that's difficult. Mr Van Dijck should also find that difficult. That is why we say: it is very good that this can no longer be the case and that we are now drawing up common rules for this and establishing joint supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u9	Mr. Chairman. D66, as you all know, is a strong supporter of the European Banking Union. It is essential to break as far as possible the interlinkages between banks and governments in the euro area and in the European Union. With this implementing law, another step is taken in that operation. I have a few questions on four aspects, namely the possibilities for new players to join, the emergence of megabanks, the position of the AFM and indeed the role of the European Court of Auditors. I shall begin with the possibilities for accession. More competition in the banking sector is a spearhead of D66, as competition leads to lower prices, better services and more choice for customers. Too little competition in the banking sector makes banks too powerful. Competition can be improved in several ways. I always mention number portability and setting up a good switching service. However, it can also be done by allowing new players to join the market. Several parties indicate that the procedure for applying for a banking licence is surrounded by uncertainty and that the abiding institution of DNB deters new entrants. The ACM therefore advised last year to evaluate DNB's licensing system and Actal is currently investigating the regulatory burden when obtaining a banking license. While these investigations are ongoing and we are still waiting for the outcome, this bill doubles the time limit for assessing an application for a licence, which means that entrepreneurs will have to wait for a decision on a banking licence for a six-month period even if they are to be renewed for a year. DNB asks for this extension because the current deadline of 13 weeks is often not reached; on average it takes about four and a half months. I would like to hear from the Minister why an extension to six months would be necessary. Should we also consider whether the procedure can be more efficient and at least await the outcome of the ongoing investigation before we anchor it? Actal is delivering advice this spring if it's okay. Is this still on schedule? Can this advice be taken? My second point concerns the megabanks. We have spoken before about the scale of banks and the risks of megabanks or too big to fail banks. With the entry into force of the Banking Union, we will now address this problem not at national level but at international level. However, there may be a process of mergers and acquisitions at European level, so that we get megabanks there, but on a European scale. We've talked about this before with the Minister. The ECB is about to issue the declaration of no objection to mergers and acquisitions, and the review of the proposed mergers and acquisitions is based on the Antonveneta Directive. The Minister undertook to use an element or review criterion to ensure financial stability in the evaluation of this Directive, precisely in order to avoid the risk of megabanks. How's this going? What's been done with this so far? My third point concerns the role and position of the AFM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u10	Mr Koolmees and I very much agree on the risk that if you scale up supervision, you may leave open the possibility that very large banks will be created. There must be some kind of counter-force. I wonder what Mr Koolmees is actually proposing to ensure that we do not get huge megabanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u11	We have had this debate before. Last time, I called for safeguards to be included in the Antonveneta Directive in order to prevent megabanks that are too large on a European scale to go bankrupt through mergers and acquisitions. For example, you can think of balance sheet totals or covered deposits. At the time, the Minister indicated that he saw a hook on the Antonveneta Directive. Since the ECB is about to review the declaration of no objection in the case of mergers and acquisitions to see whether it is permissible, I think it is wise to lay this down in legislation. That is above all European legislation. For example, the ECB has a hook to say: we will not allow this merger or acquisition, because then this bank will become too large.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u12	Finally, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u13	I'm trying to make it concrete. Take, for example, a balance sheet total. Does what Mr Koolmees says then mean: the bank that comes out of here has too large a balance sheet total? Mr Koolmees does not need to mention a specific number, but does he want a specific number to be mentioned in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u14	We also had this discussion a few months ago. I was then corrected by the Minister, who said it was ultimately about the risk. I agree with him; in the end you also have to look at the composition of the balance sheet and see how much risk there is on the balance sheet. That is why the Antonveneta Directive would be the right way to consider the criteria to be laid down in the law in order to prevent the emergence of these large banks. I think Mr Merkies and I are very much in agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u15	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u16	My third point is the role and position of the AFM. Mrs De Vries has also drawn attention to this. The Netherlands is the only Member State with the so-called twin peaks model. This requires some customisation in the application of this Regulation. My specific question is how to avoid duplication of tasks, resulting in double supervisory burdens. The ECB and the AFM may also conclude a cooperation agreement, a MoU. How's this going? Finally. Colleagues have already mentioned the role of the European Court of Auditors. We have had a long discussion in Parliament about the role of the Dutch General Court and the supervision of the banks, and the ability to understand supervisory confidential files. The Minister has promised to work for this in Europe as well. A letter was issued at 6:08 p.m. clearly stating that the Minister still thinks this is an important item and that he wants to commit himself to it. However, the question is who is really bothering and why. Can this be repaired at a later date, so that the European Court of Auditors does indeed have control over this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u17	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA strongly supports the European Banking Union. The financial malaise of the major banks and the "too big to fail" problem, which ultimately led to a financial and European crisis, can only be tackled on a European scale. Today, a part of the legislation is in place to make this possible further: European banking supervision. I have three points today. The first concerns the national head of European legislation. Not all parties in this Chamber are always happy about this, but the PvdA Group is strongly in favour of at least setting up two different issues than European legislation. The first is the bonus legislation, which just entered into force last week. This is Europe's strictest bonus legislation. The question is how and to what extent our national regulations will soon be monitored. Is it going to be as strict as we had foreseen, as the Dutch Bank would have otherwise planned? How was that secured? The second is perhaps even more important for the health of the financial sector: the buffers, the leverage ratio. As previous speakers have already pointed out, a letter will shortly be sent to the Parliament, stating how the 4% leverage ratio, which differs from the 3% European agreed leverage ratio, will be introduced in the Netherlands. Will it be maintained, too? Is that something that's being watched out for? How does that happen? My second point concerns the role of the AFM, or rather the supervision of behaviour. We monitor the way in which institutions operate, both micro-prudentially and macro-prudentially; the latter is about whether they are not putting the system at risk. We also supervise behavior: do financial institutions not sell garbage? In fact, the Netherlands has a system that is unique in Europe. It is therefore understandable that a relationship has been agreed with the AFM, as clearly explained in the answer to the parliamentary questions. The question is whether there is nothing in Europe to learn from the AFM and the Dutch situation. I know, for example, that a very strict behavior monitor is also active in England, but in other countries of Europe that is regulated differently. Are there not agreements at European level in developed products that could be harmful in all countries? What's the affair? Can we not learn lessons from the functioning of our AFM in Europe? It's working pretty well. Well, that's a good thing to say. We often have discussions about bodies that are not working as well, but the AFM is acting fairly adequately. What are the possibilities of using this also in the financial sector in the rest of Europe? A great deal has already been said about the third point, the accounting function. We have arranged this well at national level; Mr Koolmees is already looking forward to it. It is somewhat regulated at European level, according to the Minister's letter, but not with full access and a full mandate. That'd be good. The PvdA Group therefore calls on the Minister to make a commitment to this in Europe. Finally, I would like to endorse two good points made by my fellow Members. Mr Merkies was committed to providing information to the Chamber, including the information channel, as you might call it, between the Chamber and the Central Bank. I thought those were good and rightful questions. Mr Koolmees and Mrs De Vries said that the time limit for granting licences is being extended for a very long time. They asked whether this is really necessary, as we have an interest in a prudent, careful, but also rapid supervisor. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u18	Mr. Chairman. Banking supervision is an important step for the stability of the financial sector. Risks are transferred from individual Member States and taxpayers to the sector itself. This does not mean that all risks to the taxpayer have been averted; I will come back to that later. Although the CDA supports the banking union, there are still quite a few fragrant edges to this step. That is what I am thinking now, or I agree with colleagues. First of all, I come to the interlinkage between the ECB's supervisory tasks and its monetary tasks. Although the government indicates that the separation of powers is well arranged, the CDA still has questions about this. In the end, the decision-making power for both tasks rests with the same body. Officially this problem is addressed by "strictly separated meetings and agendas." Furthermore, there are all kinds of safeguards with possibilities for appeal and appeal. Nevertheless, the CDA envisages that the ECB's dual role in the future will pose problems in the future and, in all honesty, even How, for example, can it be that bank stability requires additional risk buffers? The ECB's supervisory branch may decide to do so. However, this can be quite negative for lending and thus for the economy and the inflation target. The monetary branch of the ECB has an interest in increasing the amount of credit granted by banks. It's the same organization that has different interests. It's waiting for this to twist, despite all the Chinese walls. Now there's nothing we can do about this. The Lower House will have to be particularly sharp when the ECB is accountable to the European Council and the European Parliament. The Lower House may also invite someone from the ECB's supervisory board to ask questions. The President of DNB, Mr Klaas Knot, came by last week for the monetary section. Furthermore, a mediation panel has been set up that can mediate in cases where DNB and the ECB disagree. Can the cabinet indicate who should be on the mediation panel and how decision-making is to take place? What happens if that mediation process gets stuck? The CDA's concerns about the intertwinedness of tasks and how this is reflected in the supervision of banks could still be removed if there were a body that could exercise independent control of them, such as the National General Court in the Netherlands could have done for a few years, until the Banking Union was introduced. We have seen in the Netherlands that this is very important. We went to the Netherlands just because Vie d'Or broke down. I would like to thank the Minister for the letter which states that the relatively small proportion of expenditure which is not only about pens but also about the slightly too large towers that are sometimes built at the ECB can be controlled by the European Court of Auditors. However, the taxpayer has only really gotten wet on the need to recapitalise banks, for tens of billions, in Ireland, Spain and the Netherlands. The European Court of Auditors cannot check whether that has been a good thing. That has been discussed before. Colleagues have already referred to this. In July, there was a letter of fire from the General Court of Auditors on improving the ECB's powers of control. The Minister has agreed to commit himself to this. When can we see the step of a concrete treaty change? That is what is required. The Germans also had this opportunity, so maybe they want to participate in it. Is the Minister or the Deputy Finance Minister prepared to put this issue on the table on behalf of the Netherlands at the next Eurogroup meeting in February or whenever it is taking place? I now hear that I am confusing the Eurogroup meeting with Ecofin. Is the Minister prepared to put this issue on the table at Ecofin on behalf of the Netherlands and to obtain support for it? This is exactly a point on which countries such as Ireland and Spain, which have had to invest a lot of money to capitalize their banks, should agree. I suspect that this does not have to be a political point from North to South or from the weaker ones towards the strong euro countries. This is a public interest for an enormous amount of public money. I come to talk about the role of DNB. The answer given by the cabinet shows that the role of DNB is seen differently. The ECB has the vast majority of decision-making powers and can therefore overrule DNB. The example has already been mentioned: the statement of no objection. DNB makes a draft decision, but the ECB may take a different decision. This is the result of a banking union, but we are questioning this. The risks of banking no longer lie with the taxpayer but with the banks. How does the Minister see the process if he considers such a merger to be highly undesirable and if the ECB does allow it to continue? We would point out that the CDA group, like the D66 group, has repeatedly argued in the Chamber for a merger stop, at least for a temporary merger stop for megabanks. We do see mergers of this kind as a danger. I refer to the motion in part No. 71 (32013) and to a number of other motions that we have tabled. I agree with what Mrs De Vries said about the AFM. Her speech was perfectly clear on this point. We are also wondering how valid this twin peaks model is if the rest of Europe does it completely differently. We may find that model ideal in the Netherlands, but if you do it together, you can reconsider it. Also the Financial Supervision Act more generally, is something that can be reconsidered. There are now quite radical changes in the Wft, but is that law still working? I thought that was a little for integrated bank insurers. I do not think we have much of that at the moment, after all that has happened. That law is therefore intended precisely for a development which is not actually taking place anymore. Will a plan be drawn up to deal with a systemic crisis in the banking union? At the moment, the banking union assumes that every now and then a bank is going down. There are solutions and funds for that. However, resolving a systemic crisis with current capital does not seem to be one of its capabilities. What happens if, for example, the derivatives market collapses as such? I would like to receive the Minister's commitment to this in another section on the Banking Union, and to have a stress test carried out on this. In that case, the banking union will really be tested. Colleagues have already addressed the question of whether you can also join a banking union voluntarily. How long, and until when, is a country formally in the Banking Union, with all the things that go with it? Let us take the totally fictional example of a country that would leave the euro. Does such a country, as soon as it leaves the euro, immediately pay attention to the problems with its own banks? Or does that country still fall back on the backstops and guarantees contained in this system? This does not seem to be regulated. It is therefore possible for banks from outside the euro area to join the banking union, but my group would like to know what is happening at the time of exit. That can be a very expensive moment. I come to monetary policy. We have just discussed a problem between banks, general supervisory policy and macroeconomic policy. There may be a collision between them. However, the CDA Group points out that the current policy of the ECB transfers the cost of the crisis to savers. Dutch pension funds are the biggest saver in the euro area. They have the greatest power. Because of low interest rate policy, we can safely call it a zero interest rate policy. A pension fund can no longer buy a government bond with a ten-year maturity over which it receives more than 1% interest. In fact, if a pension fund buys a five-year Finnish government bond, the fund has to pay to Finland to lend money. That's not going very well. This means, in fact, that there is a shift in costs and that the costs are borne by pension funds. Who in the European Union is going to defend the interests of pension funds and savers? So I am not talking about the billionaires, I say while I look at Mr Merkies. I see him reacting, but I'm just looking at him and I'm not saying anything else. But I do mean something by it. I'm talking about the ordinary savers, the ordinary pensioners. It is not a question of imposing additional taxes, but it is implicitly imposing a huge tax on pensioners. My group would like to know who is going to take care in this monetary policy field in this banking union that they will not ultimately, in an indirect way, bear the costs of the current financial crisis disproportionately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u19	Mr. Chairman. A multitude of questions have been asked in response to this bill. I'd better go straight to the answer without too much introduction and fuss. The first question concerns the division of roles, not only between the European regulator and DNB, but also the relationship with the AFM. Mrs De Vries said that she assumed that there would be no duplication of supervision. That's up to her. That wasn't the case in the old model either. There was a demarcation: what did DNB do and what did the AFM do? In any case, there was one specific point on which we were working together. Those were the driver's tests for fitness. A procedure is now being agreed for this. That power goes to the ECB. The ECB shall decide on this at the end of the day. However, an agreement is made on how the AFM is to be heard. To that end, excuse me, I have to blow through my nose... a MoU is being developed that's going to be shut down. There isn't yet, but it's about to close. That's for sure. Moreover, the ECB may decide independently in the driver review, but may also request DNB to prepare a review. The AFM may then give a binding opinion to DNB for a draft decision and may also give its own findings to the ECB. In the case of so-called "less significant banks', the AFM may also issue a binding opinion on the decision taken by DNB. In all cases, the ECB shall have the last word. It's exactly laid down in a protocol. The AFM is talking to the ECB about this. It seems to me to be a very good idea to lay it down in a protocol. I can assure your Chamber that she will be informed of this, so that everyone will know how that is done. An important point for your Chamber and for myself is supervision. There are a few points to make. We did indeed send another letter to your Chamber at the end of the day. That was also because another request came my way at the last minute. However, I have made a distinction between those cases in which auditors have jurisdiction and what they supervise. It is not the case that the European Court of Auditors has no powers over the ECB. He does. However, it is a question of effectiveness in particular. Does it work? Is there any timely intervention? Are the good requirements and the risks recognised in good time? It is therefore a question of effectiveness, not of legality or efficiency of the means employed and so on. To this end, the European Court of Auditors simply has powers. In Dutch law, we have very recently regulated that the General Court may even look into supervisory confidential files in order to form an image of the effectiveness of the policy. This aspect has not yet been settled in Europe and European legislation. Your Chamber attaches great importance to this, the Dutch Court of Auditors attaches great importance to it and I attach great importance to it. So that's what I'm gonna do. I've had a question about the advisory panel. I believe that was a question from Mrs De Vries. In the Netherlands, the financial sector, represented in an advisory panel, can express its views on the supervisory budget and policy. He has no formal powers or direct influence on this, but he can share his views on it. There is no such panel at European level. There are, of course, all kinds of possibilities to exert influence. For example, in ECB policy, policy documents are consulted and there are public consultations, where the sector has ample opportunity to express its opinion. Furthermore, there is, of course, the possibility of exerting national or European influence towards Parliament and commenting on policies where that is at issue. The same applies to the material standards of ECB supervision, including those resulting from EBA technical standards. They are also consulted with the sector and there too the sector can make its voice heard. There is therefore no permanent panel in which policy can be discussed over and over again, but there are established procedures for consulting and taking the comments of the sector. Furthermore, accountability to the European Parliament and the Council for what the ECB supervisory leg does is crucial. It shall forward the ECB's annual monitoring report to the Council and the European Parliament, as well as to the Commission and the Eurogroup. That can all be discussed there. The ECB may also be heard by the euro group. It may be invited to hearings in the European Parliament to further account for ECB supervisory tasks. The ECB may also be questioned by the EP as to how it actually applies its policy in practice. The EP can also carry out an inquiry into this subject within its scope. The agreement is now that the Commission will review the SPS every three years. I thought Mrs De Vries asked if it could be followed for two years. In any case, a three-year evaluation period has been agreed at European level. And then I'll wait for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u20	You'd better finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u21	The sentence is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u22	Indeed, the ECB should be primarily accountable to the European Parliament, but a guiding statement was requested here. Maybe the Minister can make that statement. When it comes to a statement of no objection or something that affects exclusively one of the seven Dutch banks, does the Minister think that the ECB should be prepared to attend a hearing at that time? After all, the Dutch taxpayer also bears a part of the risk. Now I am not talking about all the circumstances, but about the moment when an important decision is being taken that affects the Dutch financial sector. Is the Minister prepared, under these circumstances, to make an effort to ensure that DNB wants to be heard here? Sorry, I mean the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u23	DNB can also, because DNB does not disappear from the picture. I'll get back to you on that. DNB shall become one of the main performers under the responsibility of the ECB. In those supervisory teams also under the ECB's responsibility, primary DNB people will do the work. Having said that, both representatives of DNB and representatives of the ECB are prepared to appear if the Dutch Parliament or any other national parliament so requests. If Mr Omtzigt means 'before decisions are taken', then that is not possible. Powers are simply laid down, for example resolution decisions. That could also be supervisory decisions. They have been mandated to an independent supervisor. But accountability is always possible, except for supervisory confidential information. However, certainly at the level of policy how did you apply your policy or how do you deal with it with the Dutch banks? I think that's just settled. Let me say here that I also think it is desirable and will insist on it if it is necessary for representatives of the SPS/ECB to come to the Dutch Parliament as well. Take, for example, the point of cost. In the Dutch Parliament we often talk about the costs of supervision, which have increased considerably. How is this going to be under European competence? People from the ECB have said to me that they are willing to come to the Dutch Parliament to tell us how they will deal with this, how they will get to that cost-building in the budget, how they will justify it and how they will try to keep it under control. On these issues there is a willingness to inform the parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u24	I'd like to have it a little more sharper. It is very good if the ECB says that it is prepared to come. In a while, there might be other people there. I am concerned that we, as well as other national parliaments, have an information right. So do we also have the right to have the ECB's management come along if we ask for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u25	I do not know to what extent this question differs from Mr Omtzigt's. A number of things are simply explicitly regulated. For example, the monitoring report will also simply be sent to the national parliaments. That happens unsolicited, and Parliament has a right to do so. That will happen every year. If the Chamber then invites the ECB/SSM representative to a hearing or a closed conversation, that hearing or conversation will take place, whatever its nature and subject matter. It has been explicitly stated that this possibility exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u26	That there is a possibility is something other than that we have a right. I ask because in the past it was not so common for the supervisors to come here in the Chamber. We even had to fight to get a chance to talk to them here at all. You had to ask the Minister's permission to do that. I know that was also rejected at some point. So it is not so crazy to ask whether we have that right to ask a director of the ECB here at all times. So I am not asking whether it is possible, but whether they will come if we ask them to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u27	Yes, because I believe it is explicitly regulated that parliaments should have the right to hold hearings and invite directors of the ECB. I would almost say to Mr Merkies that he should be pleased that the Dutch Minister does not have to give his consent and cannot refuse to do so. Apparently, that happened in the past. We can't do that anymore in the future. I'm not in the middle of this anymore. I have already mentioned the report which is also being sent to the national parliaments. The European Parliament may initiate an investigation. National Parliaments may also invite the ECB in response to the report. This has been explicitly included in the regulation laying down supervision of the ECB. If it didn't work, I'd like to be the first to hear it and I'll be committed to it. Mr Merkies asked whether the ECB was obliged to reply to questions from national parliaments within a certain period of time. As far as I know, there's no hard time. I also have no reason to believe that the ECB will not give a timely reply. As said, if the answer is too long, the Chamber can also invite a member of the Supervisory Board to a meeting or a hearing. There has been talk of ministerial responsibility. Of course, it's definitely different under the SPS. The role of the national minister is absolutely different. Under the SPS, the ECB is now responsible. DNB is primarily responsible for the less significant banks, but is also a major executive under the ECB's responsibility to do the ECB's work or to assist the ECB. The ECB can direct DNB directly, provide guidance and may also attract supervision if the Netherlands Bank does not act adequately or does not listen to the instructions from Frankfurt. The ECB will then be able to take over supervision directly. That's all outside of me. All of this is now centrally and independently regulated. In this sense, the role of the national minister is therefore more limited. I started this block with the role of the Court of Auditors. I very much agree that it needs to be arranged. As far as effectiveness is concerned, it has not yet been settled. The powers of the General Court went beyond those of the European Court of Auditors after the last legislative amendment. We're on the same side. Mr Omtzig has asked very specifically whether I am prepared to put this issue on the table at the next sitting. It's not gonna be very effective in itself to put that blundering on the table all of a sudden. If there's a question, almost no one's paying attention. It's not use. Since it requires a legislative amendment, it is therefore necessary to initiate this process with the Commission, to get the ECB involved and to obtain support from Member States. Then we are going to amend the directive on this point, so that we have that power. We are working with the Germans and one of the members asked for this because the Germans also know this far-reaching competence of their Court of Auditors. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about the mediation panel and the decision-making process of the ECB. Mr Omtzigt said that it is not perfect, to put it euphemistically, that in one body decision-making comes together on the issue of supervision and monetary policy. Of course, that's not perfect either. In the event of any future treaty amendment, there would be a great deal to be said for functional separation. At the time we entered into these negotiations and decided to launch the Banking Union, it was not to do so at that time. That is why we have built in a number of safeguards. One is that mediation can take place when the governing council intervenes and insists. This concerns a situation in which the governing council objects to draft decisions of the supervisory board and national supervisors in that board objecting to this intervention. Each country has one member on the mediation panel. Members shall be elected by all members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. They do that on the basis of "one man, one vote," so there's no qualified voting ratio. So there will always be a decision. The mediation panel then finally decides in the disagreement between the national supervisor and the governing council that has an objection. There shall be a simple majority of votes. I come to the question of costs, which I have already mentioned. Mrs De Vries asked quite specifically whether there was an overview of the overall costs of supervision. For the period November 2014 to December 2015.................................................................................................................................................. The vast majority of these, 255 million, will be passed on to the significant banks, which are directly supervised by the ECB, and the remaining part to the less significant banks. Pay attention to euphemism. As far as the management of supervisory costs is concerned, I have already said that the ECB is prepared to brief the Court on how it has set it up. A funding scheme has been established following a public consultation. This has made it clear how the costs will be shared out among the banks. This arrangement and all the decisions that result from it, i.e. the transfer of costs between banks, are simply questionable before the courts, up to and including the European Court of Justice. The control of the budget, both through Parliament, the Commission, the Council and the Eurogroup, as well as through the Court of Auditors' audit of efficiency, naturally also contributes to this cost control. Mr Van Dijck asked why the costs do not go down, as the ECB takes over tasks. He asked why the costs would go up. Both the ECB and DNB continue to exercise supervisory tasks, as I have already said. It is therefore not the case that the Dutch Bank is now out, does nothing anymore and no longer has a view on the Dutch banks, as Mr Van Dijck's speech showed a little bit. This is certainly not the case, as DNB remains the main operator of the supervisory tasks. The organisation of DNB has been adapted, both as a result of this legislation and as a result of the resolution legislation and the designation of the national resolution authority. The structure has now been adapted to reflect the start of the banking union. The structure of DNB follows on from the tasks arising from the Banking Union. We are therefore going to see in the coming years to what extent savings in supervisory costs are possible. It may well be that the role of DNB will change further in the coming years. It's all still to be removed, so that's why we regularly evaluate it. At the moment I cannot say that DNB has fewer tasks and that it can all be less intensive. My first impression is that the European way of monitoring is more intensive, detailed and deeper than the Dutch supervisory models. They were more risk-driven and indirect than the European way. This is also due to the tradition that existed in other countries. It's very detailed, really up to the banks' files. So there's a lot of work to be done on that for now. Mr Van Dijck has asked me to say that the costs will not be passed on to the consumer. The answer to such a question is always yes and no. It is no, because we have had these debates several times and I believe that the situation in the banks and the profitability of the banks enable them to bear these costs. The same applies to the payments to the resolution fund, to which Mr Van Dijck referred. I think that the Dutch Bank has shown that these costs can be offset within the current business operation. Mr Van Dijck also asked whether the 4 billion for the resolution fund would not be at the expense of lending. Last week we had this debate in the AA on lending. At that time, I argued that DNB's research showed that it can be excellent in the baseline scenario, in which we are now in. The profitability of the Nederlandsche Bank is such that it can also be reserved for payments to the resolution fund. Mr Merkies asked a question about enforcement and fines. Is it possible that a bank will be fined by both the ECB and the Netherlands Bank for the same offence? Then who's the source of income? One can only be fined once for the same offence. A double fine, i.e. on the basis of a directive and a regulation, will therefore not occur. If DNB imposes the fine, the income is due to DNB. We've discussed this before. There's a certain threshold. If it comes up there, it goes back to the treasury. It was the Merkies motion that gave rise to that. If the ECB imposes the fine, the income shall be due to the ECB. Then, unfortunately, they leave my sphere of influence. As a result of the Icesave case, Mr Merkies asked about the conditions governing the establishment of branches. Icesave was an Icelandic bank and Iceland is not in the Banking Union. That makes a lot of difference to the answer. Mr Merkies' assumption is that Iceland will no longer be subject to authorisation in the future, but that will remain the case because Iceland is not in the banking union. If the parent bank has a licence within the Banking Union, the procedure for the establishment of a branch changes. The national supervisor of the home country or the ECB shall in principle agree to the establishment of a branch. It's a "yes, unless" procedure. This is not the case when it comes to an establishment outside the banking union. Then just a permit with conditions will continue to apply. That's why Icesave's case doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u28	I have one more question for you to clarify. Icesave is a cause. Let us take a country within the banking union for convenience. If you have a branch in the Netherlands and the bank is in France, does anyone else have to give permission? It was said that it was 'yes, unless', but I got the impression from the answer to the questions that permission had to be given in France first at the head office and that this was not necessary now, so you automatically get permission to establish a branch in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u29	Yeah, that's right. The parent bank is in France. If that parent bank wishes to establish a branch in the area of the Banking Union or of the euro area countries, it is allowed in principle; yes, unless the national supervisory authority objects, for example, in the Netherlands or the ECB. This bank is already under European supervision, is fully subject to the supervisory framework and the rules and meets European capital requirements, so we do not have a bank here that is unknown to us or that would evade European supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u30	Icesave was part of the European Economic Area. We also thought that agreements had been made. It is not explicitly a question of banks that the ECB is going to supervise directly, that is clear. It's about the small banks. You could say that if the parent bank is in France and a branch is opened here, you somehow want a check saying it's allowed at some point. That was the case before, but nowadays you can actually automatically open a branch. I find that strange, because that seems to be a decline in relation to the situation before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u31	Yes, but it's all happening now under a common set of legislation on capital requirements, supervision, resolution, and just fill in what we've all dealt with. Then we don't have to test the same thing again. I also hope that many banks in the euro area will open a branch in the Netherlands. This is good for our jobs and for competition in the banking sector. That's exactly what we want. Under a much more robust umbrella with better capital requirements, strengthening supervision and so on, we will be able to alleviate licensing procedures within the euro area, and Mr Merkies will protest. I would say that this is one of the winning points of the Banking Union, so that a lot of these banks can also settle in the Netherlands and are all under supervision. For the banking licence and the statement of no objection, the ECB is always competent, except that the banking licence must be prepared by the national central bank, DNB, and submitted to the ECB. If he does not, he has actually refused the banking licence even before it reaches the ECB. If there's a statement of no objection, you can't. A national central bank cannot refuse the vvgb, for example to protect its own banks and to prevent foreign acquisitions. You know the examples; some would be very much in favour of having a test on them. Even if the Nederlandsche Bank refuses the vvgb, it must ultimately be submitted to the ECB for decision. The ECB shall decide on the statement of no objection. Mr Omtzigt asked what would happen if the ECB issued a licence and the Minister or the Netherlands Bank disagreed. In the new model, the ECB has the last word. It is no longer up to the Minister or the Dutch Bank to challenge or oppose that decision. DNB has a role in the lead path and may submit the draft decision to the ECB. DNB will be very influential in that process, but the ECB will ultimately decide. Then I come to a subject that Mr Koolmees and others have previously raised: the emergence of megabanks. His reasoning is that we now have a banking union and that there is therefore a larger market, with one set of rules and one supervisor and so on. So before you know it, banks are going to scale up and become too big to fail again, but now for that bigger market and that bigger supervisor and that bigger resolution fund. I have argued that risk is the most important approach to me. I'm just gonna say it again. So you don't just say it's against the law at the time of a merger. It's about ensuring that all banks are healthier and able to manage risks and bear risks when losses occur. It is about increasing the loss-bearing capacity of banks. This can be done by own funds, by buffers and so on. This is primarily the line through which we strengthen the sector. The Antonveneta Directive lays down criteria on the basis of which a declaration of no objection can be verified or refused. It is about the soundness of the acquiring party. What's the bank balance look like? What about fitness and reliability? It would be desirable to add a criterion for financial stability, not so much from the institute, the acquiring bank or the acquired bank, but at sector level. What does this do for the sector? What are the risks? What about the vulnerability? What "too big to fail" problem does this entail? That is what we are going to bring into the revision of the Antonveneta Directive which the Commission has already proposed. The evaluation had already started, but has been stopped earlier. We are going to ask the new Commission to take that path. We are considering whether we can introduce this criterion, as Mr Koolmees calls it. We have exchanged this with each other before. This is just a confirmation of my bet. I'll keep the Chamber informed. Several Members have spoken, in very different keys, about national headlines. Let me summarize: the Labour Party is in favour and the VVD is against it. Fortunately, in that situation, I can always count on the support of D66. In all seriousness: there are two themes that jump out, including the leverage ratio. I do not think that is a national headline, by the way. I repeat: there is no fixed minimum or maximum harmonisation. The minimum is currently 3%, but it has been agreed that this will be evaluated. It shall not be definitively adopted until 2017. There should be a European standard by 2018. It may then be maximum harmonisation. I believe that Mr Merkies asked: what will happen then? Maximum harmonisation - the name says it already means that it is. Mr Merkies then asked: what if the norm should be lowered again? That is not my expectation and certainly not my commitment. What-ifs are beyond my imagination. How will the ECB monitor these national arrangements? That question was actually asked by the Labour Party and the VVD. So it's about leverage ratio and rewards. As has been said, the current capital requirements framework allows Member States to adopt their own policy on leverage ratio in the coming years. DNB has now included this in the so-called multi-annual capital plans for individual banks. In it, the timetable is set to 2018. I've informed the Chamber about that, too. Under the SPS, the ECB is formally responsible for monitoring it. The ECB will also have to monitor this on the basis of national legislation. This will happen on several points, not only on these eye-catching points, but also on smaller things that simply are not yet covered by a single rulebook. If national legislation exists and prevails, the ECB will therefore also have to take responsibility for it as a supervisor. He's gonna have to work with that. The ECB will maintain the Dutch leverage ratio in this respect at least until 2018. The same question was asked about remuneration: how does the ECB deal with this? The ECB is still in the process of setting up its supervision on this point. However, he has indicated that monitoring of remuneration policies will be one of the priorities. Some prelude warnings have already come from the ECB offices. They mean that we will be extremely keen on compliance with the standards in the area of remuneration policy. To this end, national authorities still have powers. So there is no level playing field yet, I say to Mrs De Vries. I know she's disappointed about that. However, we are not the only ones who are sharper on parts, for example when it comes to bonuses. The ECB will monitor this as well. We have talked extensively about their enforcement during the treatment of the Compensation Act and that DNB will closely monitor it. An amendment by Mr Nijboer has been adopted which includes fines in Category 3. As far as I am concerned, enforcement will certainly be designed strictly. If there is more to be said about how the ECB will deal with remuneration policies and standards, or if there is anything new to report, I will inform the Court. The provisional state of play is that the ECB has indicated that this will be one of its priorities in the coming years. Mr Merkies asked another question about the appointment or dispatch of drivers and the checking of intended drivers. The review of intended directors of banks shall be carried out by the ECB for the significant banks. For the less significant banks, DNB does so, but it must always submit the draft decision to the ECB so that it can give an opinion. The ECB cannot do that either, and then the Dutch Bank is free to take a decision on it. When it comes to sending a driver and checking in that context, the ECB can do so with respect to directors of each bank. He can always ask for assistance from the Nederlandsche Bank. In the case of less significant banks, the Dutch Bank can also do so on its own authority. Here too, the Netherlands Bank must enable the ECB to express an opinion. If the ECB is not committed to this, the Dutch Bank can simply take the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u32	Is it true that the Dutch Bank cannot independently send directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u33	Not on your own at all. Even in the case of a small bank, the Netherlands Bank must enable the ECB to give an opinion. The ECB can then intervene and say that it does not agree. Assuming that the Dutch Bank will not do this lightly and will always support and review such a proposal, I do not expect the ECB to ride through it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u34	The Netherlands Bank will then be able to give an opinion to the ECB and you would indeed be able to expect the ECB to accept it. Will we also see the advice of the Dutch Bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u35	No, definitely not. This is about people. It is therefore a matter of confidential data on individuals. The Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM are now also doing fitness tests on directors of financial institutions and the Chamber is certainly not informed about this on a case-by-case basis. I believe that we have talked about macro numbers in the past, but if those numbers are small, they may even be fragile information. I come to a few separate issues and then to the licensing periods, for which several spokesmen have called for urgent attention. Mr Omtzigt asked for entry into or exit from the banking union and the euro area. What happens to a bank that is now under supervision in the Banking Union if a country leaves the euro area? Is the country itself responsible for that bank, or is the ECB still responsible for it? My answer is a little short. All euro area countries are part of the Banking Union; that is not voluntary. Countries from outside the euro area may join. I'm not ruling out that this is going to happen. There are countries that have already shown interest and have been very active in the decision-making process towards the Banking Union with that perspective. When countries leave the euro area, this is a legally extremely complex minefield. Some lawyers explain to me that you need to get out of the European Union first and then back in, so that you and passerby can leave the euro area. That's not an attractive perspective. If you leave the euro area, you do not necessarily have to leave the banking union, but you can. Provision has been made for this, for example for the way in which you then have to deal with your previous deposits into the resolution fund. Previously, the Chamber had changed how that works, because the Chamber wanted to know what would happen if the Netherlands ever wanted to leave the Banking Union: can we get our money out of the Resolution Fund again? For this purpose, general provisions are laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u36	There is a crucial difference between stepping out in a healthy economic situation, where a country steps out because it wants to, and stepping out in a stress situation, where a country is almost forced to leave and basically collapses the entire banking sector. Should the Member States that are still in the banking union actually take the hits on those banks, or should such a country automatically leave the banking union, or could it be forced to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u37	A country that has to leave the euro area once again, that is legally in itself extremely complex; it is your intention and my intention to prevent this from happening is not automatically out of the banking union. Non-euro countries may also be members of the Banking Union. However, this is all very speculative. I do not know what situation we are in with the banking sector. I do not know whether that country still wishes to comply with the rules and regulations of the Banking Union. I assume so, because otherwise it will of course end soon. Then that country will also have to get out of the resolution fund, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u38	I would ask the Minister to answer this question clearly once and for all. We are doing everything we can to prevent it, but this is a case in which a country changes to a currency other than that of the European Union, which is the euro. If that country steps out, there will probably be very heavy losses in parts of that country's banking sector. You can almost count that on your fingers. Then banks go...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u39	I can't answer more clearly than I did. There is therefore no one-to-one relationship between being a member of the euro area........................................................................................................................................................................................ In a few years' time, there may well be several countries which do not have a euro at all, but which have fully complied with all the requirements of the Banking Union: approximation of laws and regulations, supervision, transfer of powers to the ECB, capital requirements, buffering, full application of bail-in rules, resolution mechanism, deposit of money into the Resolution Fund and so on. Then you're just a member of the Banking Union. So then your banks will also be under the supervision of the ECB and the resolution powers of the resolution authority, up to and including in the final case, but Mr Omtzigt knows what the waterfall is like when drawing rights are drawn from the resolution fund. These rights do not all fall into the theoretical scenario of a country leaving the euro area. Those are really separate things. Of course, there may be contagion between banks and Member States in an extreme crisis situation, but you will not lose all your rights and you will not be outside the banking union if your country leaves the euro area in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u40	Are you going to a roundup?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u41	Yes. I have another question from Mr Omtzig about systemic crises. Is that what you're testing for? The ECB has recently applied stress testing to the banks' comprehensive assessment. There are different scenarios and different elements of crises. A further stress test may be redesigned. There will be other elements of conceivable crises. Then that's what they're testing for. It's not purely individual either. There are also elements that could cause a systemic crisis throughout the banking sector. That's in the stress testing system. By the way, with all the capital requirements, buffer requirements and leverage ratios, we have also strengthened the resilience of the banks in terms of system crises. Not everything we have done only sees problems in an individual bench. It is not the case that once the crisis in the banks becomes a sector crisis again, everything that has now been put down will no longer work. I'm very much fighting that image. Then there's the permit path. Mrs De Vries, Mr Nijboer, Mr Koolmees and others spoke about this. That's a tricky point. Where does it come from? We propose in the legislative proposal to extend the deadline for the Dutch Bank to deal with a banking licence. That is a strange signal, because with the Chamber we are having an ongoing debate on whether the permit, the time limit and its treatment can be simplified, in order to get more entrants and more competition. We now seem to be doing the opposite counter-intuitively. The explanation for this is that the Dutch Bank has long expressed this wish, because the legal deadline would not correspond to the time needed. Then the Dutch Bank will do things to stay within the law. For example, you get a long route in advance. Then a lot of information is already exchanged before the clock really starts running. Even then, conversations are already taking place. The clock is then turned on but now and then again stopped. But even so, once the clock has started to run, it may take up to 26 weeks. The deadline will not be doubled. The bill proposes going to 48 weeks. That is a major extension. It is still strange, however, that several speakers have pointed out this because we have just asked Actal to take a good look at this procedure. My proposal is this. Mrs De Vries has indicated that she is considering an amendment. If she makes such an amendment, I will not oppose it. We shall now take this aspect out of it. This is not necessarily the result of European legislation. I understand the Dutch Bank's desire to bring the deadline more into line with reality. With an amendment, that could now be removed. Then we await Actal's advice first. Maybe Actal will come up with some very good advice on how to simplify the deadlines and procedure. It could be. We then consider whether or not the legal deadline is appropriate. Maybe it can be shorter, but I don't know. So that would make more sense. I follow the reasoning of the Chamber. We are happy to provide technical assistance in relation to the amendment, because an amendment is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u42	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for that last remark. I have another question about the previous point, the system crisis, which Mr Omtzigt has referred to. I understand the Minister's reasoning. We just had a stress test and we just jumped through the hoop. We are, of course, having a discussion about TLAC and about further raising the buffers in the banks. One of the recurring issues is how stable that bail-inable capital is. We go to all kinds of new forms of capital on the balance sheet, but how stable is that now? I have also understood Mr Omtzigt's words in such a way that he wants to get a little more insight into the sensitivity of this type of system crisis, that is, when all banks are falling apart or the entire financial sector is drying up. We saw this in 2008 and 2009. Is that what's being looked at "deeper"? Is the Minister still able to respond to that? I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of TLAC. How stable is that TLAC system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u43	The interesting thing about TLAC's total loss-absorbing capacity is that you also legally ensure that there is enough bail-in material on the bank balance sheet and that not all investors are gone when a crisis occurs and you walk into that big bank to hit it and let it pay for the losses. That's the character of TLAC. It concerns pre-established, secured and legally required bail-in capital. That's the total loss absorption capacity. This is going to apply to global systemically important banks, the real big banks. In the Netherlands that is only ING at the moment. This is also relevant in relation to Mr Koolmees' point about megabanks. If two other Dutch banks were to merge, they would immediately fall under this TLAC regime, with therefore also heavier capital requirements. Then, as part of a resolution plan, they must immediately have more and in advance demonstrable capital on the balance sheet. The supervisor goes in there to see if there is enough legally established bail-in material on the balance sheet, which is not gone if I come in in the event of a crisis. That's the character of the TLAC. The beauty of it is that it becomes an international standard for all global systemically important banks. That's very valuable. The Netherlands has tried to establish a MREL in the BRRD, within the European framework for resolution. That is similar, but not quite the same definition. Even then, the banks must have at least "M' of MREL on their balance sheet, a quantity of capital that can be used. This is also laid down in the directive, but no standard has been laid down. The supervisor can further fill this out by bank. As far as I am concerned, that is a further step in the banking union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u44	Thank you. I note that there is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u45	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. We will indeed table an amendment for the licensing process, and if it can be supported by the Ministry, it is always a good thing. I would like to raise two more points. The Minister said that once every three years the SPS will be evaluated. We have also asked for such an evaluation, but I think the SPS is looking very closely at the ECB. As far as we are concerned, it is mainly about double supervision. What is the role of the AFM and what is the role of DNB? We are actually the only ones with a twin peaks model. We would like a specific action on this. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. We are pleased that he indicates that there will be no double supervision, but that is what we want to see in practice. It is also good that there will be a MoU to make those agreements between the AFM and the ECB. The switch determination has been made for DNB but not for the AFM. Why didn't that happen? Is the MoU a good substitute for that? Care about the level of supervision costs has not yet been fully taken away from us. We also see how this has happened in the Netherlands. We understand that there are a lot of consultative and consulting rounds with business. I'd still like to lance for the advisory panels one more time. Other forms have now been chosen, but I think that it would be a good option for the future to have more control over supervisory costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u46	Mr. Chairman. It was an important point that the Court of Auditors could have control. It could also be the General Court for us, but let us talk about the European Court of Auditors. The minister's gonna work for it. I am concerned that he is making this an essential condition. That's a little louder. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ECB cannot be independently audited for supervisory decisions, as the General Court could do in the Netherlands at DNB;]] [[Whereas independent control of supervisory decisions is necessary for a well-functioning system of banking supervision;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to call for a Treaty amendment giving the European Court of Auditors powers of control over the ECB such as the General Court of Auditors in the Netherlands on DNB, and to inform the Court of Auditors of the outcome before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Merkies and Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34049-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u47	What is also important is the law of national parliaments. I shall also table a motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that national Parliaments may request clarification from the ECB in writing, and may invite the members of the ECB's management for an exchange of views, but that the ECB is not obliged to do so;]] [[Whereas accountability of European banking supervision to national parliaments is of great importance in order to properly fulfil the task of co-legislator;]] [[calls on the government, at European level, to ensure that the right of national parliaments to speak to ECB members of directors is safeguarded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34049-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u48	About the leverage ratio, the minister said he didn't go into "what, if" scenarios. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be a "what, as a" scenario if he only arranges that in 2018 countries can always set a higher leverage ratio independently if they want to. We do not need a "what, as" scenario. Finally, something about the bank directors. I understand from the Minister that only the ECB can actually send them or stop them from being appointed. I find that an uncomfortable situation. I think it should also be possible for DNB to do so itself. I shall table the next motion for a resolution to that effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Nederlandsche Bank loses the power to send independent directors of banks or to stop the appointment of directors;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for DNB to retain this competence;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to ensure that national supervisors retain the power to send directors or to prevent the appointment of directors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34049-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u49	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answers. The CDA Group remains looking for an amendment. It is not for nothing that we have co-signed Mr Merkie's motion. We have heard in the Minister's reply that he too is looking for a way of giving the European Court of Auditors or the system of general auditors a possibility of supervision, if only because they can inform not only the Chamber but also the Minister, if he wants to know what is happening in the supervision of banks. We'll come back to TLAC on that stress test. I had a motion for a resolution, but the answer reassures me so much that I will hold off on that. We therefore hope that there will be a stress test covering the entire derivative position and bail-inable capital. The Minister himself says that the legislation is not perfect. We therefore expect additional legislation to be passed in Europe. We have already talked about the European Court of Auditors, but also about the fact that your supervisory and monetary policy is not as separate as it should be. I myself mentioned the point that those who pay the bill are those who are not under supervision, such as pension funds. The saver will pay for it eventually. Perhaps the Minister could give a time limit for this regulation to be amended in his view. The CDA Group is somewhat shocked by the answer to the question of exit from the euro area. If you then remain a member of the Banking Union, you are likely to empty the entire resolution fund at that time. Is there any way to prevent that? I sincerely hope that I am wrong on that point. Finally, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Banking Union could lead to a consolidation of European banks;]] [[Whereas banks which are "too big to fail" are one of the causes of the financial crisis and that new formation of megabanks should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to commit itself to a very strict policy when it comes to issuing a statement of no objection to bank mergers resulting in megabanks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34049-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u50	I also support Mr Koolmees' suggestion that safeguards should be included in the Antonveneta Directive. Banking mergers may be possible. Two smaller banks can easily become a bigger bank. So I don't see an absolute merger stop, but I hope we learned our lesson with megabanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u51	I see the Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u52	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions here and then another one follows. Mrs De Vries asked about the evaluation in three years' time. That is the evaluation that the European Commission is going to do. This is laid down in the directive. She actually says she wants to have a letter earlier on about the state of play and developments. I'd be happy to admit it. Then you'll just get a letter from your own minister. By then, of course, I will still be. I began to doubt it myself for a moment, but in two years it will still be. I will simply send a letter to the Chamber which contains the points for which Mr Merkie has asked attention, but also what we generally think of the way in which the banking union is developing. Mr Merkies asked another question about the AFM's switching function. In the first term, I missed it and in the second period, in fact. I hope that my officials have written it down, then perhaps another answer will come. Finally, Mr Merkies once again called for a permanent panel to keep the costs of supervision much more under critical scrutiny. There's no such panel. We knew that. The Dutch Bank had such a panel. I will bring it to the attention of the ECB. Perhaps we could turn around and invite the ECB to come and inform the Dutch Parliament about the way in which the ECB itself intends to control the costs of supervision, in order to prevent this becoming a growing mushroom. I'm getting to the motions. The first motion, tabled by Mr Merkies and Mr Omtzigt, on part No. 10, deals with the role of the European Court of Auditors. Firstly, I would like to say, perhaps in abundance, that I think that the European Parliament is an important player in monitoring the quality of the ECB's supervisory policy. I believe that the European Parliament is primarily in favour of this. It has powers to conduct investigations, up to and including surveys to test the policy. This can be done on the basis of case law or in a general sense. So we do not just have to rely on the European Court of Auditors. Having said that, we agree that the European Court of Auditors lacks some of the powers that the Court of Auditors has in the Netherlands and that it should still be given them. The motion calls for an amendment of the treaty. This is a difficult and difficult route, and I think it can be done simply by extending the competence in the banking union legislation and regulations, in particular the SPS. That would be a simpler route. If I am asked to argue for a treaty amendment and I have to inform the Chamber about its outcome before the summer, that is an impossible task and I must advise against the motion. That is what it says, so if this remains the request, I have to discourage the motion simply because of the lack of realism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u53	Maybe we can change the motion somehow. Can the Minister live with it if it is not laid down by a treaty change, but in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u54	Sure. A treaty change is not the route I would pursue. It can simply be done through the underlying regulations. That could be a change. But if Mr Merkies expects it to be settled before the summer, I must disappoint him. I can't commit to that. I can let him know before the summer what contacts we have had and how we think we can bring this to the fore or what progress we have made. That's how it stays on the agenda. If the motion is modified in such a way that the treaty amendment comes out and we understand each other well about the phrase 'before summer', I leave it to the Chamber to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u55	I am not under any illusions that it is all arranged for the summer. If the Minister makes a serious effort and lets us know the progress before the summer, we can come to an agreement as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u56	I'll tell you in full. Mr Merkies' motion on item No. 11 concerns the competence of national parliaments. Parliaments are now being sent the ECB's monitoring report and may ask for clarification in writing. They can also invite board members. Mr Merkies does not think that the latter is hard enough. He felt that it was a right to speak to the ECB board members and that this should be secured. I'd like to know if we have a problem here before I have to solve it. I have no indication that the ECB would not be willing to speak to national parliaments or committees of national parliaments. In fact, I support the fact that the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mrs Nouy, was in the Dutch Parliament once, but perhaps I am mistaken. I am now being whispered that she has not been here, but at least she is certainly prepared to do so. He spoke with a great deal of confidence, so I am not going to solve the problem that is now being blown into the air. I haven't seen it's a problem yet. I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u57	This surprises me, because the Minister of Finance said in the debate that has just taken place that this right is actually already there. I did not think I would have to table the motion at the time, but later I thought I would have to table the motion to confirm what the Minister of Finance has already said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u58	Strictly speaking, a parliament has the right to invite someone from the ECB to an exchange of views. If you are invited to an exchange of views by the Parliament of a parliamentary democracy, you will respond to that invitation. As President of the Eurogroup, I myself have been invited by the European Parliament. If such an invitation were not to be accepted, I would be very committed to ensuring that this is done. However, I do not want to cooperate in making this a point of conflict, because I think that is really unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u59	We have often invited parties, which then do not come, so it is not that unthinkable. I am in favour of getting it right at the beginning, so that we know for sure that we have that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u60	I'm dissuading the motion. Secondly, on the third motion by Mr Merkies, the motion on item No. 12. I have outlined the situation with regard to the appointment and forwarding of directors of banks. We are talking about a step-by-step power. At smaller banks, the Netherlands Bank is leading, but has to submit cases to the ECB. If you wish, it can intervene on that. If the ECB does not do so, DNB may make its own decision. Significant banks require an ECB decision. Mr Merkies does not want that. The question then arises: do we want a European banking union or not? If that is what we want, then we must also accept that the ECB is leading a number of supervisory decisions. Part of this is deciding on the suitability and reliability of directors of banks. In the motion in part No. 12 is, in fact, the signal that we are clinging to two thoughts. Mr Merkies says that he does want European supervision, but that it cannot be that the ECB is going to deal with it from now on. I do not follow that reasoning. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 12. The motion in part No. 13 deals with consolidation. The motion concerns the creation of very large banks. The original text in the recital of the motion was: 'that new formation of megabanks should be prevented for the time being', but the word 'for the time being' has now been deleted. I agree with that consideration in itself. We must avoid creating a new 'too big to fail' problem. The issuing of a declaration of no objection is now a competence of the ECB. It does so on the basis of laws and regulations that we in Europe establish with each other. These laws and regulations contain a number of criteria, but not the crucial point of the financial stability of the sector as a whole, so we need to address that point. That would be my route. I also think that this is a more precise route than asking the Dutch Government to commit itself to something on which it is strictly no longer competent. The statement of no objection is now issued by the ECB, on the basis of laws and regulations. I can share the consideration in the motion, but I cannot accept the request in the operative part of the motion. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 13, with the repeated commitment that I will be committed to putting that hook into the ongoing evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-25.u61	We shall vote later this week on the legislative proposal, on the motions for resolutions tabled and on the possible amendment tabled by Mrs De Vries. I thank the Minister, the official support, the MPs, the people in the gallery and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet.
