ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	I welcome the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. The same goes, of course, for the people in the Chamber and for the members of the Cabinet, who are present at the invitation of the Chamber for the debate on the attack in Paris. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It's gonna be a long debate. Fifteen people have signed up for this debate. Most group chairmen have six minutes' speaking time, but not every group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The terrorist attacks in France are an attack on our way of life, an attack on our freedom. The world is shocked, but can't be surprised. Due to the enormous immigration flows of recent decades, we are increasingly seeing in the West, in our own cities, the clash of civilizations that Professor Huntington wrote about twenty years ago. Freedom of expression, separation of church and state, equality of men and women, heterosexual and homosexual: they are values that do not exist within Islam or are merely flawed. Fortunately, many Muslims unite the western ideas of freedom with their beliefs of life by rejecting or interpreting certain passages in the Qur'an. However, the link between the massacres in Paris and the source from which they arise cannot be denied: the jihad is part of Islam. However, in his response to the attacks in Paris, Prime Minister Rutte did not use the word "islam." Our Prime Minister suffers from political correctness. To anyone who wonders whether such a jihadist attack can happen in the Netherlands, I say: it has already taken place ten years ago. Theo van Gogh was slaughtered in Amsterdam by a jihadist. The cabinet must invest heavily in our security. We want much more money to the police, to the Defense Department and to our intelligence services: in the long term, 6 billion. Now we want to double the budget for the AIVD, to pay with the non-legally mandatory funds for development aid. My group also wants the police, the military and the military to be much more visible than they are today, for example at stations, at government buildings and at Jewish institutions. They also need to be armed more heavily. Syrians should never return to our country. Is the cabinet finally ready to close the borders for returning jihadists? If Syrians manage to enter the Netherlands, they must be immediately in administrative detention. Is the Cabinet prepared, as in Australia and the United Kingdom, to create the opportunity to prevent the detention of recurring jihadists? We are also in favour of the closure of mosques calling for violence, for the expulsion of radical imams and for the cessation of foreign funding of Islamic institutions, as will happen in Austria. The cabinet must also re-establish border controls. This is also possible under the Schengen Borders Code. Finally, we want a strict immigration policy, following the Australian model. In short, the cabinet must protect our country as much as possible, not hindered by political correctness. The time for looking away is really over now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. The attacks in Paris last week were a brutal attack on the essential promise of free post-war Europe, the promise of a society in which you never had to be afraid of your origin, your faith, your orientation or your opinion. The kalashnikovs not only destroyed the lives of brave cartoonists, brave cops and innocent visitors of a supermarket. They also shot that promise. At least, they tried. In an equally barbaric and targeted attack on the carriers of freedom of speech and on Jewish fellow citizens, they tried to touch our society in the heart and break the foundations of our freedom. The first one worked. We've been hit, in the heart. But the second one's never gonna work. Because our freedom in all its vulnerability is much stronger than the hard steel bullets from an automatic rifle. Because we can overcome our individual fear and impotence with a common message, that we, of all origins and beliefs, stand together for a free and tolerant society. And because we don't take it as extremists and radicals who want to destroy it. That was the message of hundreds of thousands last Thursday at Dam Square in Amsterdam and in many other cities in the Netherlands. And it was the message of millions in the world's largest mass demonstration last Saturday in France. It voted hopefully, as did the words of our mayors Van der Laan and Aboutaleb. They found words to express the horror, but also the anger, of many of us. Aboutaleb spoke as an angry Muslim, and he wasn't the only one. Many, from organizations to individuals, spoke with a common message: stay away from our Islam. That was right and necessary. None of us, Muslim or non-Muslim, have to answer for atrocities that have not been committed by him or her. But it is necessary to take responsibility. It is good that many, Muslims and non-Muslims, do so, because we need all moderate forces now that fundamental freedoms are at stake. In addition to hopeful signals, there were also worrying or downright reprehensible consequences of the Paris attacks: the correcting, the threats, the language of war, the pointing to each other, the attacks on mosques. And there was fear. French Jews again openly talked about emigration to Israel. Cartoonists and columnists honestly said that they no longer dared to draw or write everything. Terror has spread divisions and fear. Much of that division and fear can be explained. But none of them should remain unanswered, because then the terrorists would win. As a society, we must therefore provide an answer to fear and division, with courage and solidarity. That requires a lot of us all, not least from the government, because the government has to respond to the fear by providing security. In addition, for our group, we do not want to engage in a political arms race of massive proposals, but we want to give the cabinet the task and space to ensure that our police, military and security services can do what is necessary. We discussed the legal powers associated with this earlier on 4 September. The Labour Party still supports the proposals that were made at the time. But this also applies to those who want to protect freedom with freedom-limiting measures must exercise great care, as the medicine kills the virus at the correct dosage, but in the event of an overdose the body. And our open, free democracy is a fragile body. The other assignment, keeping the unit, is at least as important and twice as difficult. For what is it tempting to look at each other in this situation and fall back into easy reflexes of "we" against "they." Note that there is indeed a we and a she, but not of the stereotypical or polarizing we and they along ethnic or religious divisions, in which some quickly flee. No, we, those are the people who cherish freedom, tolerance, progress, democracy. And there are many of them, of all religions, of all fondness, of all modes and of all ethnicities. They, they are those who despise and fight the cherished European values, sometimes even by force. That's a lot less, but there's too many of them. Anyone who wants to promote unity must do more than just speak binding words. It must also define that we feel more carefully and more clearly. Define dares. We must detach that from origin and religion and replace it with another we-feeling, a we-feeling based on essential core values such as freedom, tolerance, emancipation, progress and justice. And if we dare to define Dutch citizenship again in these core values, for which you can choose regardless of your origin or religion and where you can belong, we will build a common denominator that fits our open and inclusive society. We need to have that intrusive conversation with each other. Everywhere: at school, in the community center, in the church and in the mosque. That includes a mentality. The mentality of the school director who does not wait for the absenteeism officer after the holiday, but immediately jumps on the bike and visits students who do not appear at school. Or that neighborhood cop who addresses the girl who swaps her headscarf for a nikab and separates herself from her girlfriends. Why is that? I call on the Cabinet to continue vigorously with proposals to promote this intrusive dialogue in society and the mentality associated with it. This includes the deradicalisation programmes which disappeared regrettably during the previous cabinet period. I realize this is all a lot less tangible, but it's at least as important. Because only if we succeed in strengthening the connecting forces and creating a community of all those people of good will who cherish these core values, our core values, will we ensure that extremist forces cannot get a foothold. Only then can we build on the promise of freedom that is so dear to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	My compliments for this inspiring speech and in particular for the emphasis on prevention. I think that the Labour Party and the D66 are in total agreement on this, and I quote my own words on the race for repressive measures. But, of course, there are certain proposals; they have been coming back to us over the last few days. They are about, for example, taking away a passport without the intervention of the judge. Does the Labour Party think that a cabinet of which it is a member can come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	We had this discussion on 4 September, before the attacks were committed. However, we then had that discussion in the knowledge that such an attack could occur. Some said he'd come. Unfortunately, they soon got right. We held the discussion in that science, and then my party is also willing to look at everything that is possible within the limits of the rule of law. Mr Pechtold spoke of denaturalisation without the intervention of the judge. This indicates an administrative measure which could indeed become possible if the legislative proposal were to be adopted, but not without the relevant judicial test. That test doesn't come in advance. You can't, because you can't convict the person in question. He's in Syria doing the most horrible things there. In these circumstances, however, it seems to us to be justified, provided that it is possible to bring an action before the Dutch courts, so that the limits of the rule of law will always be preserved. It is a serious measure, but it is justified in the light of current times and looking at all travellers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	That is, of course, the question. If our rule of law is attacked, will you protect him by actually restricting him to the individual? Of course, every individual is responsible for his actions. Just the individual. But there is no way that a course of action to the courts from abroad is possible, so the appeal procedure referred to by Mr Samsom threatens to put the cabinet aside. That appeal procedure belongs in our rule of law, to every suspect and even to every perpetrator, as an integral part of it. I notice that Mr Samsom is afraid to draw the line there. Why not draw the line? Why continue to undermine our rule of law and do exactly what terrorists are trying to do to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	Any action you take in a repressive sense will affect the freedoms we all cherish. I pointed that out myself in my speech. Even putting down people with visible weapons for public buildings is affecting our freedoms. I don't know about you, but I feel less free the moment I walk through there. That's a great sacrifice, and you don't bring it lightly. The same applies to legal measures which affect citizens' freedoms. However, if Mr Pechtold says that there is no appeal from abroad, he is mistaken. There is indeed a possibility of a profession from abroad. There is also appeal possible by denaturalized or denaturalized Dutch. That is therefore guaranteed. The borders of the rule of law are our bottomline. The rule of law must remain in place, but, of course, under the circumstances, there is always a new balance between what instrument is appropriate and what is not. Fortunately, D66 has been involved in this for many years. We have already considered in the summer that we support this measure in principle. Its effects still have to be sent to us, and then, of course, we will look very carefully at the limits of the rule of law in the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. I'm incredibly angry. I'm incredibly angry. My group is, frankly, furious. Desperate that Islam has caused innocent victims again: Jews, Islam critics and innocent people. My group is also extremely angry because there are the same politically correct responses: the denial of Islam as the cause, and not making the Netherlands safer. I wonder how many more debates are needed. How many more attacks are there to take place? How many innocent people have to die before the quarter falls and before the cabinet and the majority of this Chamber wake up? It's crazy to freak out. I don't get it at all. That's why I'm really upset about that. That is not only because I am also on Al-Qaeda's hit list, but because it concerns the safety of the Netherlands and the safety of the Dutch. What is needed, and what is missing, is a good analysis of the cause. That's the right solution to all this terror. The cause is, of course, Islam, which has declared war on us for so long. That is the Islamisation of the free West, of the Netherlands, of Europe. Of course there are peaceful Muslims, but there is no peaceful Islam. Of course, not all Muslims are terrorists, but almost all terrorists today are Muslims. Anyone who still dares to deny that there is a connection between terror and Islam is insane. Islamization is a life-threatening danger. For decades, mass immigration has brought hundreds of thousands of people from a strange culture into Europe, into our country. Why are we importing all this shit? Islam brings hate and violence everywhere he goes. In all countries where Islam is strong, it is at the expense of freedom, freedom of expression, journalists, minorities, everyone. I am not even talking about terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State, Al-Qaeda, Al-Nusra and you name it. Islam simply does not belong to the Netherlands and is a danger to the Netherlands. We need to de-islamize. What is particularly shocking, apart from this analysis, is the total innocence of the anti-terrorist measures. I find it unimaginable that after all these years the cabinet will come up with measures that will cause the Netherlands more problems rather than less. How is it possible? I cannot explain to anyone in our country that jihad-goers who want to go to Syria to do the most terrible things there are being stopped. That's incredible, isn't it? Let them go, all of them! We'd rather lose them than be rich, wouldn't we? We do not do that, the cabinet does not do that and do not even put the people who stop it in prison, which means that there are currently time bombs on the streets of the Netherlands, Islam terrorists running free. That's impossible, isn't it? Let those people go, but don't ever let them go back. Take that passport away from them, cancel the Schengen Convention and return to border controls. There would be legislative proposals now that we still have not seen, but that should have been done ten years ago. Ten years ago. That is what the Netherlands deserved and that is what justifies the analysis. I don't understand why the cabinet is bringing back jihadgoers. How stupid can you be? Of the people who have returned, I believe three have been imprisoned. The rest are out on the street. It's crazy to freak out. From all those other Schengen countries too, minus the Netherlands there are 25 people who can just come to the Netherlands. Thousands of terrorists, according to Europol 5,000, can simply come to the Netherlands. What the hell are you doing? I don't speak Chinese, do I? We don't want these people to come to the Netherlands, do we? What I do not understand is that the army is deployed in Mali, is deployed in Afghanistan, while it should, of course, secure vital points here in the Netherlands such as stations, airports, shopping centres and streets. Yesterday, a large morning newspaper on the front page reported that Amsterdam is also a target. What are the military doing in Mali? Have them secure the country here. They're big words, but I mean it. Of course, the cabinet is not responsible for every attack, but as someone who could have been stopped from returning to the Netherlands, as someone who stopped the cabinet from going to Syria, if someone from another Schengen country comes to the Netherlands and commits an attack, then this cabinet has blood on its hands. And that's terrible to say. Mr. Prime Minister, never say you haven't been warned. I've told you a thousand times for ten years, and so have your predecessors. You will never, ever get away with the words "wir haben es niece kissed." You knew, and you've known for years. Make the right analysis, make the Netherlands safer, do not drive me and the Netherlands to despair, stop that incompetence. After all these years, this is no longer party politics, this is about the security of our country, about the security of our citizens. And the cabinet lets it go. Fortunately, the tide is turning in Europe and the Netherlands. The citizens of Europe are increasingly full of all those look-away people. In Germany, 40,000 people are on their feet one night to demonstrate against Islamization. Parties like the PVV are growing all over Europe. People have had enough of this Islamization, enough of those look-away of the political elite. Even if the Prime Minister doesn't want to listen to me, I'm telling him, you won't get that ghost back in the bottle. They are the people, not you. They will turn the tide and that is necessary, because enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	I shall begin with a personal remark. I can't imagine what it means to be on a death list next to the editor who was murdered last week. I hate it. I sympathise with Mr Wilders and I hope with all my heart that one day, soon, he will be able to live in a situation of freedom and security. Having said that, I also have a political question. Does Mr Wilders not see that what he has been doing here for ten minutes or six minutes is exactly what the terrorists are doing? Sow hatred, fear, and division. He does it with other weapons, with the word. That is why we are opposed to each other here. That's why I have the opportunity to ask you these questions. But I do expect an answer from you. Why do you believe that a strategy of fear, division and hatred or anger contributes in any way to solving this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	I'm sorry to say this, but a question like that can only come from a sick mind. What you say shows you have a sick mind. That you compare me to terrorists! Again, I do not want to talk about myself, but as you rightly said at the beginning, I am one of the victims of and I am not alone, but all of the Netherlands and many others. To compare myself with that, Mr Samsom, I think it is indeed good to speak through the chairman in such cases, because it is abject and ill. And I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	Before we end up in unpleasant conversations: the strategy is the same, but the weapons are completely different. Let it be clear that the comparison in that sense simply does not apply, but the strategy is the same. You recently quoted eagerly Martin Luther King. That was also the man who quite rightly told the world that you must fight darkness not with darkness, but with light. You could care about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	Sure. The Netherlands was once a country based on Judaism, Christianity and Humanism. That is the light of our culture! Black is the barbarism of Islam, and we must oppose it. It's not a clash of civilizations, it's a clash of civilization and barbarism. And your party has ensured that barbarism, that that culture has come to the Netherlands over the past decades. You're responsible for that, not me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	Before I give the floor to Mr Pechtold, I would like to point out, for the Acts, that it is wise to have the content in debates like this, where so many balls are involved, and not to add names that are not necessary to make your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	In his speech, Mr Wilders said that I blamed Islam in my own words. For me, it remains a problem that Mr Wilders makes the analysis that it is the fault of a religion, because that is Islam, and then in his same speaking time he says 'but there are of course Muslims who are benevolent, benevolent'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	It is individuals who make a choice to carry out certain actions on the basis of a political, ideological or religious conviction. Then you can't use the abstract "Islam is guilty" when you use it to outline the context that everyone who comes from it, is inspired by it or whatever, is also guilty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	All of them, all of them, Mr. Pechtold, base themselves on Islam. They all call out "allahoe akbar" when they cut off a head. They all rely on the prophet when they put a bullet in the head to a journalist. All of them use the Qur'an and avenge the prophet in their eyes when they do such a thing. All of them! In New York, in Mumbai, at Theo van Gogh in Amsterdam and last week in Paris. Everywhere. Don't touch me with "it has nothing to do with Islam." It's Islam! And, of course, that is what I have said, and I mean every word of "Muslim" is not every Muslim a terrorist. But right now, almost all terrorists in the Netherlands and in the world are Muslims, and you can't polish that away with whatever you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	Therefore, careful language and careful reasoning are important and it is important that Mr Wilders when he says "Islam is responsible," is purer and realizes that this or a religion from which you can draw inspiration in times of sadness, or that it is a religion with which idiotic extremists do other things. Mr Wilders' suggestion is that everyone is suspicious. My second question is very specific. Mr Wilders blames the cabinet for safety. Didn't D.O.D. get cut back when Wilders was in power? There was no money for the police or the D.A.'s office then either. The only thing Wilders came up with in that year was 500 officers for the animal police. Where's his credibility if he's pretending to have wisdom? When he could, he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	First, the first part of your comment. Mr. Pechtold, Islam is hate. Islam is violence. Islam is intolerance. Call me three countries in the world where the arrival of Islam has increased freedom of expression, where freedoms have generally been increased or less violence has occurred! The opposite is the case. Everywhere Islam is present and wherever Islam grows, it is at the expense of all freedoms and you see more violence. Then there is the second part of your question. Of course, it's not just about money. My point is precisely the whole time that we should have started closing the borders for even more people from immigration countries, from Islamic countries. We have to stop doing that! We must take their passports from terrorists and send them out of the country; that is what I have been calling for ten years! Denaturalize! We've been saying that for ten years, but it's not happening. We have to let terrorists go! The only way to solve the problem is with a bunch of money. You have to deal with the problem at the base, and that's Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr Wilders said that he was proud that he had been in politics on behalf of the PVV for ten years and pointed out the source of the danger and the cause of the danger, in his words. I would like to hear from Mr Wilders whether he can confirm that. I'd like to hear a yes or a no. According to Mr Wilders, the source of violence is Islam; yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yes-no questions are out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u22	I understand that it is painful for Mr Wilders to answer that. I have a document here that I've been studying for the past week. In 2011, Anders Breivik killed dozens of people in Norway and caused more than 100 wounded. In his manifesto of more than 1,000 pages he mentions the name of colleague Wilders 30 times. You are the cause of evil, Mr Wilders! If you are consistent and consistent, you will also say that you must fight yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr President, I do not have much to say after this nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u24	I understand that this is painful for Mr Wilders, but what he has done here in this Chamber over the past ten years is to preach hatred, which makes groups of people in this society feel like second-class citizens. Every time he does, I stand here to fight him in a democratic way, in the debate, in words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u25	Sure. It is especially painful to see you standing there, but that is your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u26	Before I give Mr Zijlstra the floor for an interruption, I ask the people in the public gallery not to show any signs of approval or disapproval. I thought you were done with your answer, Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u27	I'd said way too much already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u28	After the previous discussion, I would like to return to a sentence which Mr Wilders made in his speech. He said: we must de-islamize. I would like to hear from Mr Wilders what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u29	Less Islam in the Netherlands, that's de-islamizing! The cabinet is doing more Islam and keeping the borders open. Last year alone, 20,000 people came from Islamic countries. This means that in five years' time, one cabinet period, let us hope that this cabinet does not have its period perfectly, but still has 100,000 people. We don't want that. Enough is enough, that's my answer. Less Islam, less mosques, preferably none at all, no Islamic schools and stopping immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u30	I am trying to find out exactly what measures Mr Wilders is proposing, because then we will know what he wants. We have now had the raging lyrics, but what does he want? Close mosques, no mosques, no Islamic education and an immigration stop for people from Islamic countries, are those things? Are there any more? Can Mr Wilders be specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u31	There's so much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u32	It would be nice to hear what that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u33	No, Mr President, this is really an embarrassment for the group chairman of the largest party in the Netherlands. We have been mentioning the range of measures we have for ten years. What Mr Zijlstra has just mentioned is only part of the total. I'm not gonna name them all here. Read our election program! Look at the debates! We have only made proposals. In fact, this is about why we founded the Party for Freedom. And now, as a silly goose, Mr Zijlstra asks me what we have all proposed. Fuck you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u34	Quack, I'd like to say, Mr. Chairman. The point is that Mr Wilders always speaks great words, such as 'the Islamization'. There is often no concreteness to which he refers. I would like to know from Mr Wilders how, while preserving the freedoms of which he and his party, the party called the Party for Freedom, he claims to represent, while preserving the freedoms for which generations have fought in this country, to ensure that this society retains the essence of what that is. Freedom that all citizens in this country, all citizens, black or white, believer or non-believer, Muslim, Jew or Christian, have equal rights. Do you stand for it or do you not stand for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u35	It is precisely the cultural relays, such as Mr Zijlstra, that make our freedoms go to hell. With your attitude, you're gonna make sure the freedoms go to hell. You leave the borders open and ensure that the borders remain open and that 20,000 people from Islamic countries come to the Netherlands every year. You're even stopping the jihadists. Because of the attitude of the VVD we ensure that ultimately the Islamization of the Netherlands increases, that our freedom is only reduced more and that, if it continues, there will also be an attack in the Netherlands tomorrow. In order to prevent attacks and to ensure that the Netherlands is free again, that journalists can write freely, that cartoonists can publish freely, that women, homosexuals and all others can live freely in this country, we need one thing: less Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u36	Finally, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yes, Chairman, finally. This is without prejudice to the fact that the freedoms on which this country is founded and for which there has been a struggle are broader than that. This includes freedom of religion. I am the first to admit that there is a problem within Islam. I think there is hardly anyone in this Chamber who will fight that. This will have to be solved within Islam itself. If we say that we are fighting for freedoms in this country, we cannot violate them at the same time. That is what you are saying very clearly here. You say you're fighting for our freedom, and you do it by throwing them away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u38	If something destroys freedom in the Netherlands, then it is the attitude of people like Mr Zijlstra. The VVD is squandering our freedoms. Mr Zijlstra, Islam is more an ideology than a religion. Let me give you an example: Islam must not be abandoned. Thus Islam is similar to communism or fascism and not to Catholicism or Judaism. The moment you leave Islam, the moment you opt for apostasy, there is the death penalty. That's Islam! That's not religion. Islam looks like a religion, but it is an ideology, an evil, totalitarian ideology that you cannot abandon. Fighting this is the best recipe for freedom in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u39	I think it is the responsibility of all of us, especially now after the terrible attacks last week and no matter what we propose, to ensure that tensions in society do not increase, but decrease. I hope that this is what I expect Mr Wilders to agree with me. Is Mr Wilders ever thinking, for example on a rainy Sunday afternoon, and wondering what contribution he might make to reducing these tensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u40	I've been thinking about that for ten years. I founded the Party for Freedom ten years ago. I've been under continuous security for 10 years. I think about that every minute of my life. Who do you think you are to ask me if I ever think about it on a rainy Sunday? We've been keeping a consistent story here for ten years. That is the basis, the reason for which the Party for Freedom was founded. We fight for our freedom. Hence the word "freedom" in the name PVV. Islam and freedom do not go together. I say again: sure, not all Muslims are terrorists. That is certainly not the case. However, Islam is a great danger to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u41	I really do not understand why Mr Wilders is addressing me in such a high tone and I am asking who I do not think I am asking him a question. It is a very ordinary question that I ask myself and he also asks himself, but which apparently leads him to say the same thing for ten years, as he himself has just confirmed. Only he does so in an ever higher tone, with ever-increasing qualifications and ever harder personal attacks on anyone who dares to question his position and his position. That does not reflect much self-reflection, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u42	Do you know why that is, Madam President? Do you know why that is? I would very much like to explain that to you. That's because we had the murder of Theo van Gogh ten years ago. Even longer ago, there was 9/11, a day when thousands of innocent people were murdered. That's when I was standing here. It's been one of the reasons I left my old party. Then I was standing here keeping all that story. Hardly anyone here, especially the cabinet, would listen to me then. Afterwards, there was another attack, after attack, after attack with repeatedly politically correct reaction, after politically correct response, after politically correct response. And that pisses me off. That's what I started my story with. It pisses me off. We could have prevented it. We've always called it. It's almost out of party politics. It's about securing the Netherlands. No one listened. Then I do get angry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u43	I know that Mr Wilders is not waiting for my advice, but I would still suggest to him that he does not become more angry and angry and angry, but to wonder how, together with other parties in this Chamber, who are just as sad and angry about the senseless murders as he is, he can sometimes take a small step towards finding a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u44	It's not about asking if everyone's angry. Of course, everyone with a little common sense is upset about that horrible killing last week. The important thing is that we analyse what is at stake, and the important thing is that we take the right measures. My party called ten years ago, when Mrs Verdonk was a minister: we must denaturalise the terrorists, take their passports. A bill to that effect is still not in place. It's still not here. It could have happened ten years ago. We could have prevented things if we'd done it. If the cabinet listens to us tomorrow, I will sing a tone lower, but not a second earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u45	What Mr Wilders says is not new in itself. The only thing that is new is that for the first time he clearly acknowledges that he has been saying this for ten years, but he has actually achieved nothing in the last ten years. Mr Wilders, I understand your anger, but it must be directed at you. I now hear sounds from the PVV Group. If this goes too far, you need to talk to your group. During that period, you took part in a cabinet for two years, in which things could have been done. You brought down that cabinet yourself. If you continue in this way and fight with everyone here that's a method you're still standing here in ten years' time to be angry and you've achieved nothing. You might as well tell that to your own constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u46	No, that's not the case. I'm telling you, I've already ended my story with the fact that the times of the Bumas and the Ruttes are over. You're not gonna win. You can't put that ghost in the bottle anymore. You can play a bit of a smooth guy here and say "Wilders, what have you done" but you're going to lose it. The people in the country do not want Islamization, Mr Buma. The people of Europe do not want Islamization. It's not for nothing that my party is virtually in good shape right now. It's not for nothing that there are now 40,000 people in Dresden. It'll only be more there. It's not for nothing that people have had enough. Your Hague political game... you are a product of the Hague political game.. will no longer work. It won't work anymore. People have had enough, Mr. Buma. They've had enough of politicians like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Wilders was working here when I was about to go to college. The question of who knows The Hague better from the inside, he can answer for himself. Mr Wilders is confusing two things: the polls and his virtual size and the question of why he and I think we are all in politics: to get something done. I keep saying that Mr Wilders may deny that he has been calling here for ten years. The only cabinet he supported, he himself sent home and then wanted to send home all the following Cabinets. You'll be back there in ten years, you'll be pissed off and you won't make it. That is only one person to blame, and that is Mr Wilders himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u48	I do not know what Mr Buma is doing in ten years' time, but I am convinced that in the Netherlands and in the rest of Europe, the people who are fed up with Islamization will have influence. That may not always work here, with all parties like the CDA, as the Labour Party and if I know anything. That will not work tomorrow, because it might have been possible in ten years. But the PVV will grow. Parties like ours will grow. That political revolution will come. We shall see, Mr Buma, who is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u49	If you are listening for a very long time, you will be thinking for a very long time about what is now the best answer to Mr Wilders' speech. The whole Chamber is disgusted with extremism. The whole Chamber is convinced that we need to tackle this hard and take all the necessary measures. But I am also standing here to protect the freedom of all Dutch people. This also means that I have great difficulty with Mr Wilders putting away 1 million Dutch people with an Islamic background as potential terrorist. I refuse to be a part of it. In fact, I think it's very dangerous. This is putting people against each other in such a way that polarisation in society is getting worse, that hatred is going to be answered with hatred and that we will not succeed in understanding each other better and making the Netherlands a society. For this we will have to make a different analysis and take different measures than Mr Wilders proposes. I think this is a very dangerous situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u50	I do not know who whispered that interruption to Mr Roeper, but he can really do better. This really didn't look like shit. I have just said at the beginning of my story that I will be the last to put all Muslims on the same footing. I started by saying that not all Muslims are terrorists, but that almost all terrorists are Muslims. In other words, I did not say that all these million Muslims are suspected of terrorism. Don't put that in my mouth. Take care of me, even if you disagree with me, for what I said. What I have said is that Islam is not good and that wherever Islam is founded it is at the expense of the freedom you claim to defend. You don't do that. By looking the other way, you too, Mr Roemer, are throwing away our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr Wilders does, by depriving people of freedom, banning books, preferably imposing a tax on clothing and imposing a professional ban on people at Schiphol, people from Islamic countries, whatever their nature, regardless of who they are or how they behaved. This is categorically putting people in a corner they're not waiting for and they didn't ask for. That's dangerous. In doing so, you make them potential terrorists and threaten to turn them away from all the people they are going to find world alien at once. You're in on that. That's dangerous. You shouldn't do that. Fight with us with measures that promote integration in the Netherlands. Fight with us with measures to tackle social unrest. Get to work with us to make sure we stop foreign policy that encourages extremism. But don't put all people in one corner and certainly don't condemn all people in this way as a possible terrorist. Dangerous!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u52	Do you know what's dangerous? Dangerous parties are looking the other way, like the SP. Parties that cannot fail to open the borders even further. Parties like the SP, who literally lie in front of a police station when an asylum seeker is evicted from the country. Parties like the SP, who just want more immigration. Parties like the SP, who want to spend another billion more on development aid instead of security in the Netherlands. Those kinds of parties are a danger to the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr Wilders is only calling back. It's okay. He's about his own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u54	I don't think I've been screaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u55	He's not going to accept any of the proposals. It has been Mr Wilders himself who, as a minister in the cabinet, has made one austerity after another that runs counter to integration policy. Deradicalisation programmes: abolished. Integration policy: abolished. Segregation policy: abolished. Big cuts in social workshops, cuts in the state's attorney's office and the police. And then it's weird that things are going weird? Please look at yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u56	Deradicalisation subsidies: that's a nice word for Scrabble, but for the rest it's nothing at all. That's what the Cabinet does. The cabinet simply lets returned jihadgoers back in the Netherlands without apprehending them. And what do they get? They're getting such a deradicalization program. That's psychological counseling. They don't get caught and thrown in jail. No, they're getting psychological guidance. The sooner we lose that kind of subsidies, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u57	Not only do I see a very angry man, but I also see a very scared man. I understand how you feel when you're on a hit list, but isn't that exactly what terrorists want? They want you to get really scared. Will Mr Wilders give the terrorists this victory so that everyone gets more scared? Terrorism is hate-sowing, it's terrifying. Does Mr Wilders agree with me that if you sow even more fear and add to it, you will give the terrorists and terrorism what they want, namely a society based on distrust and fear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u58	I don't know where Mrs Thieme has been in recent years, but thousands of people have been murdered and slaughtered. Those are objective figures. That has nothing to do with fear. Of course, I am sometimes afraid, and more so for those who are not protected than for myself. That should be all of us. Thousands of people have been slaughtered, and we cannot accept that. We need to find out why. This is not done by Catholics in Europe, it is not done by Jews, it is not done by Buddhists. This is done by people in the name of Islam, by people calling "Allahoe akbar." Don't touch me with fear. I want to do something about it, and I want you to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u59	Terrorism is based on fear-sowing. The terrorists want society to fall apart and there is distrust and fear. This creates opportunities to suppress people. If Mr Wilders himself stirs up fear by turning people against each other even more, he helps to realize such a society. Then he's not fighting terrorism, but then he's just helping terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u60	From the first day that I founded the PVV, and before that, I do nothing but fight terrorism. So I can't do that much with that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u61	I do not want to respond to the comments about Catholics and Protestants. I'm gonna leave that part of history aside. I have another question. I believe that the purpose of this debate is to express unanimous condemnation and condemnation of the attacks and then to look soberly and persistently at what measures can be taken to achieve greater protection in our country. Doesn't Mr Wilders fail himself when he says that nothing has actually been achieved in all these ten years? For was it not he who tabled a motion in 2005 that said: would it not be possible in the case of terrorist crimes to also deprive the Netherlands? Isn't that just a motion that has been passed and a law that we now have? We can deprive the Netherlands of its status in the event of an irrevocable conviction for a terrorist offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u62	Of course, but Mr Van der Staaij must agree with me that it really is true that in your case I will not say 'godly' is terrible that a motion of 2005, from ten years ago, has not even become law? The legislative proposal that we need even more is the one that regulates that people can be deprived of their nationality by means of administrative measures immediately upon departure or participation in a jihadist organization, with a subsequent judicial review. After ten years, that is still in the drawer with the Minister of Justice. Of course, it's nice to have such a law on denaturalization in place, but he should have been there ten years ago. I cannot be happy as something we already wanted at the time, and indeed, I believe that the SGP Group still does not have that support at the time. I find that unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u63	Let's do a simple fact check. I would like to hear from the Minister of Security and Justice whether it is not just a law that has already entered into force in 2010. That happened a few years ago, if I remember correctly. I think the willingness is just there if we don't all go down the tree here. If we simply look at what good measures are, as I have always noticed with Mr Wilders in those same years, we can certainly talk about concrete and thought-out measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u64	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u65	Shouldn't we encourage each other to come up with more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u66	It's too little, too late. The most important thing is that this cabinet makes the wrong analysis, that the Chamber makes the wrong analysis, that they are talking about terrorists, of course, they are terrorists, but that they refuse to see the elephant that everyone sees, which is in the middle of the Chamber and is written with cow letters "Islamic." No one dares see it. Fortunately, a measure is also accepted once, and I admit it to Mr Van der Staaij, but it is far too little. It's almost nothing. I get very angry because the security of the Netherlands is and was wasted by this cabinet and many previous cabinets. The Dutch don't want that. The Dutch don't deserve that. I assure you, we are going to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u67	Madam President. The terror in Paris has caused horror throughout Europe. With their attacks on Charlie Hebdo and on the Jewish supermarket, no-one has touched our Western society in the heart. It is not the first time that Europe has been hit by extreme terror violence. It's not the last time. The question is not whether, but where and when a next attack will be carried out. It could be in our country. The terror of radical Islam is the greatest threat to our security right now. As far as we are concerned, this debate begins with the observation that we stand together for a free society and that we stand together for our democratic rule of law. The debate starts with that, but then the questions come. What are we doing as a politician to make these words come true? We have a lot to defend. Our continent is shaped by an ancient Jewish-Christian and humanist tradition. Freedom in it is an order to look to the nearest, to respect each other and to take responsibility for your actions. It's all these terrorists are fighting against. In this part of the world you may believe what you want, but the values that come from our Jewish-Christian tradition are unnegotiable. You must not abuse the freedom to undermine the rights of others. The recent terror is an attack on the democratic rule of law and in our way of living together. It is naive to say that it has nothing to do with Islam at all. Radicals cry out loudly that they proclaim true Islam. However, it is equally absurd to say that this is about Islam. The sound of peaceful, democratic and freedom-oriented Islam must prevail. It is essential that the radical sound be cut off, precisely in the wake of the terrible events in Paris. I was impressed by the wake organized by the Muslim community in Berlin, in the presence of the President and Chancellor, and broadcast live on German television. In the French newspapers there was a whole page with Muslims who were an example to the community, who express their disgust at the actions, standing next to the whole community: no to radical Islam. In the Netherlands we also see people like Ibrahim Wijbenga and Ahmed Aboutaleb taking positions. I have to say: then the discussion quickly focused on the question whether Aboutaleb was not a populist. It is necessary for the Muslim community at this time of uncertainty to dominate the sound of democracy and freedom. What can be done in Germany, what can be done in France, should also be possible here. Six months ago, the world was shocked by the barbaric violence of ISIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u68	I shall come back to that previous point. I sometimes skip De Telegraaf for a day, but yesterday I was immediately alert when I saw him, because Mr Buma had given an interview in it. The headline of the article was "Muslims must speak out." In fact, I concluded a little bit of what Mr Buma is saying, namely that he actually thinks that Muslim organisations in the Netherlands are speaking too little. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u70	That's what I thought. I was triggered by it. I think that's what it's called today and I've been looking into all the Muslim organizations in the Netherlands since last Wednesday. That's an incredibly long list. I am not going to list them all; I can give the list to Mr Buma. There are actually very few organisations that have not spoken out. If I say that, then perhaps Mr Buma will say: in Germany and France things are going well, and in the case of the Netherlands I may have made a bit of a fuss, because I recognise that Dutch Muslim organisations have also spoken to a great extent in the same way as we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u71	What matters to me is that this sense of commonality that must be present in society at the moment and which I believe is there is the most beautiful expression of events such as in Germany and on the websites. That would give real strength. Today, for example, I saw in The New York Times a call from Thomas Friedman, who wrote: what would it be nice if the demonstrations that have now been held in France were not held there but in the Muslim world, in the Arab world. That would be a sign of strength. That is what I am calling for. We cannot deny that Islam is under discussion here, that there is pressure and that there is uncertainty. I think it is most important to stress the joint nature of this. That's the call, the apple I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u72	Now Mr Buma is giving it a slightly different twist, with reference to a columnist from The New York Times, who says that it would be as good if there were also demonstrations in Islamic countries. However, my question and his interview yesterday concerned the Muslim community in the Netherlands. Mr Buma's statement is that he is still not making a sufficient statement. He says that if his faith were abused, he would have done his homework. That's pretty much what it says. The latter remains to be seen. I've never heard him talk about the Lord's Army in Central Africa, but that aside. My point is that there is almost no Islamic organisation in the Netherlands that has not yet expressed its opinion. So what does he want now, besides organising demonstrations in Islamic countries? We were talking about the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u73	I have just given examples of the countries around us. I hear and speak to a man like Ibrahim Wijbenga. He wonders: why aren't there more Muslims taking a stand with me? Then it is not just a comment from me. She goes wider: Muslims themselves want it to be there. Why do I say that? We know that Islam is part of this part of the world, and he remains. It is very important that, if we share this view, we agree that radical Islam must be combated, that sound also comes from the Muslim community. That is why I keep saying that the way things have been in Germany and France is an example of how things might be in the Netherlands. I think that's just an apple, a call that needs to be made or, more importantly, that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr Buma looks at France and Germany and points out that there are hundreds of thousands of people on the streets. In the Netherlands, he only talks about his party mate Ibrahim Wijbenga and the mayor of Rotterdam. First of all, I would like to advise Mr Buma to expand his network of Islamic friends. I have seen a lot of Muslims in the Netherlands who have distanced themselves from it. My question to Mr Buma is as follows. He's talking about a sense of commonality. In De Telegraaf he is using very rough language: Muslims must distance themselves from the events in France. Does he think that contributions to the commonality he seeks here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u75	I'd say read the interview. It says the same thing I'm saying right now. I do believe that this is the way I have said it, and that the Islamic community should also be able to speak out. It is so unusual that you are addressing me now, and I believe that it is much better for yourself to be broad, as in Germany, for example, the Muslim community, says: yes, we stand together for the rule of law. That's an apple. If you're attacking me on the fact that I am, you're really looking at the wrong guy. It must really be a feeling of us together. That should be the case with the demonstrations we've had, but I want to keep seeing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr Buma and I agree on this feeling of commonality. That is why I began by advising Mr Buma to expand his network of Islamic friends, of Muslim friends. There are indeed more who have spoken out against the events in Paris. We did that, too. We walked in The Hague. Has Mr Buma seen that about 40% of the participants here in The Hague were Muslims? At the same time, I would like to say that the appeal made by Mr Buma in De Telegraaf points that finger at that group of 1 million Muslims in the Netherlands. I do not think I have much more Islamic friends than Mr Buma's contribution to that commonality. In conclusion, I would ask Mr Buma to stop making such calls if he seeks to achieve that sense of commonality. That is not worthy of a Christian Democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u77	I wonder how Mr Kuzu knows what a Christian Democrat is worthy of. I think I'm more into that myself. My answer is next. Mr Kuzu should rather take it as an invitation when it is said here: join in, let everyone say so. He shouldn't be blaming someone else for wanting the Muslim community to participate. I think this is unbelievable. This really is a question that we as a society as a whole face. If Mr Kuzu immediately considers that to be some sort of attack, then he should consider how he himself understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u78	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u79	I was ready for the next part. This is about the fact that six months ago the world was shocked by the barbaric violence of IS. We then debated in the Chamber with Minister Opstelten about the approach of jihadists in the Netherlands. I must say that it was not the Minister's strong action at the time. He did make a number of commitments. Unfortunately, we have to note that, since then, little has been done with these commitments. The bill to speed up the removal of nationality has been on the Minister's desk since October. That's unacceptable. When will that answer finally come to the Chamber? During the debate in September, the Minister also made a proposal to withdraw nationality without a judicial conviction. To date, this proposal has never been achieved by the Chamber. The proposal to retain and exchange travel data had already been withdrawn by the Minister before the Chamber debate, because the coalition was not in the mood. Fortunately, Europe is picking it up now. Can the CDA trust that the Netherlands will actively and positively contribute to the establishment of the European arrangement proposed and that the cabinet will now do more to convince the coalition of this? I would like to receive an answer from the Minister. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister insists that the AIVD is big enough. That's what the Prime Minister said in 2012, after cutting out the entire foreign branch of the AIVD at the start of his cabinet. That was a mistake of the first order. Two years later, the service is still not at its old strength. Reorganisation, that was the main mission the cabinet gave the service to. That was irresponsible and incomprehensible. To this day, the AIVD must be supported by the police, as if it itself does not have enough to do. The AIVD needs to be expanded. My question to the cabinet is whether it is finally prepared to do so. If we really want to defend our democracy, we must also say no to imams who preach hatred, say no to young people who glorify violence and say no to any parties that preach the sharia or the overthrow of democracy. Those who glorify attacks in France, we have just seen a prison sentence. Recently, these days, a man who glorified the recent attacks in Paris was sentenced to prison. Why? Because we in France are aware of what we do not seem to be aware of here, namely that glorifying such acts is a stepping stone to the use of force. The cabinet has said several times: we do not want it. That is why the CDA will come up with its own proposal, based on what can be done in France at the moment: an initiative law to make the glorification of terrorist violence criminal in the Netherlands as well. Making our democracy resilient requires action, not just words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u80	Madam President. The Netherlands is shocked by the brutal and cowardly attacks in Paris. People fear attacks in the Netherlands and wonder how they can defend themselves now that the terror is so close. But people also fear that the differences between groups of people grow, between Muslims and non-Muslims, and that people of good will are set against each other. The day the news of the horrible murders came into Paris, I was in New York. There I was in front of the Statue of Liberty. The freedom that enlightens the world, the French described the Statue of Liberty when they gave it to the United States in 1886. The attack on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo is at the heart of our society, of our freedom and of our values. Our democracy cannot exist without the freedom to think, believe, write and draw whatever you want. Those who are committed to freedom must also dare to protect that freedom. Fighting terrorism cannot be without well-functioning secret services. How does the Prime Minister look back on the cuts in AIVD, which have lost a lot of knowledge and experience? Can he assure us that everything is now being done to restore sufficient capacity and skills? Cooperation between the security services needs to be improved. How could it happen that the terrorists in Paris travelled through Turkey to France without being arrested? Why was this crucial information not shared between the security services, between France and Turkey? When it comes to tackling terrorists, we can do a lot. The question is whether this will happen. Networks of jihadists can be mapped. The financing of jihadists must be stopped. What results have been achieved so far? More than 50 times his passports were taken, but what happened to these young people afterwards? What does the government do to deradicalize them? And how is it possible that mayors are holding hands because they don't know where to go with radicalised young people? How is it that aid workers tell us that there is no information available to them on what to do with radicalised young people? Where can they go and what will the Cabinet do to improve information support? Everyone has freedom of conscience and you're lucky to believe in our country what you want. You can confess your faith and go wherever you want. We will always defend those foundations. Extremists who, under the flag of Islam, attack our freedoms, we will fight. We must also fight the extremists who now declare 1 million Dutch terrorists possible and abuse the attack on freedom to turn people against each other. There are politicians in Europe, but also here, who are now talking about war. They use this attack to increase the contradictions in society and strengthen discrimination. Then what are we going to do? The SP expects the cabinet to do everything it can to improve security in the Netherlands. Isolate the extremists. Pick up the jihadist recruiter. Avoid the exodus of Dutch jihadist young people and work better together with other security services. Undermining the extremists by exposing who they are and what they do. Take salafistic organizations that encourage young people to turn away from our society. But that's not enough. We also need to stop cutting back on our rule of law. Provide more budget for parole, so that inmates get better guidance and programs to deradicalize. How is it possible that the government continues to make substantial cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the police? Are we not asking far too many of the people who have to protect us? But there's more. The more we allow young people to live in isolation from each other, the greater the mutual distrust and the smaller the awareness that we are one together. For years, Salafist organizations have been seen as a means of bringing problem young people back on the right path. Through Bureau Halt, The Hague's youngsters ended up at the As-Soennahmoskee. For years radical mosques have received subsidies for homework guidance. We will also have to make real progress in integration policy: together towards school, mixed neighbourhoods, better language learning and tackling discrimination and racism. We can prevent radicalisation if we take young people out of isolation in time. There is no denying that the increase in violent extremism is also linked to the failing foreign policy of the West. War, violence and the power vacuum in the Middle East have increased rather than reduced the scope for terrorism. Today I was reminded of Sultan, the 19-year-old boy from Maastricht who called himself Abu Abdullah al-Hollandi. He blew himself up in Baghdad at the end of December and took more than twenty innocent people to death. In the farewell film of Sultan we see not a tough warrior but a weak boy, a child who has sown death and destruction. A Limburg boy who was caught by a terrible ideology of hatred and violence. We must take all the measures necessary to secure our society, but we must also continue to think about how we can live in a society in which we lose sight of a boy like Sultan. We must keep in mind how people in our country can grow up so far away from our civilisation that they are able to commit such atrocities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals deeply sympathizes with the victims and survivors of the attacks in Paris. The fact that millions of people around the world went out to stand up for the free word and image was very impressive. Terrorism is terrifying. We re-experienced that last week. In addition to terrorism, we will also have to overcome fear. Three radicalised young men were able to mobilise 80,000 policemen with a handful of weapons and shock the world, as we saw in Paris. Or with a quick cooker full of scrap and explosives, as was the case before in Boston. The main purpose of terrorists is to sow fear and confusion, thus disrupting society and using this disruption to recruit new warriors. The reaction in Paris, which was summarized on the protest signs, "not afraid," was striking. Overcoming our fear is more likely than overcoming terrorism. The blood of the martyrs is the seed of terrorism. Turns out it's over and over again. Terrorism in this form can hardly be combated, other than by removing its breeding ground. In a society in which young people are derailed, radicalised and, in order to be able to do anything, there is no way to combat terrorism through ever-increasing repression. If the connective tissue of our society is affected, the cause will have to be removed. Symptom control isn't helping. We will have to find a solution to prevent Al-Qaeda and ISIS, with an annual budget of at least EUR 1 billion, from getting a grip on young people without opportunities, young people leaving school without qualifications or becoming unemployed. We must prevent young people from radicalising. We will have to restore the connective tissue of our society, instead of replacing it with a harness. The pavlov reaction, which calls for additional funding for intelligence services, more armed policemen, more repression and less privacy, is not a solution to the problems identified. On Radio 1, former director of the Military Intelligence and Security Service Pieter Cobelens answered the question of how to know what additional intelligence services need to be trusted by the government even a little if she says she wants to have all the data from all travelers, or want to tap people. Mr President, privacy is security. When we give up our privacy, we give up some of our security. Privacy offers us security and protects us from the State itself. For some time now, the cabinet has been preparing a legislative amendment that gives the police, among other things, the power to hack into a computer of someone who is not even a suspect. The police will have access to all the data. Manipulation of that data is not impossible. The cabinet already gives the police unprecedented opportunities and now wants to go even further. My group believes that there are sufficient powers that can be used more effectively. She agrees with all the experts who say that determining whether someone really wants something bad is mostly human work. What additional measures and exchange of information could be added to prevent an attack? What does the exchange of millions of data mean? Lone wolves will find their way. They don't even need guns for that. Restricting civil rights creates, at most, false security and false security. In France we have already seen three times that a car is used as a weapon to drive pedestrians to a crossroads. The men who committed the attacks in Paris were known to the French intelligence services, who, in any case, have more powers than the services here in the Netherlands. The Chamber rejected the Minister of Security and Justice's plan to store all passenger data. Now he wants to pursue this plan more or less by using an existing article of law that is essentially only intended to target suspects. Are we dealing here with a cabinet that, because it does not receive the support of the States-General, is prepared to exclude the States-General from this dossier as well? I'd like to hear a response. In the last few days, a lot of people have been walking around with signs saying they were Charlie. Many rulers and representatives of the people joined the choir "je suis Charlie." Anyone who now pleads for the restriction of privacy and the stepping up of repression must realise that this is precisely what terrorists want: to disrupt our society, to restrict our freedoms, to sow fear and uncertainty. You can't be much less Charlie than by restricting civil liberties. The Animal Party wants to know whether the Cabinet is willing to actively build a society in which there is more solidarity and solidarity, a society in which we learn to overcome our fears and cherish our freedom and in which young people do not derail, but get perspective. Humor and civilization are stronger than weapons and derailment. That is the belief that we as politicians should promote and defend with respect for everyone's beliefs, but on the basis that faith should always be allowed, but should never be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u82	Madam President. We must fight with each other a tough fight against terror. The terrible attacks in Paris show that again. Threat image came true. No longer far from us in Syria, Iraq or Nigeria, but close to home, in Paris. First the people of Charlie Hebdo, then the visitors of a Jewish supermarket. And we know that it could have happened in the Netherlands. The SGP sympathizes wholeheartedly with all the next of kin. Our prayer is that God gives them strength and comfort in their great sorrow. You don't have to be Charlie to firmly reject these attacks. This violence cannot, must not, we will never accept it. Of course, we do not all think the same about the limits to freedom of expression. This freedom is a great asset, but at the same time we, as SGP, have always stressed that not everything that is legally possible is wise. Freedom is no excuse to hurt unnecessarily. Law and morality set limits. We have had regular debates on this subject before in this Chamber. We would like to do that again later, but not today. Today is our core message: we do not allow the limits of our freedoms to be dictated by violence or intimidation, not by the law of the strongest, not by the greatest mouth or the shortest fuse. You fight differences with words and never with weapons. Don't you agree with what people say, write or sign? Speak to them, take them to court if necessary, but violence can and must never be the answer. This Parisian violence is out of the question. Unfortunately, the Jewish community also has to pay for it again. The horrible reality is that simply being Jewish can be reason for you to be murdered. That is precisely why our Jewish community is entitled to special protection in these times. I will go into some concrete measures to prevent and combat terrorism. Jihading to Syria and Iraq has a special appeal for certain groups in our society. We all agree that this must be fought vigorously. Also in recent work visits, we regularly receive signals that parents, schools and mosques can sometimes give insufficient evidence of their rebuttal against brainwashed radical young people. How can Muslim communities be encouraged to make more work of a strong substantive reply? Is the government prepared to look for ways to make the exit to a jihad area itself illegal, so that passports can be taken away? A motion has been tabled by the VVD on this matter. It would be further investigated. Has there been more clarity? I was talking about anti-Semitism. Many Jews no longer feel safe in Europe. Brussels is still fresh in our minds. Last year my group colleague, Mr Dijkgraaf, tabled a motion to tackle the growing anti-Semitism in the European context. What is actually happening at European level to ensure that Jews can continue to feel safe in every country? Jewish schools and synagogues in the Netherlands must be safe. Fortunately, this autumn, Minister Opstelten came up with money for this, but the cost of security, which weighs on the Jewish community, is still disproportionate. Does the Minister also work towards an agreement with the Jewish community on structural funding? Last year, at the request of the SGP, additional funds were allocated to AIVD and the Public Prosecutor to combat jihadism. Is it possible to raise that extra money for the D.A.'s office? If so, this year we can build on the fight against jihadism throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u83	Of course, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that it is the responsibility of the government to provide protection if there is an increased threat to Jewish prayer homes, synagogues, and Jewish schools. According to Mr Van der Staaij, does this also apply to the Muslims in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u84	Everyone in our country has the right to protection from violence. We know that Muslim radicals pay particular attention to the Jewish community, and that is why I have asked for special measures to be taken for this community. As far as I know, the violence of Muslim radicals is less directed towards the mosques in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u85	It is not the Muslim radicals who attack the prayer houses of Muslims, mosques, but Muslim haters. The events in Sweden are familiar with Mr Van der Staaij. After the terrible events in Paris, there have been 40 incidents at prayer houses of Muslims, mosques, in France. Does Mr Van der Staaij see a parallel between what he now argues in the chair and the threat of Muslim haters towards mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u86	It is certainly possible to seek revenge on mosques and the like in response to the terrorism of radical Muslims. Of course, I totally reject that. The texts I have just spoken apply to all sides. Violence is out of the question. If there are concrete threats or additional threats, it goes without saying that increased vigilance is necessary and necessary there too. Mr. Chairman. We already knew that the threat of attacks in Europe, and also in our country, is real. These attacks must not disturb us. We must not give in to intimidation or let ourselves fall apart, but we must do soberly and vigilantly whatever is necessary to protect our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr. Chairman. Last week's attacks in France shocked us. Brute terrorist violence against an editor of a satirical weekly, against police officers and against employees and customers of a Jewish supermarket is an unacceptable attack on freedoms. The sympathy of the Christian Union goes out to the relatives of the victims who have fallen, to the French people who have come into existence, to the Jewish community which in France for the first time since the Second World War on the shabbat could not make the hallway to the synagogue. The attacks in France are not isolated; they also affect our country. They determine us as a Western society in the fact that freedom is not self-evident, in the great concern about emerging jihadism and in the disturbing rapid radicalisation of young people. They show that violence can come very close, as we have seen before, including the terrible attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels last year, the murder of Theo van Gogh and the attack on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon in the US. They also determine us in the event of worrying developments in the world. There are more groups in the world that are being persecuted. For example, last week in her published ranking for 2015, Open Doors indicated that the persecution of Christians has never been so great. As a Christian Union, we stand for freedoms. We condemn any attack on these freedoms and we stand up for those who are being persecuted, in their own countries, France, Northern Iraq, Syria, Nigeria, South Sudan or anywhere else. Freedoms are worth protecting. What is the government doing to protect these freedoms in its own country? I would also like to ask this in the light of the cuts in security which the cabinet had so lightly decided. These are cuts on which the Christian Union has intervened with D66 and SGP on parts, including the planned cuts on the AIVD. This is a profit, but this time, with an increasing number of recurring jihadists, is asking for more investment in our intelligence and security services. I ask the Cabinet to make funds available for this. I also ask the cabinet about the protection of Jewish inhabitants of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr Slob's request for more money for the AIVD is important. I support that request and I hope that many in this Chamber will do so. This is a very serious request that we should have made in the cabinet. I feel a little bit coming up that the PvdA and the VVD say "no" and that nothing happens at the end. What can we do and what can Mr Slob do, especially from his position as a tolerant partner of this cabinet, to make real money for the General Intelligence and Security Service? It is really important to make this request work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr Buma says that nothing happens at the end, but if he has seen us for the past two years, but also for the years before, he has seen that we have been able to achieve results on a number of very essential elements. I just gave an example of that. I intend to give more space to our intelligence and security services at this time of increasing threats in order to be able to do their work on this issue, without compromising other activities, which must also continue. That's my call to the cabinet. The rulers have not yet replied. Let us continue the debate with them and use the opportunities available to achieve this important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u90	I would ask Mr Slob to broaden this slightly. I am very pleased with his story, because we are now standing here together to prevent us from giving people the security and protection we want to give. Let us look at this together. For example, there is still a big cut in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Van der Staaij has already tried to raise 20 million, but even if he did, 55 million will be left in 2015, while the Public Prosecutor's Office has already indicated that it is simply not doing it. Do you support my call to look together with the cabinet at how we can get rid of this austerity, given everything that is going on now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u91	It is nice to first see the CDA and then the SP come forward to see if we can fight austerity. I have already referred to what has happened over the past period. We did fight for that. It has already started with regard to the Public Prosecutor's Office. If there are opportunities to follow up on this point, let us do so in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u92	I see this as a confirmation and hope that the cabinet will take a serious look at this, because it has done so. The state's attorney's office has sent out the necessary signals. I understand that all of this is the outcome of the negotiations and I do not want to take anything away from it, but the fact is that there is a big cut in the budget. It's still at 75 million for this year. I really can't do that right now. I hope you will ask the Cabinet to consider how we can resolve this. Let us not fight each other, because this really cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u93	I have seen in the past period at least that the cabinet and the coalition have moved on a number of essential points. The cuts on the AIVD, for example, have largely been eliminated. Money's been made available to the state's attorney's office. In the end, extra money has also become available to make a start at least to close the crater that had been struck in the defence budget in the previous cabinet period. Let us take advantage of the opportunities that exist. We, as Christian Union, are always available for this. Mr. Chairman. I come to a point that concerns us very much, the protection of the Jewish inhabitants of our country. That's about 40,000. It's a small group, but it's a group that's under pressure. The recurring anti-Semitism is a great social evil. It is a daily charge against our society and the freedoms we stand for. Jewish institutions need to be so heavily secured that there are marechaussees at the door and there are high gates around the Jewish schools. As I heard today in a conversation with the Jewish community in The Hague, Jews sometimes wear bulletproof vests during the shabbat. That's what happens in this time of year. There is now more than ever fear of what is happening and what may still be happening. On this point, too, the Christian Union, together with D66 and the SGP, recently managed to make national money available for the protection of Jewish institutions. That was a start. Unfortunately, more is needed, because it is not enough. I urge the cabinet to enter into talks with the Jewish community to see what is still needed to achieve the level of protection needed, without disproportionate pressure on the Jewish community. I also ask the Cabinet to provide long-term security for the protection requested by CIDI this week. Now there is still too much uncertainty that the security given can suddenly be scaled down, as threatened last week for Jewish education. The attacks also unleashed something else in the Netherlands. I was happy about that. They unleashed a great consensus, including in their own country, in condemning terrorism and defending freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u94	I think Mr. Slob knows why I'm standing here. I would also like to ask Mr Slob the question I asked Mr Van der Staaij. Does he think it is necessary to also make money available for mosques, when there is a substantial threat towards mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yes. If there are threats, then a government should fulfil its responsibilities, the primary task of ensuring the safety of its citizens. The government may not make a distinction in the groups concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u96	It's good to hear that. In the last ten years 174 incidents of violence have taken place in the Netherlands around 475 mosques of the 475 mosques in the Netherlands. Is that enough reason for Mr Slob to increase the level of security for mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u97	If there is concrete evidence that it is necessary to increase the level of safety, then I assume that the level of security will be increased. I propose that this question be referred to the cabinet. However, this is something like kicking open an open door. We're supposed to be dealing with this. I would have stuck to that broad consensus, even last week, in condemning terrorism and defending freedoms. I was present at the meeting in Zwolle. My colleagues were present in Rotterdam, Amsterdam and Utrecht. That was heartwarming. It would be nice if we could hold on to that consensus and involve the people who are still standing on the sidelines. I ask the Cabinet to do everything in its power to do so. I'm gonna add something to this. Nothing justifies attacks on freedoms, even though the way freedoms are implemented can sometimes feel uncomfortable and even painful. I notice this also in myself when I am confronted with certain expressions of religious criticism, because they can touch me deeply in my conviction of and love for what is holy. I will always defend the freedom to let your heart speak and have your pen written or signs written. I will also always appeal to myself and others to use freedoms from the point of view of responsibility. If we disagree about this interpretation, we will indeed be talking to each other, on the understanding that tolerance hurts. I'm closing up. I stand here as a Christian politician, as a follower of him who once, when asked who he was, said: I am who I am. All the politicians of the Christian Union have only one desire: to serve society, to seek the good for the people around us and to strive for peace, justice and justice. We hope and pray that we will be able to deal with this in harmony and peace in our country and in our Parliament with the diversity that characterises our country. We hope that we can continue to deal with differences responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. The attack on the editorial staff of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, and then on a Jewish supermarket, is a horrible crime. These are attacks that only the terrorists themselves bear responsibility for. Nothing can justify such crimes; no political conviction, no ideology, no religion. Everything that is possible is done to prevent it and to protect people. Terrorism scares fear and terrorism is everywhere. In France, Canada, Australia, Syria, Iraq, Nigeria. Journalists, agents, people on the streets: anyone can be a victim, including in the Netherlands. That's what scares people. We understand that fear. However, there is nothing we can do but keep a cool head. It takes courage to stay in control of fear. We must stand up to those who abuse fear to turn people against each other and drive polarisation. That is why it is a good thing that we are having this debate today. I do not have the illusion that we will find the solution to eradicate terrorism or that, after today, integration will become one great success story. What is more, debates in this Chamber on integration tend to do little good in terms of integration. Integration is mostly: you go to school, you have a job and you abide by the law. In this debate, it is up to us, to politics, to give people's fears a place and to take them away. We remain resilient where possible and realistic where necessary, because safety is not feasible. Freedom, equality and fraternity; the values of the French Republic, the roots of the history of our democratic Europe, the basis of our free Western civilization. Brotherhood we've seen plenty in the last few days. Millions of people around the world, united in messages like "je suis Charlie" and "not on my behalf." Freedom is what we defend and what the terrorists attack. We stand before our freedoms, every time they are challenged: when blasphemy was brushed up by Minister Donner, when Gregory Nekschot was arrested and pulled out of the closet as a majesty to interfere with peaceful protesters. Freedom, brotherhood, and then that third value: equality. Is there not also a cause of the problem here and thus part of the solution? Equal treatment, not discrimination. It sounds so beautiful, but when you grow up in the banlieues of Paris, don't you get treated differently by definition, just because of your zip code or your last name? In this inequality there is a breeding ground for radicalism. The French Government rightly calls for extra attention to be paid to this in schools, in addition to all repression. What can we do? The cabinet believes sacredly in repression, in makeable security. However, action plans and incident policy could not have prevented the attacks in Paris. That is why my group is sticking to its previous course. We are committed to prevention, especially on well-equipped security services, at sufficient capacity in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is why we have been able to reverse previous cuts in the AIVD. Of course, European cooperation must be improved. Fortunately, everyone in this Chamber appreciates the importance of this. On behalf of the Netherlands, Minister Opstelten was present at the consultation in Paris. He came back with the message: a tooth. This minister has been there for four years, but only five months ago he announced 38 measures to combat the jihad. In this room his package turned out to be an empty shell, a toothless paper tiger. That's why the minister of a tooth was standing there with his mouth full of teeth. I ask the Minister the following questions after a question has been asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u99	If that's in order as far as you're concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u100	If that's allowed through the chairman, it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u101	....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you. Mr Pechtold is right to say that we must protect safety here and that the authorities are also needed to do so. It is rightly said that the cuts in AIVD have done more bad than good. Those cuts have rightly been reversed, although the damage has not yet been eliminated. However, he does not mention the cuts in the police and not the cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office. For this year's budget cut of 75 million is in the state's attorney's office, which it can't use. He didn't correct it in the budget. Is it an idea to move together now and tell the cabinet that this still needs to be restored?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u103	Rules of procedure, legal aid and ankle bracelets. All proposals from the duo on Justice that were in separate legislation and are not supported by D66. You can also see that, particularly in the case of the Public Prosecutor's Office, even yesterday in the First Chamber, my group is heading its own course. If it means having more money with the police, we always have to talk about it. However, I would first like to hear from the cabinet why it is not yet using the existing resources sufficiently, why action plans have been deleted from the past and why policemen are needed at the moment to fill in the places of expert AIVDs when it comes to the shadowing of returners. Those are the questions that lie before us today, regardless of the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u104	No, it's more than just asking questions now. You agreed to the budget without making any changes to it. You have agreed to 114 million cuts, including 75 million in the Public Prosecutor's Office for this year and the coming years. You have agreed to a budget cut of 260 million on the police, while half of the district agents are already being deployed to post. You've agreed to it. It's okay. However, now that we know what the situation is, I am asking for real action to be taken and for action to be taken. Otherwise, it's just asking questions, asking questions. You were and are in a position where you can do more, so I hope you will join me now to remove those cuts on the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office at least for this year. Are you in, or are you just gonna keep asking symbolic questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u105	I do not understand Mr Roemer's indignation. For example, his group did not vote against the health budget. It does mean that as an opposition party, an opposition party that tries to steer the cabinet, you take your chances. I have to say that I don't have to tell Mr Roemer, do I? We managed to push away from that position, making choices, that cut of a third from the AIVD. I have to say that we are voting against all this separate legislation, in which the Bitches and Bitches are still making excuses, the Minister and the State Secretary of Justice are in the process of undressing legal aid and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That oppositional role is more than clear. I do not need Mr Roemer to remind me of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u106	In this area we find each other on many fronts. D66 and the SP often share the same ideas regarding the rule of law and protection. That's why I'm calling you in particular. It must hurt you that the D.A.'s office is getting such a huge blow this year, that it's not really up to it. Not in the blaming atmosphere, but in the aid sphere: let us work together on how to get that off the table and send a signal to the cabinet that it must quickly come up with measures to get that cut off the table. Otherwise, we would really do to each other things we don't want to do to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u107	I see Mr Roemer's outstretched hand, and I hold it too. I refer not only to what we are doing here in the Lower House, but also to what even happened last night in the Upper House. There D66 came with its own motion on this subject and it will even support a motion from the somewhat rougher opposition group CDA. I had questions for the Minister. What points will the Minister take from the Paris talks? Since when is the international exchange of information not in order? What has he done with Europol's almost two-year-old warning? Is there or is there no link between the terrorists of Paris and people in the Netherlands? Why does the Minister deny it first and then have him investigate it? How much FTE does the AIVD need to guarantee waterproof surveillance? When are the new 30 fte fully usable at the AIVD? How many cops are doing AIVD work right now? Will the action programme be extended and, if not, what does the Minister mean with a tooth? When does he answer the October parliamentary questions about his first draft law on the taking away of nationality? How much longer does the Minister need to implement the nine new measures of the action programme? How many passports have been declared void, here and in the country of second nationality? What does the investigation into Schiphol's problems with stolen passports come up? What does the Minister want with the holiday records? Did he make promises in Paris against the wishes of the Chamber? We look forward to clear answers from the Minister. It may have been noted that I have not yet used the word "Islamic" in my contribution. It has to be now. Not because we want to, but because terrorists have established a relationship with Islam. Only they are responsible for this. Why would you suddenly ask your immigrant neighbor if he doesn't secretly sympathize with ISIS? Why all of a sudden talk about "modern Islam." We're not talking about moderate Catholics, are we? This was an attack by extremist, terrorist individuals who abuse Islam. That requires the adjectives and that alone, not that vast part for whom Islam is simply a religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. We have seen the attacks in Paris with horror, disgust and disbelief. These are crimes against humanity, against freedom, against tolerance. The call for and the exercise of violence cannot, must not and must not go against everything we believe in. Our sincere condolences go to the victims and the next of kin. These attacks must not lead to pointing fingers at innocent civilians. It's not about counting the number of headscarves at a demonstration. However, we are seeing an increasing trend of Muslim hatred in the Netherlands after the events. Dutch Muslims are attacked without any reason. Two of them were poured with beer at Amsterdam Centraal. A moslima was refused in public transport. Another one got spoiled on the street to her head and then another finger from someone who supposedly shot to the rescue. Scandalous! These attacks should not be a reason to hold a group of citizens responsible for these disgusting acts by throwing the compelling expectation that they should speak out. The many demonstrations that followed the horrific events made a fist against extremism. At a time when tolerance and tolerance seem to be dirty words, citizens rose up, in Paris, in Amsterdam, in Berlin, in Ramallah, but also here in The Hague. And what solutions does politics offer? Machine guns, military deployment, thought police. This does not solve the problem, and these parties know it. The parties that call this, do this to fish in Geert's pond. They try to catch their guppy while Wilders has already fished out the pond. In order to eradicate the problem of extremism in all its forms, we must focus on removing the breeding ground, on eliminating social backwardness, on fair sharing of wealth, on opportunities in the labour market, on stopping the criminalisation of groups and on combating discrimination and racism. The double measure cannot and must not become part of our rule of law. That is why we asked for the presence of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. The breeding ground is youth unemployment, hopelessness and the feeling that you do not count in this society. This minister received an additional 600 million for the fight against unemployment. He came up with plans, conducted research and started arguing with Muslim organizations that contribute to the deradicalisation of young people. That is why there is a specific question. What has Minister Asscher done in the past two years to remove the breeding ground of extremism and why has he still not succeeded? I'm rounding up. The citizen has risen in Paris, Amsterdam and Ramallah. It is now up to politics to make the right choices and thus to make a fist against all forms of extremism and to fight the breeding ground of extremism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. I have a minute and a half to speak. However, I think I should say a few words here. The most important event of the past 250 years is the French lighting. Unfortunately, France has been the scene of attacks by cowardly murderers. The enlightenment has made it possible for us to live in the free West in democratic constitutional states based on constitutions that guarantee our civil liberties. Fear should not be an incentive in our society not to dare say something because someone else would do something to you. Our rule of law must then protect the citizen. Let us therefore ensure that the rule of law is given the necessary means to protect its citizens from individuals who apparently still have to undergo their portion of relief. I therefore support concrete initiatives to mobilise more resources for our national intelligence services. Unfortunately, the lighting has not yet reached all parts of the world. Large parts of Africa and the Middle East sigh under corruption, favoritism, dictatorship or medieval barbarism. As long as I can, I will stand up for freedom and justice, whether for defenceless students at Columbine High School, for innocent Mexican students in a narco state, for kidnapped Nigerian girls, for convict Saudi women or for a Dutch parliamentarians who are being prosecuted for what he says as a politician, or for my own rights as an agnostic and humanist. I'm an optimist. There's always hope. I dare to trust that our society will prove resilient enough to eradicate radical elements and contribute to the fact that enlightenment will also reach those parts of the world that unfortunately still live in darkness. And no, my name's not Charlie, but Charlie should be able to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr. Chairman. As many have said, the attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris is an attack on the core values of free democracy, namely free thought and expression. Last Thursday, the Prime Minister spoke on Dam Square: "We will not be ruled by fear. We will not allow our freedom to be taken away." Right words, looking for a binding perspective. I also find today's letter from the Council of Moroccan Mosques in the Netherlands binding. They write that freedom and democracy are indispensable values for everyone, no matter what background anyone has. On that basis, they propose to fight terror with democracy and fear with freedom. Then I'll come to safety. It is an illusion to think that attacks can always be prevented, whether it be violence committed by jihadists, radical extremists or other mentally ill. It is our duty to minimise the chances of attacks, but within the limits of our rule of law. Free-minded politics means sticking to the rule of law, even if they are seriously violated. It means sticking to the privacy of free people. Because should the Netherlands turn into a police state full of cops with machine guns on every street corner? No, because that's exactly how we're gonna win. The most important thing is that we maintain an open climate in which the conversation prevails in freedom, in which fear does not reign and in which we do not let ourselves be silenced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mr. Chairman. The year was less than a week old when a bullet shower from kalashnikovs brutally ended the life of seventeen Parisians: ten artists and journalists who wanted to make our lives a bit more fun, and two agents who unfortunately had to be used earlier to protect their lives. The next day another cop happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. And another day, another four people in a grocery store, simply because they were Jewish. The attack on the lives of these Parisians was also an attack on our freedom, freedom of expression and freedom of religion, but that attack failed. Intimidation and brutal violence have made us, as in the last week, only more determined in the defence of our values. You're free to find what you want, believe what you want, be who you want and say what you want. We politicians have a great responsibility to ensure that the social tension, which calls for attacks like this understandably, does not escalate further. Politicians must be the performers of reason and reflection. We can spare war rhetoric as a pain in the tooth. Recently, when the reports of the US Congress on the war on terror were published, we were confronted with what that war on terror has brought us: torture, years of imprisonment without trial, Guantanamo Bay and an ever-expanding security device that is increasingly breaking into the privacy of more and more citizens. But let's not pretend it's all simple. Defending the rule of law and freedom of expression is never that. There's complacency lurking. Look how we stand for our freedom! We're all Charlie! And count the number of Heads of Government who walked along on Sunday to defend the right to mock, but who under no circumstances want to be the subject of mockery. Of course, I'm not referring to our Prime Minister. There is also a danger of double-heartedness: to be for freedom, but then to be your own freedom and not, for example, that of Muslims to profess their faith. For the sake of clarity, I am referring here to Mr Wilders and his party. Then there is the dilemma of democracy. The protection of freedoms by restricting them. Take a critical look at the proposals that are now being made: the reduction of nationalities, the exchange of passenger data, stricter border controls, the restriction of demonstration freedom, the application of war law. I understand the reflex. Everyone's first tendency is to come up with a solution to the question of how to prevent innocent citizens from becoming victims of unreasonable violence. But the uncomfortable truth is that we cannot protect freedom by restricting it, and we can never rule out the possibility that there will be an attack here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr Van Ojik calls taking passports a reflex, but he must recognise that taking passports is one of the most effective measures you can take.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u113	We have had the debate on the package of measures before. I said at that time about the various proposals made by the cabinet that I can imagine that, provided that this is done in accordance with the normal rules of the rule of law, it can be a solution, to put it bluntly. That's why I just talked about taking away nationality. I think that is a very bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u114	That surprises me, because even more effective than taking the passport, which means that you can no longer leave the country, is to take away nationality, which means that you can no longer stay here at all, because you can be declared undesirable. I would therefore ask Mr Van Ojik to give a positive thought to the withdrawal of nationality, especially in the case of terrorist violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u115	Yes, but that is exactly the difference between Mr Buma and myself. I believe that we must fight terrorism and violence worldwide and that this does not end at the borders of the Netherlands. As I have already argued in debates with the Minister of Security and Justice, in my opinion, it is in no way a solution to say: if you have committed terrorist acts, we will take away Dutch nationality. We say, in other words, that we don't really care what you do abroad, as long as you don't do it in the Netherlands. I find that a wrong reflex and also an ineffective reflex, because I don't think you can contain the violence at the borders of the Netherlands. So you have to take people who have committed crimes, bring them to justice and put them in jail and not take their nationality away so that they can commit their crimes abroad. Anyway, we seem to be thinking differently about that. Of course, we must do the best we can to avoid repetition as much as possible. Maybe the security forces can work differently and start looking more specifically for possible offenders. Maybe we can work together even more at European level. I also said in the debate on the measures taken by the cabinet that we really need to analyse the causes of the radicalisation that is causing terrorism. We also need to evaluate the measures we have already taken in the past. What does work, what doesn't work, and what might work counterproductively? The Minister for Security and Justice told me in the debate I believe at the beginning of October to send that analysis to the Chamber with his next report. I haven't been able to find much on that in the report we've been given. What's the reason for that? Can the Minister tell us when he is going to honour his commitment to see what works and what goes on in the minds of these people? We need to know what is going on in order to restore the link between risk groups and society. The small group we are concerned about has different motives for turning away from society. We need to know these motives. Residents of our country are losing touch with society and are given the opportunity to radicalise. We have to prevent that. We need to mobilise society to signal extremism as early as possible and to counter it. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? And how does he assess the same question in that context, I could ask the Minister for Social Affairs, who also has integration in his portfolio, the cuts in neighbourhood work in recent years, often at local level, in integration programmes and in welfare and migrant organisations? Is the cabinet prepared to map the scale and effects of these cuts and to propose to reverse those effects, which I assume are negative for the time being? In this debate, in this discussion, the tough language is not uncommon. GroenLinks continues to advocate a different approach. We must continue to look for what is going on in the minds of radicalising young people, opt for freedom of expression uncompromisingly and engage in intensive dialogue to prevent radicalisation. If that is not possible, we must at least make a timely statement and, of course, take a firm approach to those who are outside the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u116	Mr. Chairman. Let's face it, I'm confused. Of course I detest who doesn't? The events in Paris, but is it not too early to draw far-reaching conclusions from what we have heard about the attacks, especially from the media? What can we really do to prevent such attacks from happening here? Can we do that as a small country with open borders in our uppie? In protecting our society, we must, above all, look beyond our borders. The boundless European Union has many advantages, but we must realise that terrorists and jihad-goers also use them conveniently. Much has already been said, a lot of which I can join. The most important question is as far as 50PLUS is concerned: what exactly is the government doing at the moment and what does it intend to do to prevent radicalisation and terrorist attacks on people and their fundamental rights as much as possible? The Prime Minister writes about this in today's letter, but he does not give any insight into the measures to be taken. What preliminary conclusions are drawn from the attacks in Paris? How do we retain the distinctive openness of our society when taking new measures? How do measures to be taken relate to the desired privacy and data protection? Is it possible within the existing legal frameworks? How does the cabinet find a good balance in all this? More intensive cooperation between national intelligence, security and police services is essential. This also applies to improved external border surveillance and EU travel registration. That too is what the Prime Minister calls, but we would like to hear about a more concrete cabinet move. Like many other European security and justice ministers, our Justice Minister would like to create a database containing the travel data of air passengers, but do all those jihad passengers travel by air? There are numerous buses throughout Europe every day. From the Netherlands, a ticket to far in Eastern Europe was bought in this way. From there it is possible to travel again. Does the Minister also intend to consider the possibility of considering the travel of suspects who are not travelling by air? Will the Minister, if he does come up with plans for, I hope, a temporary registration, in addition to a flight register, also introduce other registers? Another concern for 50PLUS is the writing of names of jihadists and other suspicious persons. In the Netherlands alone, different writing methods are possible from languages with different characters than the most common Latin script in the West, such as Chinese, Hebrew and Arabic. We call on the Minister to advocate, internationally, the use of one internationally useful way of writing in the databases of personal name records, known as PNR data. This will prevent a person from appearing under different names on such lists and thus prevent the suspicious travel patterns to be discovered from becoming visible. Greater commitment to preventing radicalisation is needed, in addition to combating planned terrorist attacks as much as possible. Can the cabinet specify what will be the stakes on this issue? It is well known that the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security, Mr Schoof, is working on a so-called exit facility: guidance to get out of jihadism. We know that returning jihad fighters in Denmark receive a warm welcome: not automatically a prison sentence, but chances of a job or training. Only if proven to be criminally active will they be prosecuted. In all other cases jihadgoers are approached kindly and openly by the police. Can the Minister tell us whether the experience in Denmark is indeed as positive as certain media want us to believe? Can we imagine something like this at our exit facility, or does it only apply to those who have not yet left? I am confused, as I already know, about how simple consequences of what happened in Paris work out in the Netherlands. A school in Heemskerk removed at the request of Muslim students, so RTL News tells us, a Charlie Hebdoposter of a Muslim man kissing a cartoonist. Is a school like this going well or are we being too careful? In order to launch the debate, which does not seem to be self-evident in all schools, it must be possible to promote a message that fits so well with our Western achievements, namely that love is stronger than hate? I understand that the cabinet is not about the decision of one school in Heemskerk, but perhaps the Prime Minister can take something away from my confusion. He is a teacher and still teaches at a school with students from various cultures. Would he dare to use the poster to start a discussion, or is it appropriate under the current circumstances to be extra careful? Finally, I would like to receive a response from the Minister to the concerns of the Dutch Police Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr. Chairman. Many have already said it: the horrible images from Paris have made a deep impression. They were bloody and barbaric attacks on free speech representatives, on visitors to a Jewish supermarket and on an agent who was just walking on the street. They were unsavory attacks on our freedom, and so on all of us. They were attacks in our way of living together, our achievements, our freedoms. The attack on Charlie Hebdo made another impression, because it was an attack on freedom of speech. It is precisely the free word, the ability to criticize everything and everyone, that is essential for a free society. When journalists, columnists and cartoonists go into self-censorship, when they are afraid to publish certain things, that is the beginning of the end of our freedom. Then we will get more and more one-sided information, then we will no longer be able to express free opinion and then we will no longer be able to form our own opinion. We'll be at the mercy of those who still send information without knowing if it's true. Without the free word there is no counterpower, it is the oxygen of democracy. We're gonna need it. If it goes down, extremism wins. We can't let that happen. Generations for us have fought hard for our freedom. That freedom, that free Netherlands, I want to pass on to our children. This means that we must defend that freedom. That means we have to fight for it. That means we have to take off the gloves. To those who spread hatred and terror in our cities too, who want to abuse our freedom around her neck, I say: we will not allow ourselves to be taken away from that freedom. We will defend our freedom by hand and tooth, not only in our country, but also outside. For that, we will do what is necessary. We will do so by securing, wherever possible, the returnee and the right of war, by taking away their nationality, by taking away jihad's benefits, by withdrawing residence permits, by banning entry, by dealing with jihad rounders. The cabinet has picked this up and proposed further measures. The cabinet has not waited for an attack, but has acted before. And yet that will not be enough to take away all the risks. The threat level in our country is not in vain. This means that we must realise that we cannot prevent everything. We live in a new reality. No matter how much we do and how vigilant we are, an attack can take place here too. The attacks in Paris also teach us that we need to look at how we protect people and objects. Charlie Hebdo was secured again, but the agents on the scene didn't stand a chance against jihadists with machine guns. That is why I ask the cabinet whether it shares the VVD's view that greater armament is needed if we are to secure people or objects because of a terrorist threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u118	I am a little uncomfortable with the fact that the VVD, if I understand correctly, either immediately after an attack or only resorts to what the cabinet presented shortly after the summer and defended here extremely weakly because it was ill-thought-out, or suggests that more needs to be done. I'll take out two terms. The first one is "war law," but then what exactly? The second is "machine guns for police officers," while now research shows that even practicing the fist gun is lagging behind many cops. You don't want to know what happens when they start using automatic weapons. What's new now? Or is it just the language?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u119	I immediately acknowledge that the VVD has wanted this for a long time. We didn't wait for an attack. Our spokesperson, Mr Dijkhoff, has already put forward proposals in this direction in 2013 and 2014. We are also making these proposals now, because we considered it important and believe that we use all the means within the limits of the rule of law to combat terrorism. Terrorists who join a terrorist army, you may call it, 'We must judge them as if they have gone into a foreign military force'. After all, they are actually using a war situation. In the last century, it was countries that attacked us and tried to overthrow our systems. Nazi Germany attacked the Netherlands and there was freedom. People who entered that military service rightly lost their nationality, automatically. There was no judge involved. And if you join a terrorist army, you'll lose your nationality. As far as the VVD is concerned, it was and is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u120	As far as the VVD is concerned, Mr Zijlstra says. But it's a week after attacks. The VVD is the largest government party, which for four years has been supplying all rulers of Defense and of Security and Justice. Announcement means people think that such a big government party is gonna do something with it. The facts are that the VVD cut $1 billion in Defense. The facts are that the VVD wanted to return the AIVD by a third. The facts are that the Public Prosecutor's Office, if it's up to the VVD, is still being calved. The fact is that the agents who are at the door now feel that Mr Zijlstra is going to arm them with a machine gun. People's disappointment if it doesn't happen again, feeds the further fear. I believe that a politician from the largest party, who stands here, should not just fire a minister, who has the legislative proposals on nationality on his desk. Since October! The Chamber has already replied! The Minister won't get off with it. The Minister uses the money for police in other places. That's not what we're doing this debate with, is it? That is my general question, but I would like Mr Zijlstra to answer the underlying questions as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u121	I think the debate could use some spirit in that respect. Let us be clear that it is precisely what Mr Pechtold says. It is not a question of being empty words; it is a question of this being done. That is also the essence of what I am saying here. I'm not saying anything here just to use a word. I do not do that for an attack and not after an attack; Mr Pechtold cannot deny us consistency. It's all about us realizing this. I've talked to a lot of cops. I'm the son of a policeman, and I know damn well what lives among them. I cannot imagine that Mr Pechtold has not seen that video of a police officer who has to take on a gun alone against a terrorist with a machine gun. Mr. Pechtold says those cops feel happy. No, they don't feel happy at all. This discussion also plays among police officers. And yes, that will mean they need to be trained. Of course we don't give them a machine gun and we say good luck with it. Of course not. They need training. If cops can't do it, we're gonna bet the marshalssee. 'Cause some of us won't be able to do it. It is ludicrous: we send military with machine guns if we scale up at threat level and we secure stations and airports because of terrorist threats, but if the threat level is lower and specific objects or persons need to be protected because of a terrorist threat, Mr Pechtold says we can do it with guns. Well, not according to the VVD. I'm not gonna do that to those cops. I'm not gonna do that to the people in that building, or the people who need security as a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u122	Neither in terms of timing nor credibility is the VVD entitled to this. I mentioned all the cuts. However, I would also mention the fact that neither the chairman of the VVD nor I are experts in the field of arms. We're not saying exactly what military people in Mali need, are we? This is a policy of testimony which Mr Zijlstra will not be able to deliver tomorrow. With that, he gives the same police officer or the security guard of politicians who are not immediately using a machine gun, the feeling that he has offered them something. Let's stick to the facts. Wilders says all terrorism comes from Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u123	Liar!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u124	Yes, I do. Europol shows that 99.3% of the attacks in Europe have not come from Islam over the past eight years. In fact, 98% was not religious. Now this attack has been committed. We're so disgusted. And what's the VVD coming with? With the right to war. However, the underlying idea of taking away nationality and passport lies on the Minister's desk, which does not obtain it. The VVD comes with machine guns for cops. The Minister hasn't had the money for that for years thanks to the VVD, and those machine guns won't be there tomorrow either. Mr Zijlstra is not an expert on weapons. As far as I am concerned, he should not use the debate for short rhetoric, but to deprive people of fear. That's not what you do with machine guns for "what were they?" a supermarket, or an editorial office. Add airports, parliament buildings, government buildings, schools and prayer rooms, and the whole of the Netherlands will soon be guarded by machine guns. That's not a safety that can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u125	Here's what's important. If we believe, even now, that people or buildings should be protected because there is a threat of a terrorist attack, Paris will teach us a lesson. If you look at that footage, you'll see that the cops there weren't gonna stand a chance. I think it is the responsibility of every politician to have an opinion on this. Of course I'm not an expert on weapons. I don't know what kind of gun we're gonna give them. However, I do not think you need to have studied to see that the current armament is inadequate. All you have to do is look at the footage. If you run away from that, you run away from that responsibility as a politician. I'm not gonna do that. The arms decision governing the arms of the police is based on a law of this Chamber. That is a power of a politician, as the Minister said. The Minister is controlled by the Chamber. Do you mind that we have an opinion on this, particularly in view of the situation in France?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u126	Since Mr Zijlstra is addressing me specifically, I would say that each group is naturally prepared to deploy police forces. We support that. We call it the Marechaussee and others. That happens at Schiphol Airport, and it happens everywhere. Where I'm now in the discussion at the VVD, it's because she's screaming about automatic weapons for police officers. She can't do that right now. The police summit says it's just the question if that works, and from Paris the VVD makes the suggestion if there would be a contradiction. Of course, guards are the first victims. When they arrive with kalashnikovs, however, those agents will have equal problems. They can still be the first victims. Because the bullets are flying over the Square or right through the supermarket, the damage will be much greater. That discussion is not part of this debate, it is left to experts. You're not just gonna say: give them machine guns; look at us again be firm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u127	That has nothing to do with "Look at us being firm." The VVD looks horrified at what happened. If we are trying to secure institutions or individuals because of the threat, for example because they have expressed their free opinion, then we must ensure that those who have to do so, whether they are police officers or military officers, are sufficiently armed. That's what you have to do for the one who needs to be protected. You have to make sure he or she is safe. We see that responsibility. Obviously we disagree on this, but I find some of it and I will continue to agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u128	I am still puzzled with the word 'war law' which Mr Zijlstra used. We have a code of war criminal law in the Netherlands. This means that we can establish special courts and that we can impose certain penalties. We can only do this if the Netherlands is at war, if we are in civil war or if we are involved in an international conflict. The cabinet insists very clearly that these three things are not on the agenda. What does Mr Zijlstra mean when he says war law must be applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u129	I've just tried, but apparently it wasn't enough. Look at two situations in our legal system. If a person enters foreign military service, he or she shall automatically lose his or her nationality. For that there is a proposal from the cabinet. As far as I am concerned, it can be dealt with quickly. It is not thanks to the cabinet that this has not yet been done, but to parties in this house who have to ensure that there is a majority for it. The moment we do this, we act as if we are in a war situation. That's how I see it. Whether you call it conflict or struggle, we have a huge conflict with Islamic jihadists. We have this situation, and so we must treat them as we treat people who go into foreign military service. We also know the International Crimes Act. These are war crimes. That can happen too. Let me give you the example of what happened to yezidis. If Dutch jihadis are involved, then you have to bring them to justice in that way. You just have to do that to show how seriously we take such great crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u130	This needs to be more precise. Mr Zijlstra has gotten all the newspapers full of that word 'war law', but this is not a war law, but the normal Dutch Code of Criminal Law, which does say that you cannot enter foreign military service, that since 2005 your nationality can be taken away if you participate in foreign terrorist groups. Fortunately, all these things are in the Code of Criminal Law. This is not a right of war at all; this is the daily applicable right that fortunately offers opportunities. I would like Mr Zijlstra to use the word that goes with it and acknowledge that it is not a right of war.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u131	I've used the same words over and over again. I'm not saying anything here other than outside this building. When jihadis enter the service of what I call a terrorist army, you must judge them as if they have entered the service of a foreign military force. If they commit war crimes, they must be tried in that way. In that context, I place it. I admit immediately that war law is much wider. That's the nuance I put in. Then you're talking about emergency situations and that sort of thing. Well, that's not the issue here. Let that be clear. Now that we are in such a serious conflict, a conflict with extremists who have declared war on us, you can treat them that way. In that context, I said it and I keep saying it. If Mr Buma wants to hear from me that I want to apply the entire law of war here, I say no. Let that be clear, too. We're not going to declare a state of emergency here. That goes too far for me, because we are going to fall into the trap they are trying to impose on us, which is to take away our freedoms. We're not gonna be part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u132	We started with Mr Zijlstra who said: we are going to apply the law of war. And we will end with the application of the current Code of Criminal Law in a way that I believe Mr Van Ojik could still support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u133	I doubt that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u134	I think Mr Van Ojik should make a statement on this himself. I think that would be wise, but I give the floor to Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u135	When I heard the law of war coming along, I was a little surprised because it was not mentioned earlier in a discussion such as that on the jihadism action plan. In particular, Article 1 (2) of the War Penalty Act provides for the possibility of imposing certain penalties in non-state conflicts. Only the punishment that Mr Zijlstra calls it, the taking away of passports, is not in that law. The only thing it says is that there can be more severe punishment than is possible under the Code of Criminal Law. To be honest, I find it interesting that there is already a legal possibility to act harder in specific situations, including in the context of jihadism and the crimes involved. I would like to see it sorted out, but with the right explanation and therefore not with the taking of passports as an example. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u136	It refers to all the legal possibilities we have. I sincerely say that we are not going to declare a state of emergency. Let that be clear. I didn't raise that suggestion either, by the way. We must seize all the possibilities that we have, including those of war law, because these extreme jihadists have actually declared war on us. And we fight back!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u137	That possibility is already present in the War Crimes Act. Furthermore, there is indeed room for the cabinet to find its own application. It is a new idea and it has not been discussed in the context of the action plan, but as far as I am concerned it is negotiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u138	I interrupt you, Mr Zijlstra. You yourself invited Mr Van Ojik, and that is why I am giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u139	Well, I think Mr Buma did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr. Van Ojik, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u141	If I have a bone to pick with Mr Buma, I will do so on another occasion. I don't understand exactly what the VVD wants. We have had the International Crimes Act since 2003, which allows the judge to prosecute serious crimes abroad and to punish them. That is nothing new, unless Mr Zijlstra wishes to interfere in the course of justice by having judges appeal to it more often. At the same time, the VVD says that you must take the nationality of people who have committed crimes abroad. It's either one or the other. Either you say "use the existing legislation" and then there's really nothing new under the sun or you say "take people's Dutch nationality off" and then the Dutch judge isn't about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u142	Different degrees are possible. There are people who are actually taking part in the fight, committing war crimes, and it is true that we can deal with them now. However, there are also people who support those fighters and we must do something about them. I agree with the speeches in which it was said that there are two sides to this. On the one hand, you have to look for the ground for radicalisation and tackle it, and on the other hand, you have to go hard on jihadists with everything that is legally possible, within normal law and also, where possible, within the law of war, because we are going to defend our freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u143	The Netherlands has one form of war law and that is the International Crimes Act. That law already gives the judge the opportunity to act against all kinds of international crimes. That seems good and sensible to me, and it is more necessary than ever for judges to do so, but that is not our concern. That is precisely what the judiciary is for. At the same time, the VVD advocates taking away the nationality of people who commit such crimes abroad. I'm against that because you have to arrest and bring those people to justice. I really don't understand. Are we going to take away people's nationality so that they can move freely abroad or are we going to tell judges that they should apply a law that is already there more often? What does the VVD want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u144	The VVD wants both, because all cases are not one-on-one the same. We must take away their nationality if they are to serve as a jihadist in the service of a terrorist army, I call IS, Al-Nusra, Al-Qaeda, and what we do not already have and actually fight our freedoms and our society. They do that just like states used to do. You can have whole discussions about this and we have had them here before, in my opinion in October: can this be done and is it within the limits of the rule of law? Well, I think this is hugely within the limits of the rule of law, because we can do this already for people who are in the service of a country that is attacking our freedoms. Wouldn't it be very strange if, suddenly, it was legally impossible to take away a person who attacked our country in the service of a terrorist army? As far as we are concerned, that is the battle we must make in this century. The world has changed and we no longer have old-fashioned conflicts between states, but this kind of complicated conflicts. That's where you need to adjust your instruments. As far as we're concerned, you're gonna have to take someone's nationality if he's in a terrorist army.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u145	The discussion to which Mr Zijlstra refers was not so much about whether it is possible, but about whether it is sensible. I just said I don't think that's wise. However, I do not understand why the VVD is advocating two things which I believe are mutually exclusive. On the one hand, she wants to take away from people who compete in jihad their nationality, but on the other hand she wants to instruct our judiciary to apply the International Crimes Act, which is already in place, more often. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u146	No, because situations aren't one-on-one the same. A discussion we have already had, for example, is what you do with people who become stateless. Then there can be a solution in this. So you need both instruments and, as far as I am concerned, they both need to be used. We shall hear from the rulers what they think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u147	I did not intend to ask a question at first, but Mr Zijlstra himself has caused some confusion. This morning, with a lot of tamtam, he put something in the newspaper that everyone thought: well, that is something far-reaching about which we are going to have a solid debate! Now that the nuances and the details are discussed here, Mr Zijlstra should correct me if I misunderstand him. The only thing Mr Zijlstra says is: make the most of all the possibilities that the various laws already offer us!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u148	At the moment, the nationality of people in the service of a terrorist army is not being taken away. At the moment, what can be done under the law of war against people coming back is not being considered. Again, we have already made these proposals in 2013 and 2014. In that sense, I agree with Mr Roemer, because we have already said this, but the proposals before us are not a stand-alone practice. It is true that we have wanted these matters for a long time, and as far as we are concerned they must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u149	Within existing law, even within the law of war, there are already possibilities. According to Mr Zijlstra, they are not used, but that is something else. I think it's not up to us, but to the judiciary to consider this. If Mr Zijlstra wants more war law here with a lot of bombs, I have a little more trouble with that, because it is not a snack bar automation that you can just pull out of. For that, we must be at war. Then who's going to declare war? If Mr Zijlstra wants to make maximum use of all the possibilities, I would like to think about this, because we want to deal with the excesses together, but if he wants to go far beyond what the law now allows, it is another matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u150	I'm just repeating what I just said. I'll be very clear. Because a terrorist under our laws is not the same as someone who is employed by a foreign military force of a country, it is not now possible to treat him as such. So you have to create that possibility. Fortunately, the cabinet is working on that. Mr Dijkhoff first laid down this plan at the beginning of last year, and fortunately the cabinet started to do so. We must realise that such adjustments are necessary. We must also use other possibilities within the law. That's the port of my plea. It has to be done. Let us make good use of the things that are already there. Where this is not yet done, we must look at what we need to achieve. I stress that I am not talking about declaring emergency situations or that sort of thing, because that would be six bridges too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u151	I can only conclude that it is a lot of muscle to impress. I leave that to Mr Zijlstra. The only new thing is the old bill that we have already dealt with here once. He'll come back to that. That's another thing. It is about whether we leave to any arbitrary minister who is in office at the time whether someone abroad has done something that looks like terrorism and is not allowed. That is a violation of the rule of law. Fortunately, we have judges for this. I hope that we will always do so and will not be at the mercy of any minister, who will have to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u152	We're not going to violate the rule of law. However, we are going to ensure that there are opportunities within the rule of law to deal with terrorists as much as possible. I hope we can find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr Buma, you have already had your turn on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u154	That's right, but I have a better question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u155	As long as it's a shorter one. We may decide that at the end, but others may, but I hope, above all, that it is a short question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u156	As a lawyer, I like to go and see what's really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u157	That's the disadvantage of lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u158	That is indeed the disadvantage of lawyers. I continued to look for what Mr Zijlstra means by depriving nationality of participation in a terrorist organisation. I finally figured out what this is about. It's about a bill that's been going around for years and has been in the cabinet for a long time. I believe that Mr Zijlstra should join Mr Pechtold and myself because we have already called on the Minister of Justice to make haste with legislative proposals which the Chamber has long said it wants. This is my improved question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u159	I must disappoint Mr Buma. I did not have the impression that Mr Pechtold wanted that so badly. This is one of the things it hangs on. We must do this and we need majorities to do it. The Minister must be able to work on it. The VVD Group is clear on which side of the majority it is on. The CDA is now clear in this, I understand. Well, that's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u160	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u161	I was talking about armament. This also applies to situations of violent violence other than terrorist attacks. What do we do to make it possible for ordinary cops, who walk in the street with an ordinary gun, to react quickly and effectively to a situation where violent violence is used? We hear sounds that they are not capable of doing so at the moment. In addition, I ask the Cabinet whether it shares the VVD's view that our intelligence services should be able to engage in cable activities as soon as possible, so that we can effectively combat the jihadist threat on the web. I'd like to hear a response to those matters. The jihadists want us to go into a cramp and get scared. They want journalists, politicians and people on the streets to stop saying what they think. They want us all to look over our shoulder and be afraid. They want us to see a terrorist in every Muslim and import the hatred from there to here. The biggest gift we can give to jihadists is to give in to that fear of violence against our freedoms. They want us to go so far in the fight to defend our freedom that we start to look exactly like our enemies. It is our duty to ensure that this does not happen and to remain true to our values. Defending our freedoms is not just a matter for the government; it is the responsibility of all of us, as citizens of this country. Everyone benefits from the freedoms we have here, so I expect everyone to fight for them. It's in our society that everyone can believe what they want. A Sunnis does not have full freedom of faith in an Islamic country like Iran. Nor a Shiite in an Islamic country like Saudi Arabia. Only in our free society can they, like Christians, Jews and others, profess their faith in complete freedom. Jihadists therefore also threaten the freedoms of large groups of Muslims who have built their lives here. That is why I expect from Muslims no more, but no less, than from Jews, Christians or others, because their freedoms are also being attacked. However, because it is their religion used by barbaric jihadists, protests from the Muslim angle appear stronger than protests from others. That too is a fact. A protest such as "not my Islam" I greatly welcome, not because I think Muslims should do so, but because they do not have to do so. I also have great appreciation for all the people who have gone out on the streets in the last few days. Regardless of whether you believe in God, in Allah or in nothing at all, it is a matter of making clear what we stand for as individual citizens of this country. The message was clear: our freedom and democracy are not negotiable. That was the message on Thursday at Dam Square, which was the message Sunday of millions in Paris and that is the message from the VVD here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u162	This brought an end to the first term of the Chamber. The cabinet has indicated that it would like to discuss the answer. I therefore suspend the sitting for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u163	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr. Chairman. What happened last week in Paris at Charlie Hebdo and the Jewish supermarket also hits the Dutch rule of law in the heart. For this reason alone, it is a good thing that we are here today, at the heart of our democracy, in this debate, to speak out with one another that freedom cannot be negotiated. Hands off our freedom, for me that is the essence of this debate. I have heard the same message in different terms in the first term of the Chamber. Hands off our freedom, the freedom that we have built, fought and defended in the history of our country and Western society at the expense of so much, over and over again. In all the horrible events of last week, this is also the hopeful and the best possible response to extremists who think they can violently disrupt and weaken our society. All these people last Thursday on Dam Square in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and other places in the Netherlands, the millions gathered in Paris on Sunday and we here in this Chamber in this debate, we all say the same: we do not let ourselves be separated, we continue our way of life in an open and free society, together we stand before the rule of law and we stand before the freedom to criticise and mock the authority. We also say that discrimination and extremist violence are simply no place in our society. Exactly there lies the border of the almost unlimited freedom of expression in the Netherlands, which we know in our country and cherish in our country. There is no justification for the extremist violence in Paris. The legitimate question that arises quickly in this context is what the Cabinet is doing to counter the threat of terrorism, including among population groups, professions and individuals in particular. That is why it is good that we are having this debate. Let me stress immediately at the beginning of my first term that this cabinet is doing everything it can to maintain and strengthen the rule of law by all means provided by the rule of law. Our security services and other stakeholders assess from day to day where and how possible threats develop and what is needed to combat them. Unfortunately, this intensive approach is part of the threat picture. We're extra vigilant and we're extra alert. Of course, I also refer to the Integral Approach to Jihadism in August. What concerns us in particular is how we can reduce through other channels, such as youth services, schools, municipalities, district agents, the labour market and probation, radicalisation and the threat of terror and fundamentalist violence. A wide range of resources and opportunities, from prevention to intervention by violence, are therefore being deployed. It is important to use the right mix every time under the circumstances. That is also what this debate is about. In answering the questions raised, I myself will speak on behalf of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in relation to the AIVD. My suggestion is to give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice after me and then to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. They will both answer a number of questions raised by the Chamber. I have two comments to make in advance. First of all, the threat picture in the Netherlands has unfortunately been substantial since March 2013. That's for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u165	I don't know if it's entirely a point of order. It's up to the Cabinet to decide how it does the division of labour. It is up to the cabinet to decide that the Ministry of Security and Justice has now drawn about everything, with the police, the security services and so on. But to say that the Prime Minister does everything, while we also have a Minister of the Interior? I found the picture in Paris rather distinctive. There was the French Minister for the Interior, there were all European Ministers for the Interior, but there was not our Minister for the Interior. If the division of labour is so, we have to accept it, but I think the Minister should answer the questions that have been asked about the AIVD, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u166	The Chamber has asked for the Minister's presence. We have looked at the questions asked. I would like to say a few things myself about the financing of our services. I think that's on my way. The questions that have been put to Mr Plasterk were in fact purely about them. I'll answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u167	Are the questions taken how much FTE the AIVD needs to do a watertight surveillance, how many police officers are currently doing the work of the AIVD and a few more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u168	You'll see, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u169	The minister might be able to do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u170	It seems to me that the minister is here because he is invited. I hope he stays put.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u171	He's gonna stay put. If he is dissatisfied with my answer, he can always give additional answers. Because the questions are also about funding, I think it is on my way to answer those questions. I would like to make two preliminary remarks before answering a number of specific questions put by the Court. The first one is this one. In the Netherlands, since March 2013, we have the threat picture "essentially." What happened in Paris, unfortunately, fits into that threat and that sounds cynical. It is new as terrible, barbaric fact, but it is not new that it is conceivable that it can happen. I say this because, here and there, the suggestion has been raised that all kinds of new measures should be taken as a result of what happened in Paris. It is our view that it is now necessary to implement the plans that lie ahead. We shall go into this in more detail in the reply. The second point is that it is not always possible to provide all the information in public, because simply disclosure of certain measures can give access to the means of security or to the way in which police and other services operate. This could have the counter-effect of reducing their effectiveness. It will not happen too often and I try to minimize it, but sometimes it is inevitable that I am reluctant on some points. First of all, I come to the issue of progress in legislation. That affects a lot of ministers. Something concrete has been asked about two laws. I would like to say a few words in advance about Article 14, second paragraph of the current Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. In this context, the prize goes to Mr Van der Staaij, who had the right to do so in an interrupting debate with Mr Wilders, who, after an irrevocable criminal conviction, for example for membership of or participation in a terrorist organisation, can be withdrawn from the Netherlands. It's already taken care of. We also want to deal with two other issues. In addition to such an irrevocable condemnation, we also want to make it possible for the Dutch community to be taken away, for example when participating in training camps. They are not yet members of an organization, but they are in training for such an organisation. This is part of the action plan against jihadism. As you know, that bill is in the Chamber. The Chamber has now given birth to a report. The cabinet will be presenting the note on the report this month. The second thing we want is also urgent and important, namely to ensure that the Minister of Security and Justice can withdraw Dutch citizenship if the security services signal that a certain person is in danger of participating or participating in an international armed conflict or in a terrorist activity and if the security service considers it necessary in that case to withdraw Dutch citizenship. Afterwards, of course, that person is open to appeal to the Dutch court. The person concerned will then have the opportunity to go to court, not physically self-evident, because he or she is no longer in the Netherlands, but he or she should be able to do so. That's the normal course of justice. Those are two things in which we want to expand the decline of Dutch citizenship. This is also the case in the jihadism action plan. This was also the subject of the most important questions about progress. So the first one is in the Chamber. The House has rightly taken some time, about the usual eight-week period, to produce the report. I understand that, too; we are dealing here with substantive legislation. The cabinet will be presenting the note on the report this month. The other bill is legally extremely complex. That was also discussed with the Chamber. At a number of moments it has been told that it is in consultation. We are currently speeding up this consultation so that this bill can come to the Chamber as soon as possible. But once again, the reduction of Dutch citizenship in the event of membership of a terrorist organisation is possible since 2010. That is what I want to say about a number of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you for appointing the Prime Minister's progress. There's another proposal the Chamber never made. That's the creation of a database of travel data, flight data. At that time, the cabinet itself was against it after a majority of the House would not want it. Now Europe is likely to do so. So my question to the Cabinet, and to the Prime Minister in particular, is the Cabinet prepared to reconsider its opinion and go along with the European proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr Pechtold has also asked for this, and Minister Opstelten will go into this further, but for the sake of clarity, I would also like to say to Mr Buma: the cabinet can live with the jointly elected position in the debate on 4 September. This means that we are now in the process of creating a technical facility that allows, within existing legislation, a matching of already available data relating to travel data. They asked for vacation records. We're not interested in that. These are travel data from those who are expected or in the opinion of the services to be part of a jihadist network, i.e. those we are targeting. There is, therefore, a limit within the agreements made in the debate: not the travel data of everyone, but those who are reasonably believed to be very important to follow their journeys with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u174	That was indeed presented by the cabinet on 4 September, but Europe is moving forward now. The question is whether the cabinet is prepared to return to the very reluctant position of 4 September and now move forward with Europe. Or does the Prime Minister intend to slow Europe down on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u175	As Mr Buma knows, 'Europe' does not exist. It is the Europe of the very many views, even here. That debate is going on in Europe. The Dutch position in this European debate is in line with the line I have just outlined. That means that we are taking part in this debate with the commitment I have just given it. It is therefore in line with the conclusions drawn here on 4 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u176	I will then have to go through this with the Minister of Justice, but I find that extremely serious, because here the Netherlands is simply on the brakes. Europe wants to go further and the Netherlands doesn't want to, because the coalition doesn't want to. I think that is a position that the Netherlands cannot take. We must ensure that Europe can move forward. I'll fight for that. I think the Prime Minister should do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u177	This debate took place on 4 September. At that time, the joint conclusion was drawn that the travel data of them are being followed with particular interest. That's something the cabinet can agree with. We can arrange this for the Netherlands within the existing legislation. That technical provision will also be created in the near future. Mr Buma is right in his own right that there is a debate going on in Europe on how to deal with those passer-by-name records, that PNR data. There is a wide range of views on this. That is not as inconvenient as Mr Buma has just described, if I may provide his nuanced speech with that qualification. At that point, it's not as black and white as he just sketched. In that debate, the Netherlands chooses the position in line with the conclusions of the debate on 4 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u178	I am pleased with that, because that is quite remarkable. When the cabinet came out of the summer and Minister Opstelten entered the Chamber here, it was just the picture that it was about the data of everything and everyone. That's why I called it the holiday details. I understand that the cabinet has listened carefully to the Chamber and now says: after 4 September, we are restricting it to suspects of terrorist crimes, perhaps not even crimes, but sympathizers of them. That's part of the shadowing. When Minister Opstelten came back from Paris, however, I got the idea again, because he joined the European debate. I think that there is also the confusion with Mr Buma that he would like it all again. I understand now that the cabinet is actually doing nothing more than what was adopted on 4 September and that the existing law...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u179	We do two things. Within the existing legislation, a technical provision will be introduced to match the data already available, in line with what Mr Pechtold said about this. We are also participating fully in the European debate, with a wide range of views on the table. The Netherlands chooses the position, also in line with the outcome of the debate on 4 September, that we want to focus on those, not everyone, who are particularly interested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u180	Let me get this straight. That is the Dutch commitment, but I understand that the coalition also says very clearly: the others may want more, other European countries may want us to exchange these data from all citizens, but the Netherlands will not agree to it. That's what I hear the Prime Minister say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u181	That's our current position. If that creates a situation in the European debate that makes it necessary to re-examine it with the Chamber, we will of course do so. At the moment, the situation is exactly as Mr Pechtold describes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u182	A word about the legislation currently before Parliament to broaden the possibilities of depriving people of their Dutch citizenship, as the Prime Minister has explained. I would like to ask him the question I have also asked Mr Zijlstra. Wouldn't it be better to arrest and punish people who have committed jihad, and not just the crimes involved, instead of saying: you won't enter the Netherlands anymore, and what else you do...? Let me ask you a different question. Is not one of the signals of last week's Prime Minister was in Paris that you should not fight international terrorism within your borders, but that it is an international task? You cannot say as a Member State or as a country: do it outside our borders, as long as you do not do it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u183	We do not want people to travel and gain techniques and insights that can lead to the most disgusting and terrible attacks in the Netherlands. At the same time, when people have traveled, we want to do everything we can to prevent them from being able to attack here in the Netherlands. This means that we want to have the opportunity to take away Dutch citizenship not only in the case of membership of a terrorist organisation, but also in the case of training for a terrorist organisation. That's to protect us. That will not always be possible, and I would like to draw attention to the question of the necessary dual nationality, and that will not apply to everyone, but to a very significant part. So you prevent them from travelling out, so they can't learn the techniques, and if they do, at the moment 180 people have left, some of whom are back again.Then we want to extend the possibilities to take away the Dutchmanship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u184	I understand that, but the Prime Minister will agree with me that it is not just about preventing people from committing attacks in Amsterdam or Utrecht, because we do not want that either in Paris or Berlin. That is exactly my objection to taking away Dutch citizenship. That's based on the idea of "as long as it doesn't happen here."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u185	I shall come back to that and others will also talk about this between our security and intelligence services. It has been suggested here and there that this cooperation would not be enough. Im grossen und goeden is this cooperation very good, in Europe but also with the American and other relevant security services. There is therefore intensive cooperation. It is therefore not the case that, after the adoption of the bill, someone disappears completely out of the picture after taking away the Dutch citizenship. There will still be intensive cooperation. However, I think it is wise to extend the whole package of measures at our service. We are well placed to deal with the existing legal and administrative frameworks, but these are further steps to bring administrative and legal frameworks closer together and to expand the range of possibilities still further. I think it's wise. Cable-bound interception has also been requested. Perhaps I can refer in the context of the debate on this subject, which will soon be on the agenda of the House of Representatives with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Questions have also been asked about the capacity of the General Intelligence and Security Service. At the moment, it is our belief that the AIVD is able to do what it and other services need to do with its current bestafficing and funding. The question immediately arises: is the budget leading or is it leading the task that lies ahead? At the moment, our assessment is that the amount available and the task ahead overlap, partly because of the additional funds added to the budget of the AIVD and the services in general. Should it be the case that the coming period would show that capacity should be increased further, I can assure the Chamber that funding will not stand in the way of us; that was decided by the Cabinet at its meeting last Friday. However, it is not the case that by adding 10, 20 or 30 million, a situation arises where the services would be able to do their job more than they are now. This in response to the questions about the need for additional money for the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u186	When there were plans to cut a third of the services, I heard the cabinet say that the financial resources were sufficient. Fortunately, something has happened about this, because at that time some additional resources were made available to the Chamber and to some extent to the cabinet itself. What worries me, however, is that the head of the AIVD held a lecture in the United States in December in which he indicated that the Netherlands had been overwhelmed by the return of jihadgoers. In summary, that reading also showed that there will be a problem if the return figures go up. I understand the Prime Minister says it's in order now and we can do our job. However, at the moment that the return figures are going up, that opportunity is real, perhaps even more than we think it is now, the service must be prepared. It won't work if you don't put the ads until then, start recruiting and you name it. So make sure that the service is in order and that there is room as soon as more people return. That's what's gonna happen. Then we must be able to act and not get into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u187	I can answer in the affirmative: that is the case now. That does not alter the fact that insights and situations can always change. I want to prevent the image from emerging as if the cabinet were to use a purpose: there is so much money and so we can do this. Of course, choices are always made. Over 200 million is now being spent on it. Even if you spend a billion dollars on it, you always make choices, of course. At present, however, we believe that these choices are justified. We also believe that there is scope for dealing with the type of developments outlined by Mr Slob. However, should it be the case that insights change in the near future, I would like to have said here that there should be no concern that the cabinet would then have to use a more objective reasoning. So we don't do that. We are not doing so now and we are not doing so in the case of moving insight as a result of further developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u188	But the head of the AIVD stated in New York that it happened publicly, and that is why I can refer to it here that, if the returns go up, there will be a problem as to how to track all returned jihadists. Unfortunately, however, that will have to be done. Governing is forward-looking. More will return than has already been done. The service must then be prepared for a situation which may occur in a month, two months, six months or perhaps even a year from now. It seems sensible to me, and that is also the call I am making on behalf of the Christian Union to the government, to make funds available for it now, to at least reduce the amount of austerity that is still open. As far as I am concerned, however, there is still a head on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u189	On the basis of current insights and the evolution of the figures, we see a trend in this, on the basis of which a certain extrapolation can be made. It is now our belief that this is the case and that this extrapolation can occur. Should that have a shocking effect, if the numbers suddenly change very much, then we will reflect further and then money will not be the problem. Conversely, however, I would also like to avoid saying that there is a problem that is now good to do and for which we have the people and the finances, and we are now going to put extra money into it, when there is now no need to do so. Then you say, "There's a problem and we put extra money in there." I think we have to establish that it is now manageable. If necessary, we'll come back to the room for extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mr. Slob. There are 15 participants in the debate. I'm trying to get everybody involved with interrupting. I have heard a clear answer from the Prime Minister. In this case, I think it is right that I should now move on to Mr Buma, whom I know he can ask very short, clear questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question in this case is how can the Prime Minister maintain that the budget for the intelligence and security services is sufficient if we are already working with police people at the moment. While the police are also under pressure, policemen are now deployed at the AIVD. It has to be that the AIVD itself has enough people. Then how can the Prime Minister insist that it is all right and that it is enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u192	This is about a small number. These people have been hired while recruiting their own staff. This hire is also paid by the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u193	At the same time, here's what I'm saying. Why is the number of people cut? Because of the government cuts. So the Prime Minister can say that there are more people coming in, yes, but then after they were fired first. Now there are a little more people coming in because the cuts have been reduced in part thanks to Mr Slob, but it remains that the policemen who should be working there are few, but they are highly qualified police officers. Only when it is, can the Prime Minister begin to say that things can work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u194	I really refer to the previous answer. This is a small number financed by the AIVD. This is necessary if the recruitment of its own staff is to take place at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u195	This is yet another example of the Prime Minister's denial and look away. He knows that the announcement of the austerity on the AIVD alone has led to the leaking of very specific knowledge and skills. This is not just a profession, a profession for which you can just as quickly set up someone as a part-time worker or temp. It's about very specific knowledge, which you don't just have back. That's one. The second point is the following. Mr Slob is absolutely right: if we know that so much is coming, then we must now anticipate it. So don't beat yourself up. Otherwise, it will be chatting afterwards if we do not make sure that all these people can actually be followed. Exactly that's necessary. This is about very specific knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u196	I have no choice but to summarise briefly what I have said on this subject so far. I'll say it very briefly. First of all, it is our view that we can handle the work with the current bestaffining and funding, including the extrapolation as we expect it to do. Should there be shock-wise effects or if the type of activity changes dramatically, the budget will not be leading; then we will add extra money to the security services. Secondly, money has been added to the security service, some EUR 25 million. At the moment there is work on recruitment in a final phase. During that recruitment, out of the budget of the AIVD capacity was hired by the police. It's not about large numbers. I can't name the number. This may be shared at a subsequent meeting of the Commission for the Information and Security Services. I cannot share it in public, because it would give access to an operational matter. I would then just cross the border, referring to the introduction to my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u197	In other words, the Prime Minister continues to deny what is going on. The announcement of austerity has led to the leaking of knowledge and skills. They have not returned to this day, while the need to follow people, the need for the work of the AIVD, has never been as great as it is now. Knowing that it will only be more in the near future, it is very important that the Chamber and the Cabinet anticipate this. Knowledge and skill are not from one day to the next, it takes a long time. They must now ensure that the reinforcement of the AIVD is not only completed but that it is further strengthened. I do call on the Cabinet to come up with further measures as soon as possible, so that we cannot say afterwards that we have failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u198	As Prime Minister, I think it is my responsibility to have a very clear view of what we have to do. Firstly, we have to do that our legal and administrative framework is adequate. That is sufficient at the moment. I just outlined it: we are working on legislation to further improve it. We can now work well with the existing legal and administrative framework. Secondly, I must make sure that the funding and organisation of our security services are up to speed. They have to take into account expectations of, for example, the number of recurring jihadists. The answer to that is yes. If that were to change, if our insights changed, then I would be the first to say that there should be extra money, and not to be proud: I told the Chamber that it could, and it cannot. But if my conclusion is that it can be done at the moment, then I do not think it is right to pay extra money for it now. Thirdly, the operation will always take visible and invisible measures, viewed from day to day on the basis of current developments. That's true for Paris, and so it is after Paris. It has, of course, been going on for a long time since we had the threat concept of substance. We use the administrative and legal framework and the services available to us. I am of course also referring to the police, youth services, probation and all the other parties working together, in addition to the security services and the armed forces that play an important role; think of the Royal Marechaussee. That whole chain is at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u199	A mayor like Van Aartsen of this city denies that. He also blames it on the loss of that expertise and that approach. That wasn't just the AIVD, it was just the first line. It's also in the whole prevention. Rutte I has cut back on that. In the AIVD note of June last year, we read very clearly that with the end of the action plan, the financing of such projects disappeared. "In addition, the focus on radicalisation in both politics and governance was reduced, partly due to a longer period of time in which the terrorist threat in the Netherlands was assessed as 'limited' (...). This led to a reduction of expertise and capacity." That's a literal quote from page 60 of the AIVD note. Then the question is right not only to ensure that this expertise exists at the level of the AIVD, but also in primary care, so that the mayors have sufficient expertise immediately. They need a budget for that. During Rutte I, the action plan has been completely cut off; Rutte II has not yet seen the chance to start it up again. As far as I am concerned, one of the most important signals should be that it has to come back. From the first line in the city to the AIVD the expertise has to return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u200	There has to be; I fully agree with Mr Pechtold. But I'm going to deal with the distinct parts. The budget of the General Intelligence and Security Service was 133 million in 2006. In 2015, that's 213 million. Since 2006, it has thus increased from 133 million to 213 million in 2015. Over the past four years, the budget has been 191 million, 198 million, 195 million, 198 million, and this year it is 213 million. It is not, then, that there are very large gaps. Mr Pechtold was right to say that the coalition parties had decided to continue funding in close cooperation with the three parties supporting the budget, in order to verify the current situation. As a result, these figures have been established. On the first line, I also agree with Mr Pechtold. That's exactly what we're working very hard on. Mr Asscher, as Minister for Social Affairs and Employment in charge of integration, will also discuss this. Mr Opstelten may also answer a few questions, but certainly Mr Asscher. I very much agree with Mr Pechtold, hence the action plan against jihadism which we sent to the Chamber in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u201	Yes, that was sent in August, but meanwhile the mayor of the city in which we are meeting now says he lacks that knowledge. On the budget of the AIVD, the Prime Minister says: if necessary, we will look into it. However, I am concerned about those mayors who want the first line to be well organised. How's the Cabinet gonna do that? That does not need to be worked out by me at this time, but can we at least hear from Minister Asscher and Minister Plasterk, who are dealing with Home Affairs, the VNG Fund and integration, how those mayors, who now also have to work on prevention, ultimately get their bill paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u202	Of course, we have designed this whole chain of prevention together. The jihadism action plan is not only about repression, as Mr Pechtold suggested in his introduction, but to a large extent also about prevention, and rightly so. That's about the first line. Mr Asscher will answer a number of specific questions. Let us see if there is still a need for additional letters to the Chamber after that. I do not think so, because I think this will give a good picture of the current situation. I'm gonna go into a few final questions. Cooperation between the security services of France and Turkey has been requested. I can say to the Chamber that there is, of course, intensive international coordination and exchange of information between European intelligence and security services. At the initiative of our own AIVD, a European partnership between the countries most concerned was launched in 2013 focusing specifically on the jihadism dossier. I cannot, of course, inform the Chamber of the precise relationship between the French and Turkish services. We simply do not have that information. In general, however, as I said earlier, there is excellent cooperation between the security services in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u203	I can be very brief about this. If such essential information about returning jihadists, whose in France is so clear that they pose a great threat, is not exchanged... I understand that the Prime Minister does not know everything, but he should not say that there is optimal cooperation, because such fundamental information does not share, is, of course, dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u204	Firstly, we do not have any information on the precise bilateral cooperation between other security services. What we have information about is multilateral cooperation and cooperation between the Dutch security service and fellow services. Mr Roemer is now asking a question about cooperation between the French and Turkish services. I don't have any specific information on that. I also think that the conclusion drawn by Mr Roemer goes too far if it should be noted that this cooperation is not working. It's failing on this file. Quite. Very serious. There has been a horrible, barbarous attack in Paris, which may or may not have been prevented; all this must be shown. I can't comment on that right now. That will have to be proved, but I think it goes too far to establish that two fellow services abroad are therefore not working together. Mr Roemer is, of course, right about this signal on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u205	That is a more real answer, for which I am grateful. Therefore, be careful to say that this cooperation is optimal if it appears that essential information is not shared between the other security services. So be careful with statements as it would all be optimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u206	I'm fighting this. I didn't say it was optimal. I have said that there is good cooperation between the services. This also contradicts the image that has arisen in the media over the last few weeks as if it were not the case. I have to say for myself that this cooperation is good. Really good. The AIVD has had an important driving role in this. However, the question was now about cooperation between two foreign services, and we do not have any specific information on this. Finally, I would like to address a few final questions. One was about the link between terrorists from France and the Netherlands. In addition, our intelligence services are, of course, constantly collecting information and analysing jihadist networks. As I said just now in reply to Mr Roemer, they do so in close cooperation with fellow services abroad. It is true that, of course, in public, I can only communicate to a limited extent what our services know about these networks. Very specific questions can only be discussed in the context of the Commission for the intelligence and security services. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the very firm words that Mr Wilders used: blood on the hands of the cabinet if there were to be an attack. I think that is very important, not only in my direction, but also in the direction of my colleagues. I think I'll leave it at that. Mr Wilders is captain of a large party. In some polls, that party is even the largest in the Netherlands. The words of a leader of such a large political formation bear weight. That's for his responsibility. I also note that these big words do not contribute to solving the problem we are debating this evening. I'll leave it at that, but this is what I wanted to say. This cabinet is doing everything it can to ensure that the country is safe and that we can reasonably have our services, such as the police and the security services, working together to do what is necessary. There are no guarantees that what happened in Paris could not happen in the Netherlands. However, there is a guarantee that I, all four of us, and the whole cabinet, will be motivated to ensure that the administrative and legal framework, the funding, the bestaffining and everything of all relevant players is in order. That's our job. The Netherlands has appointed us for this. We do that every day. We were already very motivated, but certainly after last Thursday that motivation has obviously only increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u207	I don't want to go into the details. We'll get to the Minister of Security and Justice in a moment. I would like to make a general comment. The Prime Minister wants to paint the picture that we must do everything we can to improve the safety of our people. I'd like to be a part of that. If insecurity calls for protection, how does the Prime Minister indicate that half of our district agents are being deployed to post, and that so much police capacity is being removed from the neighborhoods to do other important work? How does the Prime Minister indicate that this year and the next few years we have to make substantial savings on those who have to ensure enforcement? There is a heavy cut in police capacity, but 75 million is also being cut in the Public Prosecutor's Office this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u208	We have over 50,000 in the Netherlands incredibly motivated policemen. We also have a military force of 45,000 very well trained soldiers, and we have services and organisations such as probation and youth care that do very important work in the Netherlands. They're in the field for all of us every day. I know that Mr Roemer has a great deal of heart for these people. I have a lot of heart for these people myself. The task of the cabinet is to ensure that they are best served and funded, and that they can do the right things. This does not mean that you cannot have extremely critical conversations with each other on a regular basis about whether things can be more efficient, better, or indeed in such a more efficient way that this may lead to cost savings. That's always the case. That is what I said earlier in this debate. We must be careful not to say that there is a problem that we have to spend extra money on. No, there is a very big problem, and the question we have to ask ourselves is whether the instruments that are currently at our service, the funding of them, and the many people who work in them are of the level we need. My answer is yes. We will not delay for a second if further analyses or developments reveal the need to find additional money. I'll come back to the room and we'll find that money. I know that I will find all the parties in the Chamber by my side, from Mr Roemer to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u209	This is not a pure image of reality. I understand, of course, that the Prime Minister wants to paint the picture that everything is under control. I'm not making it up myself. There's been a huge cut in parole. I've been looking in many places and you'll hear that people can't do the work anymore to prevent people from repeating themselves. People become spin-door criminals. I know about cops that they're having a hard time doing their job. In the outskirts of the country there is hardly any copper left, while our demands and standards are much higher. Go to corners, to Tholen, or I'll know where. Because a lot of people have been taken away, it is no longer possible to do the work there. The D.A.'s office says it has to drop important cases because there's a capacity shortage. And then there will be an extra cut in the budget. The cabinet may make cuts, but be honest about the choices that are being made. Don't tell me things are in order if that's not true and if there's only more work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u210	I'm not saying everything's flawless. I'm not saying everything's going perfectly. We are dealing with very large implementation organisations with professional bestaffining. There are very good people. There is a constant conversation when Dutch citizens' taxpayers' money is spent. This must be done in an efficient, sensible and sound way. Each time that is looked at again. Look at the introduction of the new police organisation, where it is possible to prioritize much more and to look much better where in the Netherlands at what time who is needed and at the same time maintain the unique character of the Dutch police force, the deep anchoring in the neighbourhoods, in the cities, in the villages, and the knowledge of the people. That is the strength of the Netherlands and I am proud of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u211	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their contribution to this important debate. The threat in the Netherlands is still real, as the Prime Minister said. The threat level has been at "essential" since March 2013. This means that we in the Netherlands must take account of an attack. The chance of an attack is real. At the moment, there is no concrete evidence that an attack is imminent in the Netherlands, but the threat level is unchanged. We keep the assessment of the threat level under constant review. We monitor the security situation on a daily basis. We adapt security measures in the implementation if necessary. We do this 24 hours a day, visible and invisible. All services aim to prevent attacks, counter radicalisation, prevent exit and tackle returners. From the moment the threat level is raised, the approach to jihadism has intensified. All the measures taken by the Cabinet have been merged into the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. We have already provided the first progress report. I shall be happy to answer the questions put, as long as they have not yet been answered. Mr Van der Staaij has asked about criminalising an exit to a jihadist area. This concerns the implementation of the Dijkhoff motion which was tabled during the budget debate. On that occasion, I undertook to investigate the possibility of criminalising the voluntary stay in a territory controlled by a terrorist organisation. We consult with the external researcher on the implementation of the research and aim to produce the results before the summer. That brings me to Mr Pechtold's questions. I'll answer them at a slightly lower rate than he put them, but he's used to it. Will the action programme be extended? What does "toothing" mean? No, by "tooth tooth" I mean collectively as a unity of implementation of our ambitions. What points will the Minister take from the Paris talks? If that means on the EU-PNR, I will act in accordance with the agreement with the Chamber. My position is known to my colleagues. Did the minister in Paris make promises against the wishes of the Chamber? No. Can I comment on Europol's two-year-old warning? Dutch services provide the required information from Europol neatly. How much time does the Minister take to implement the nine measures in the action programme with a question mark? I, along with my colleague, am pushing ahead with existing, reinforced new measures. When will there be a response to the report of 31 October? That response was given by the Prime Minister at the end of this month. How many passports have been cancelled? In the meantime, I have detected more than 50 passports for revocation. Mr Pechtold, I hope there will not be a new question, because then...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u212	Luckily, there are also a couple of them open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u213	Questions about the existing answers can of course be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u214	I must say that the pace is quite high.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u215	I'm almost done, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u216	Well, I don't think so. Without fooling around, it's nice that this time all the questions have been recorded. It took stenographic speed, but I only had six minutes. I'll take a few things together. "A little bit of a tooth" actually means nothing more than doing what we already did. Let that also have been the conclusion of the debate on 4 September, because at that time we found that 23 out of 38 proposals were already known and that there were actually only a few new proposals. That is why I am asking today what happened to these proposals. The Minister sent a progress report to the Chamber in November, but I do not read much news about that either. Once again, I hear the same reassuring words. That is a huge difference from what I read in the newspaper, because there I only read heavy new terms: "tooth and tooth" and "reacting on the machine guns." The VVD minister says there too: well, that's also a good idea of the VVD. Whatever toilet duck invented, we think is a good idea! What exactly is the real progress? I'd like to hear that from the Minister. In 2013 Europol says...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u217	Shall we begin with your first question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u218	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u219	I can respond very briefly to this long question. There is an action programme which we discussed extensively in September. At the request of Mr Pechtold, who also tabled a motion on this subject, we have come up with a progress report. We sent it to the Chamber a month later. We have also indicated the planning of our legislative programme. And indeed, "a little bit more" means that we carry out that program with ambition. That's the core of my story. We do that together with others, including the mayors you spoke of. I gave you the details of Europol exactly. We are doing well at Europol; ask the neighbors next door. We are doing very well, but we are asking others to do the same. These are indeed the issues that we discussed with colleagues in Paris. So the answer is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u220	Mr President, I am so glad that I am not a spokesperson for the Justice Department, because then go against that again. I see to the Prime Minister that he is proud of his minister. That's why I'm gonna fill it in. In 2013, Europol says that it is not enough. On 4 September we find that out and the Minister says to me today 'it's okay'. I shall not go into that further in this debate with the chairmen of the political groups, but I note that that is nothing. The minister's talking about "toothy-toothy." As an eminence grise like this minister with all his local experience says so, people think that there will be money and people and that the minister will come up with new ideas. But no, the Minister himself says that he has to deliver that "tooth" himself by bringing these old plans and that some new plan to something at last. This includes, for example, that important bill about which he says in the media to the Chamber "the Chamber does not deliver," even though the last round of questions took place in October. So I simply have to say that in November, December and the first half of January the Ministry left it at the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u221	The answer to this question is: let me say again that this month the answer will come. The facts about Europol that I mentioned are correct. There's a very good delivery. Mr Pechtold shakes no. That's fine, but the answer is yes. I will also mention this in the next progress report. I would also like to say once again that, with all the partners here and outside this house, we are incredibly ambitious in implementing the objectives and programme of the action programme against jihad. For example, the municipalities, the VNG and the G-4 mayors do so with great enthusiasm. I now come to the question about the investigation of stolen passports at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u222	I understand you're going to continue with your answer now? That was not quite the intention, because Mr Buma also wanted to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u223	Unless the Minister was already answering my next question, but I assume this was about the previous question. I also have a question about that "toothy" part. We had a debate here on 4 September. Then the Minister said: we are going to do it quickly, we are going to show maximum ambition and we are going to do it together. These are exactly the words that the Minister is now using again, with the communication to the Netherlands: we are doing more. I want to know what that "more" is. If the ambition is now higher than on 4 September, I think it is extremely serious, because it was already said that the ambition was maximum. What did the Minister mean in concrete terms when he said on TV that we are going to step up and speed things up? What can the Netherlands expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u224	Thank you for that question. In line with what the Prime Minister said earlier, I indicated that this was an ambition. I was asked a question about this. You're from Paris, where you've been speaking as colleagues. Then, of course, you are talking about the sharpness, not only of legislation, but also of implementation services. Every day I start the day with the NCTV to take the position. That's the point. That's how you understand it. This is not a reproach to anyone. It's not an incentive either. It is the natural tendency to repeat what ambition we should and should have as one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u225	My point remains; I'll give it a few more details. I heard the Minister on television say that the bill to be deprived of nationality was in the Chamber and that he hoped it would be dealt with quickly. Mr Pechtold has already mentioned this. The Minister put the ball on TV for the whole of the Netherlands at the Chamber, but when I looked at it afterwards, the law appeared to have been with the minister since October. How is it that the Minister is going to a TV programme to blame the Chamber for not moving fast enough, when that law has long been with the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u226	I have reread the text of what I said there. That's always good. I was asked about the bill. I told him it was in the room. I did not state at that time that I could have done so and perhaps I should have done so because a report had been submitted and that I would have come forward with a reply this month. That's right. I did not have that in mind at the time, although I also have almost all the dates of the legislative programme in mind. I'm joining the investigation of stolen passports at Schiphol. Mr Pechtold spoke about this last time, and rightly so. The police and the KMar are in the process of addressing this problem by improving the exchange of information at international level. This isn't an easy thing to do. It's tricky, but it's right to be asked. I admit that we will state the state of play in the progress report. The next question is what I'm going to do with the holiday details. That's what the Prime Minister's been doing...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u227	That's another point. If I get eight answers at once, it's an unequal fight. The current number of stolen passports and identity cards is 40 million worldwide; I think that is the number we exchanged on 4 September. That's a huge number! I'm still surprised at the amount. Now Schiphol turned out to be one of the worst places in the world. It was not in order and on 4 September we were told that we are working on it. The November progress report also says: we are working on it. Now the Minister says we're working on it. If the Cabinet exudes that much is being done and that a tooth has been added, I now want to know in concrete terms what has been done about the leak in Schiphol to prevent the stolen passports from being used in, as I see it, one of the best airports in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u228	The police and the KMar are working on solving the problem. That didn't happen in one day. I want to talk about the feasibility of security policy. You can't say by pressing the button that we have those 40 million passports back under control. I'm honest with you about that. We will indicate it with figures in the progress report, then that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u229	That'd be great. We can then follow the progress of the improvement at Schiphol Airport with supporting figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u230	That's a promise. I've already processed the vacation records. I shall come back to this when I discuss Mr Buma's questions. I would like to say to Mr Pechtold once again that the Prime Minister has also said that it is being done in a European context; I am not taking a step without talking to the Chamber about it first. The position we have adopted with the Chamber is the starting point. Mrs Thieme and Mr Buma spoke about travel data. It has already been indicated which system we now have, and by the way, with Europe's subsidy. The Chamber has already been informed of this. I think it is right for Mr Buma to ask for this, given his attitude and attitude, and we shall come back to this. I will inform the Chamber in the JHA consultations that we have always had minutely per meeting on the state of play and on the preparation of other countries and of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u231	I appreciate that very much. The Chamber will then come back to that. What is Europe's concrete proposal on travel data? What did the Minister of V and J say on behalf of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u232	There is no concrete proposal yet. We have, of course, met with a number of ministers in Paris. I explained our position on this point. My German, English and French colleagues have taken different positions. I have stressed that it is sensible to have more clarity and to have a dialogue between the Member States, the Commission and the European Parliament. Otherwise, you're gonna be discussing this in ten years' time. This confirms to me that we have made use of existing institutions in the national position, so that we can indeed do something in the interests of implementing the jihad programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u233	There is always such consultation between the Council, Parliament and the Commission; that is normal and I think that is wise. However, it is not a position. The Minister now says that the position of the Netherlands was different from that of France, England and Germany. I am afraid that the Netherlands is reluctant, because the coalition did not want to do so in September, and that the other countries may want to go further and we are stepping on the brakes. I don't want that. Are these countries prepared to take further steps than the Netherlands at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u234	It is not a question of national institutions or associations. Germany, England or France are not going to do anything separately. This is a European database. This requires consultation with the European Parliament, the Member States and the Commission. They must meet in a trialogue before a directive comes into force. That can be followed from month to month in consultation with me. I'd be happy to do that with Mr. Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u235	This can't remain undisputed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u236	This was a personal fact. I'd like to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u237	Mr Van Haersma Buma has taken that very seriously. I am pleased to give that pleasure to Mr Oskam. I come to the point raised by Mr Van der Staaij: the security of Jews in Europe. At European level, anti-Semitism is condemned by all Member States. Measures aimed at monitoring and security of Jewish citizens, institutions and organisations are a national competence. Where necessary, for example in cross-border cases, information shall be shared between operational services. In response to Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Slob's question, I make two points. As I reported to you in October, I agreed, in consultation with the respective mayors and the Jewish community, to contribute a total of EUR 1.5 million to the cost of the security of Jewish institutions over the next four years. That's a good landing. That has been well discussed, and that is what is happening. The contacts between Mr Asscher and me with the Jewish community are good, including in terms of protection, surveillance and security. The national coordinator spoke directly to the Islamic community last Wednesday. In this conversation it has been agreed that if necessary, Islamic institutions will be secured. I wanted to say that again here. I would also like to point out that, in close consultation with the Jewish community, including in Amsterdam, we always look with the mayor at the level of security and then take action. Mr Slob knows that too. If things don't work out well, we intervene, because this is extremely important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u238	We are indeed pleased that state money has become available for the protection of Jewish institutions. That was a huge breakthrough after we debated it for years. However, discussions with the Jewish community since last week show, among other things, that their own security contributions are still disproportionately high. That's going a long way. I gave the example of bulletproof vests, but there is more to mention. Everything that is done in the buildings, so inside, is on your own account. These costs are disproportionate when it should be a matter of honour that people can freely confess their faith and go to a synagogue or school that they advocate for their children. I ask the Minister, in consultation with the Jewish institutions, to see what he can do to ensure that this funding is substantial so that the costs do not burden them disproportionately, also in the context of the circumstances we are now facing, which are extremely serious for this particular target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u239	I would like to point out that as such we have made good agreements on the 1.5 million. That's something new. I don't think it's wise to start asking right now if that should be more. I know the answer to that question. In our regular consultations we will have all the questions raised fairly and openly. It is, of course, also an important issue for us. We do have the impression, together with the local authorities involved. Mayors, we can do this, too. Of course, there is also a responsibility of one's own, which one would also like to take. I agree that this issue will be dealt with in the regular consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u240	I have one more comment to make. Of course, the Chamber can also make its own statements, so perhaps we will come back to it in the second term. Personal responsibility, of course. But let's also be very honest with each other. Bullet-proof vests, bulletproof glass, huge security devices, large fences, cameras and people who can't normally go to a synagogue, a school or anything else, that's a daily charge against a society in which, here again tonight, we confess that we have freedom high on the banner and that we want to do everything we can to protect that freedom. The way we deal with the smallest minorities in our country determines, in part, our civilisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u241	What Mr Slob says appeals to me. I admit that I will continue to follow this, so that, indeed, if we have to, we will be able to assume our responsibilities in the same way. I think it is a good thing that, in addition to the other things we just do, we should also see how this new arrangement works and unpacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u242	Apparently, Mr Slob mentioned examples from his visits, and we were still not sufficiently agreed on how to meet structural costs. Is it not possible, in view of the good contacts that exist, to say, in consultation with the Jewish community, that we really agree on this, that we do not have to go back to that in debates, and we now have clear agreements on what the issue really is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u243	I understand what Mr Van der Staaij is saying. We have an appointment in four years, because that's what this amount is for. That's already quite structural. We will therefore continue to raise these points. I also believe that the organisations should see a certain form of security and continuity so that they can take their measures and bow to them. It is of course also important that we coordinate this with the municipal authorities, because they also contribute. Of course, they bear the first responsibility, which they themselves want. I'm getting to the point about the police. Mr Zijlstra and others have spoken about this. It is understandable that there are concerns with the police when you see the images of the events in Paris. I share those concerns. I'll talk to the police unions as soon as I can. It is important for our policemen to be able to travel the streets confidently and for the right people to be deployed with the right equipment and training. I would also like to say that, of course, the police will not be deployed until they are equipped for their duties. Let me be absolutely clear about that. No one is being sent out by the police and by authority if they are not equipped to do so on the basis of the security analysis available. We don't send the cops out on the streets without the resources they need. That's a hell of a starting point. Security measures are taken on the basis of the threat and specific units and means are also deployed against the threat. Then we scale up to arrest teams, where we have six of them in the Netherlands, and of course the DSI, which is the highest in the violence spectrum. They could be there in the very short term. For example, up to and including the highest levels of violence units are available. It is very understandable that I would like to repeat this, because I do not want to trivialize it and do not want to act soothingly in it either, that situations such as those in Paris last week cause concern, including among police officers. Depending on the task to be completed and the estimated level of threat and violence, these specialist units can be deployed, which are more heavily armed and protected. Of course, I am going to conduct the consultation with the unions and with the police leadership to see if any adjustments are needed. I have the impression that the corps leadership, the professionals I'm targeting, are also saying they're in order. That doesn't mean that everything that's there is always enough. For example, the latest changes in the arms structure have been made to the arrest teams, where a heavier weapon has been purchased. Let me give you that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u244	It would be nice if the Minister of Security and Justice presented a fair picture. There's a lot of scaling up to do. We need at least 2,000 people to secure objects. They are all removed within the existing capacity. This means that other work remains, for example in the fight against fraud and drugs. We hear from the field every day, and when we hear it, you will also hear what remains. Neighborhood agents from all corners of the country can no longer function there because they are being removed. I understand that the Minister wants to set priorities, but let the Cabinet be honest by saying that it is removing capacity everywhere and that there should be an expansion of capacity to keep doing the same thing, which is already minimal. The union itself speaks of at least 2,000. The Minister is trivializing that. I hope he wants to tell the honest story now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u245	I always keep the story of the facts. I got it from the professionals. That's the point. I never tell anything else. If measures are to be taken, we do not, moreover, make any announcements about these FTEs from somewhere. That's obvious. There are cities that have special units for that, so that they can count on it. This is the case in The Hague, for example. So far I cannot support what Mr Roemer is saying. When you take measures to reduce police strength elsewhere, you always have to understand what that means. That is why we are doing so with all our wits. We will always take the necessary measures. I don't recognize a strength of 2,000 fte. Mr Roemer spoke to the Prime Minister about his great concern for the enforcement apparatus. Of course it is incredibly difficult and profound to work there at this time. However, there is no complaint at both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. There is precisely the will to work with ambition and with us on the programme. That's how the D.A. created extra officers' seats. They are now working and they are achieving results. For example, the police have an SGBO in all units and a national SGBO in The Hague to coordinate the whole jihad approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u246	Two cases. I can be brief about the state's attorney's office. There's five million less cuts. There's 75 million more cuts left in the D.A.'s office. The D.A. can't handle the work right now and has to leave things behind for longer than necessary. We have a problem there. That's what people say. It is also indicated in the budget. Then the police. Of course, priorities must be identified. If there's a need for the man somewhere, there's a need to intervene. However, if we take people from all over the country, from various services, in order to intervene somewhere, the safety standards we have agreed with each other cannot be met in a structural manner. Then we have a problem that needs to be solved. This minister denies that. This problem is also mentioned by the unions, but also by mayors in the country. When it comes to the fight against fraud, the fight against drugs, but also the capacity of local agents in other parts of the country, we simply have a structural problem. The Minister acknowledged in his reply that we would remove it from there and that this would have consequences. If we see that together, we must say: we do not want that. Then I expect the Minister to come up with a plan of action, which does not have to be tonight, but I do want a commitment to put that capacity in order so that we can also live up to the commitments made by the Chamber and the Cabinet. Otherwise it will be empty talk, we will not be able to do anything with it and it will really be at the expense of security in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u247	I do not agree with Mr Roemer. Let me say that loud and clear, even against the highest authority of the State and the highest authority of the National Police. Every week the question is asked to me: can we meet the targets and objectives we are facing with quality and capacity? And the answer is yes. I have always said that we must speak honestly if the answer is no. That's what the professionals tell me. Then we'll take action. Then we have a subject to discuss. That's the same as what the Prime Minister says. Those are the facts. That is the reality. There are no cases left at the D.A.'s office. The D.A. stands for his results, his agenda, his priorities. I've seen the D.A.'s multiannual plan. The plan for 2015 is exactly what it says. I'd like us to point that out. During the budget debate, Mr Van Nispen was also mentioned there once again: if things are not going well with the Public Prosecutor, then I will reach out to the President of the College and we will solve it. That is what we are in, and that is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u248	The Minister quite rightly pointed out that the starting point is, of course, that police officers, those we send into the field, are adequately provided. I understand that the Minister is going to speak and will act where necessary, also in view of the brutal violence, which is not only used by terrorists, but also, for example, in a robbery of Brink's, especially as a result of what happened in Paris, the images that go with it and the sounds that we hear from agents saying: we wonder if we can handle it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u249	I'm saying I... I got a letter yesterday...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u250	It's okay with yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u251	Yes. The answer is yes. I will start that conversation and I have already entered into it and we will come back to it, but the starting point is that I say with the corps leadership: we have the situation in order at the moment. However, I think it is important to keep the signals we are getting under constant review. That's the key point in which I normally operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u252	Yeah, it was a little shorter but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr President, you also heard: the rest of the answer was the most interesting. The group chairman of the largest party in this Chamber says: I want police officers to have automatic weapons. The Minister makes a commitment that he will continue to engage in discussions to determine whether what is currently available is sufficient. That's what the Minister said. So then the policeman gets an automatic weapon if it's up to the minister. It has been said quite clearly: we have these special forces; they can be deployed. But if you peel it all off, then we have enough capacity according to the minister, then policemen are sufficiently armed and nothing will change. Or is it different?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u254	I thought you were asking questions faster, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u255	I was just...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u256	No, I'd like you to just answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u257	I can answer quickly. Of course, in reply to Mr Roemer's question, I said: as such, there is no reason to intervene. But of course the situation is worrying, it is exciting. We are busy every day to weigh things up and make choices. With regard to the second point concerning Mr Zijlstra's question and the letter from the unions, I have said from my point of view and my knowledge that I share that with you, but I am going to speak to unions who have their concerns as workers' organizations. Of course, I'm gonna listen to that, just like I'm listening to the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u258	I have asked a lot of questions, and on many points this Minister has just failed to expose it. This is clear! In the newspaper, Minister Opstelten says that he totally agrees with his own party and that the police get the weapons they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u259	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u260	So they're getting other weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u261	No. That is the problem with Mr Pechtold. Mr Pechtold has a piece of paper and wants to ask that question, but he needs to listen to what I am saying. Learn that! You didn't do that on September 4th, but do it now. Listen to me for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u262	A tortured minister and a chamber that wants answers. I have a very clear question. Don't tell me you're gonna talk to unions anymore. Is the next week or the next month one cop gonna get another gun than he has now? If it's up to you, are the cops going from fist-fire weapons to automatic weapons, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u263	The answer is no, because that is not at all the issue. I already told you. That's what you look at per position. This is hardly a very interesting question, but it has been asked in this house and that is why I answer it. The point is that you take the concerns that live with the police seriously and pay attention to them. That is the key point. Furthermore, the corps leadership, and I with them, says: we have it in order. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u264	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u265	No, Mr. Pechtold. You asked for a clear answer, and you received it. There was nothing Spanish with it. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u266	Mr Van Klaveren spoke about administrative detention. I reply orally just as I answer the questions in writing. I have said before that I see no added value in administrative detention. Mr Samsom spoke about deradicalisation programmes. Of course, we carry them out together. The use of deradicalisation programmes will definitely continue. The same applies to the exit facility announced in the action programme for persons who wish to leave extremism. It is planned to start in the first half of 2015. Deradicalisation is already being deployed, in a voluntary and involuntary framework. For example, it is imposed by the D.A. Deradicalisation programmes for the detainees are also used in the terrorist department. This can also be seen as an answer to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr Van Klaveren has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u268	At the moment almost all returned jihadists are free in the Netherlands. In some municipalities they even get a home, education and jobs. Why does the Minister let returned jihadists wander free?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u269	I think that's clear. We have three points: preventing radicalisation, preventing departures and tackling returners. Every returnee shall stand and be interrogated. On the basis of what is known from the returner, a program is run. They're different, and we don't make any announcements about them. However, this may also mean that a case-by-case consultation with municipalities takes place. Based on the personal circumstances, an exit program can also take place. That is real, that is good, and that is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u270	The Minister has just indicated that there is no added value in administrative detention. So this is the added value. If administrative detention existed, as it exists in the United Kingdom or Australia, the Minister could arrest and secure people when they return as a jihadist. But he doesn't. He lets those people walk free. In the end, no five people have been imprisoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u271	I can tell you that the D.A. has 30 cases in progress. There are 60 people involved. That's one side of the coin. The other side is that we live in the rule of law. That is also the answer I have repeatedly given in writing. I happen to feel the same way about it, but that's what you expected me to do. So I'm gonna give you the arguments again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u272	Of course, but I assume that the Minister also believes that Australia and the United Kingdom are states of law. It's possible there, so it could be here. This cabinet lets returned jihadists walk freely and does not do everything it could to make the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u273	When I am in Paris, I am also in the company of my Danish colleague. All my other colleagues are also very interested in her experiences. It's just customization. We look at what we have to do and what we do wisely and wisely, but we are extremely strict. Everyone is first apprehended and interrogated by the D.A.'s office. Measures will then be taken. I will continue my speech. Shouldn't the boundaries be closed? Although there is a substantial threat, it is not yet at such a level that internal border controls need to be introduced in Europe. There is also good cooperation through the increased sharing of information within Europe. I will conclude with Mr Van Ojik; I had the discussion in my head every time. It is a pity that Mr Van Ojik has not noticed what we have worked so hard on. In response to the Van Ojik motion, the progress report includes a thorough analysis of global jihadism and a reflection on the causes of radicalisation. I can recommend it for a reading. We have also looked intensively at it ourselves. It's good work, but of course it's not the final answer. I would like to refer to that. We're not done with that. Mr Asscher and I are also talking to experts in this area, and we have asked them to come up with a programme and see if we can give new impetus to what we are already doing. I would like to give that to Mr Van Ojik. That's what I thought I was done with my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u274	But there is another question from Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u275	From the side of the Chamber there was still some uncertainty as to whether or not we can apply war criminal law. How does the Minister of Justice view this? Is the presentation of cases of the VVD correct that you could, for example, allow Articles 4 to 7 of the war criminal law to enter into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u276	Let me make it quite clear to Mr Buma that we do not think about it and that we do not consider it appropriate. However, it is well known that the Act on Terrorist Crimes, I thought that Mr Buma also spoke about it for a moment, for all these crimes, has made special provisions, such as higher penalties, investigative powers and all that sort of thing. In addition, at the moment we are not thinking about other things, except the legislative programme that is yet to come. That is how I understood Mr Zijlstra. The deadlines have been set by the Prime Minister, and I have just mentioned them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u277	So, if I understand correctly, does the Minister understand Mr Zijlstra's appeal the same as I do: continue with the existing legislative programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u278	That's exactly what I'm trying to answer. In this case, it was obviously clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u279	Mr. Chairman. In the debate, several parties have asked for the development of counter-force. Resistable democracy, resisting attacks like this, demands counter-force. Those terrorists, those horrible criminals, must have felt that with those combined attacks that held France for three days, they would have gotten to the knees of France: with the enormous fear that was being sown, with the combination of targets that were being chosen and with the inconspicuous violence. Instead of getting France on its knees, however, they got the whole of Europe on their feet. I think that is a very powerful example of counter-force. In France immediately on Wednesday, but also in the following days, people went out on the streets to tell them what they thought, which culminated in the march on Sunday. This also happened in the Netherlands and in many other European countries. In all the incompetence that characterizes us in free society, with printed notes with "Je suis Charlie" and sweet love statements to other populations, that gave an ultimate powerful counter-signal. I very much agree with those who say: it is very important for Muslim organisations and individual leaders from the Muslim community to speak clearly at this time. They did. They have done so quickly and unequivocally. It is indeed a long list. I saw Mr. Van Ojik walk that list. Maybe the list of organizations that did that is longer than the list he just walked. The importance of this is quite obvious. Is that enough? No, for example, a large number of individual Muslims who started the Facebook page Non-Mine Islam found that, again, they spoke in a very convincing way and often individually to explain why they were disgusted with this kind of crime just like the rest of the country. That is an important message, because it confirms that we are with most of them. Most people love the freedom of this country and the rights that are here, and will not give in to the violent ideology, to the version of Islam in which the terrorists believed. No, I don't think they did this because of a call from any politician here. I don't want to disappoint anyone..................................................................................................................................................... It is also right that there has been talk of fear among different groups in society. Minister Opstelten and I spoke last Friday with representatives of the Muslim community about rejecting this violence, but also about fear. The anger, the justified anger as expressed by several Members of Parliament, must focus on the perpetrators, their possible accomplices and their inspirators. The anger about these crimes should not be cooled at the cashier in the Albert Heijn, on the neighbor and neighbor or on the mosque around the corner. Those Dutch deserve our support, as they support us in such days. So we must not allow the anger to be directed at them. We won't let you. The agreements we have made are: better registration of Muslim hatred and adequate response if necessary, with security. That too is defending our rule of law. Minister Opstelten said this about the security of Jewish buildings and objects. I was at a special service on Sunday evening at the Jacob Obrechtshuel in Amsterdam. A few hours before that, they were called to that service. There were prayers for the victims in the Jewish supermarket. There were prayers and solidarity with what was happening in France. There was the fear palpable. This is not surprising after what has happened in Brussels and after what has happened in Paris. The ultimate vulnerability is felt. There is a great deal of work being done on safety. The government is helping. I have also made it very clear, on behalf of the cabinet, that we will do everything we can to provide protection. But there was more. There it was said that there is fear, that there is terror, but also that the Jewish community in the Netherlands will not be terrorized, that it will not be driven away. It also calls on the public authorities and fellow citizens not to allow this to happen. The president of the synagogue gave an impressive speech. In it he expressed his emotions as a Jewish Dutchman about what happened in France, in a history filled with tears and sorrow. He ended with the fact that he wanted to pay respect and pay tribute to non-Jews. He called Lassana Bathily, an employee of the Jewish supermarket who hid five Jews in the cooler. He turned off the cooling, hid people, could leave the premises, mothered to death, and was then considered a suspect. When the president of the synagogue told us about the honour that had to be shown to this Muslim from Mali, there was spontaneous applause in the packed synagogue full of emotion. This signaled to me the need, in this kind of days, to spread fear across borders, against this kind of violence and against the intent of terrorists who want to sow fear. In our approach to violent jihadism, of course, several Members of Parliament have referred to this as punishments, punishments and prosecutions, but also to their prevention. You can approach this in two ways: close to potential terrorists and generally to see it take away the soil. Different actions in the Action Plan are reflected in these different elements. Parents and the immediate environment of radical and/or radicalising young people are supported by the family support centre, which will start in the middle of this year. Here too, there is a special initiative from the Moroccan community, with its own hotline. We don't support that with money. It's not always subsidy. It's with training, with cooperation, with professionalization. Together with the municipalities we are developing local preventive approaches, because that's where it happens, that's where I'm convinced. In that respect, I agree with Pechtold. He pointed out once again the importance of what is called "the first line" in jargon. Those are just the teachers, the people in the youth care department, the GP. Samsom also talked about that. There you can recognize it; you can be there. But there are no guarantees here either. Even here, radicalisation sometimes happens very quickly. In his speech, Roemer said that I was touched by the very young boy from Maastricht, with whom things were very fast. So you can't be there all the time. But it is incredibly important to work well with the municipalities to recognize signals and then do something. The municipalities and professionals are supported by the centre of expertise for social stability. Indeed, expertise needs to be built up, but it also needs to be adapted to developments. The threats are different than they were ten years ago, and they continue to evolve. There must be cooperation with key figures. Local networks of key figures should be supported and trained where necessary to counter radicalisation. But agreements with the Islamic communities must also be made on professionalisation. There must be training where necessary in recognising and countering radicalisation. Samsom highlighted the importance of promoting the discussion on tolerance, on inclusive society. I agree with him. In these talks, you must stress the importance of freedoms on the one hand. On the other hand, you have to show that sometimes you have to be able to say painful, abrasive things to each other without having to demand from the other that he restricts his freedom. These talks are part of the adult defence of the rule of law, as is the meeting in the Knight's Room in November. We have brought together representatives of various religious and non-religious organisations as a result of tensions. We talked about common core values and the importance of not only defending your own freedom, but also the other's. A good example is the cooperation between CIDI and the Islamic community in better registering incidents of hatred. That is why there are talks about the rule of law. That's why we shouldn't get out of their way. That's why I thought it was a missed opportunity for the school in Heemskerk to avoid the conversation. It is the freedom of a school to choose how it teaches students what happens, but every time a school misses such an opportunity, it is a missed opportunity to prepare students for a society where there is no right to be hurt, but there is a responsibility of all of us to take account of others, and in the end freedom for everyone is so much greater because you do not restrict others'. It is therefore better to have that conversation and prepare young people for a successful future in the Netherlands. In the context of removing the breeding ground and combating discrimination and racism, I would mention the specific action plan against discrimination in the labour market. I am certainly also referring to combating youth unemployment, although I think we should be very careful to link the excessive youth unemployment to terrorism too quickly in one sentence or one argument. The perpetrators in France were neither young nor unemployed. Moreover, I do not want to put the many young people who, although they sometimes have to wait very long for work, persist, overcome prejudices, face the breeze and become a successful citizen in our society, on the pretext that they are potentially radical as a result of youth unemployment. However, it is important to combat youth unemployment, precisely in the context of our society, to quote Aboutaleb. Finally, I would like to mention the promotion of citizenship. By this I mean the citizenship of people who come here, for example through the declaration of participation and integration, and also the citizenship of young people who go to school here. That's what I do with my colleague Sander Dekker. There are some individual questions, which I will try to answer in the order of the speaker. Van Ojik, and in a way also Pechtold, asked about the budgets of municipalities and different parts. Municipalities make their own choices, but in the cooperation that Opstelten and I have with the municipalities, we see that municipalities, like us, give priority to combating radicalisation. Expertise is exchanged and assistance is provided if needed by providing additional expertise on radicalisation. Municipalities are not only capable but also willing and intending to use their resources to counter radicalisation. Mr President, I have come to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u280	I'll start with a compliment to Secretary Asscher. What he can always do very beautifully, with beautiful, anointing rhetoric, is to make everyone in this country feel that everyone counts and matters. Minister Asscher also mentioned the breeding ground for radicalisation and extremism. Have the events in Paris brought him to other insights, which is why he is going to intensify on certain points rather than just looking at the creation of expert groups and all kinds of other things that already come from the community itself? So what is the Minister going to do from his role as Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to ensure that the soil is removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u281	I thank Mr Kuzu for his kind words. I think you should answer that question on two levels. On the one hand, unfortunately, as we are dealing with a substantial level of threat, it is conceivable that attacks are taking place, including such attacks. You never know exactly where and how, otherwise it wouldn't have happened. This means, however, that nothing changes in the policy, which looks on a persecution side and on the prevention of exit but also on a preventive side, because such an attack is manifesting. There's another side too. The attacks themselves are a shock to society. They evoke intense emotions and feelings of fear among satirists, those who sometimes use freedom of expression for their own lives and police officers. It has already been recalled that the footage of the policeman's execution makes an insane impression on everyone, in the Jewish community as well as in the Muslim community. That is where we fear, unfortunately with some right, that the reaction to the attacks may be directed towards that community. This will require extra attention, which is why I had a very large number of talks last week to see where we can help, how we can show what we are doing and where we can provide assistance, but also to show commitment and solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u282	Should the Minister's view not go beyond just talking to people and providing information on how to do things better? Shouldn't he also ensure that there is a concrete approach? The Minister talks, in my words, about the balance between repression and prevention. Does he, as a Social Democrat, not think that we have gone in that balance towards repression and that we are doing too little about prevention? I can only hear the Minister say: I have spoken to him, I have been there and I have done this little research. Is that what this Minister is doing on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u283	It's right to always see if you're doing enough. Part of the discussion was about whether there is sufficient capacity in the police and in the services. In the same way, you have to ask yourself whether there is sufficient capacity in youth care and other first-line facilities. That was also in the debate. That's right. I have made a comment about youth unemployment, also to abstract a little bit and not to say too quickly that youth unemployment is so high that you are getting terrorism. I think that is a really dangerous approach. As Minister of this cabinet, as Deputy Prime Minister and therefore as a Social Democrat, I believe that if society is threatened by terror and terrorism, if democracy is at stake in this respect, you must do both. And that's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u284	During work visits on this subject, I see a lot of good work being done to prevent radicalisation. However, sometimes I also get signals that there is not enough firm substantive reply to young people who say they have very good arguments for their radical vision. That youth worker or moderate imam I'm running into doesn't really have a strong story at all. Now it is not for the government to come up with its own answers, but does the Minister recognize this point? And does he think it is important to ask attention from the Muslim community to invest in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u285	Mr Van der Staaij has a good point, in both respects: in the limitation which the government has in its interference with the way people interpret their own religion and their own writings, but also in the fact that there is little reply, that there seems to be little open theological debate, or at least that not everyone is sufficiently concerned with a reply. In a society in which we as individuals have rights, I think it is important that people as individuals feel the freedom of interpretation and that they do not always allow themselves to be interpreted literally by others about how to behave or how to practice their religion. However, the main counterpower will have to come from the community itself and from individual Muslims. I quote Van der Laan when I say that courage is not the absence of fear. You can see that those who are brave now have to pay a big price for that. That is also a sad observation. And then the government will be at stake. Those who are brave have already been mentioned: they are the Ibrahim Wijbengas and also some in this Chamber. This applies both to Mr Marcouch and to Mr Wilders, in his own way. The government must be there to protect their freedom as well. I am convinced that if we raise our children in the freedom of debate and the freedom of faith, which are the hallmarks of our society, that rebuttal can also come to maturity. If we are too afraid for those conversations, people may feel constrained in the freedom to develop their own interpretation or view, or to continue to think for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u286	This put an end to the first deadline for the Government's response. I suggest we proceed immediately with the second term. I give the floor to Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u287	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that returned jihadists are currently free in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas every effort must be made to prevent terrorist attacks;]] [[calls on the Government to make administrative detention possible as soon as possible so that these jihadists can be arrested and detained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the threat of an attack in the Netherlands is high and the capacity of our intelligence services needs to be substantially increased;]] [[noting that the non-compulsory part of the development aid budget can be used for this purpose;]] [[calls on the government to double the budget of our intelligence services as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-275]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Klaveren and Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u288	Mr. Chairman. This debate was about what the government and politics can do in the aftermath of the terrible events in Paris. It is always easy to be cynical about the outcome of such a debate, but I am actually positive about it. Although Paris is still chasing and a lot of lessons could still be learned, we can already see the first signs of what remains after Paris. This is first of all the fear, the fear of everyone in Europe, but of specific groups in particular. I call the Jewish community, which was literally hit. I refer to the Muslim community, which is rightly or at least supported by the events of the last week, fearing repercussions and hatred. What we see are dormant risks of division, of hatred, of mutual anger. And against these consequences of the attacks, the government must do everything in its power. While there is some discussion in the fight against fear about the precise use of weapons, about the precise measurement of certain legal measures, there is a great consensus, which I am pleased to see at least in the cabinet, that we must ensure that we do not lose sight of the fact that the rule of law is being violated where we want to protect him. In the fight against division and hatred, I actually see a unanimous or almost unanimous political response. Hate and division can never be answered with new hatred and new divisions. It has to be connected, and that is actually the most difficult task. I note that at the moment the cabinet has not made very firm, concrete commitments on top of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. That is good, because there too: do not make sudden, lukewarm movements, but hold on to the set course. I do see, particularly in the case of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, but this time also in the case of the Minister for Security and Justice, more sense of urgency when it comes to preventive measures, when it comes to combating radicalisation, when it comes to getting there early, when it comes to the mentality that we need. That is what my group is optimistic about. Are we done? No. Will we be debating this very often? Oh, yeah. Let us hope that this will not be necessary as a result of a new Paris event, but let us keep to ourselves when it comes to fighting the hatred, division and fear that have crept into this society. It's up to us to get it out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u289	Madam President, on the cause of all this misery, Islam, this murderous ideology that has established itself as a serpent in our society, I can only conclude that it is still a great taboo here in the House of Representatives. When I look around, I think we're back in the pre-Pim Fortuyn era, because people are afraid to talk about it and come up with politically correct talk. The necessary measures are not taken either. The cabinet still doesn't let jihadists leave, but let them return. Immigration from Muslim countries is not being stopped. Schengen will not be abolished. The army will not be deployed and so on. But the cabinet also ended my first term with it... will not be able to ignore reality. More and more people are watching. More and more people want less Islam. More and more people want a free and safe Netherlands and are no longer fooled by all those people here who are lying about the causes of this misery. The cabinet won't be able to stop that either. The people will turn the tide sooner or later. Let me make three motions, one on the cause of the misery and two on the possible solution, and try to get a majority of the House on our side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that Islam is the cause of Islamic terrorism;]] [[believes that Islam does not belong to the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government, the Netherlands, to de-Islamicize,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to allow jihadists who leave the Netherlands to fight for Islam to leave and to denaturalize it and to ensure that they never enter our country again through the termination of the Schengen Convention and the establishment of border controls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders and Mr De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-277]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders and Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u290	My final motion concerns the safety of important objects in the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, the military/marechaussee to secure stations, streets, shopping centres and other vulnerable public places in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders and Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u291	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the answers given. This debate is about what to do after the terrible attacks in Paris. The words of horror have been spoken, but now there will have to be action. In my second term, I am short on a number of subjects that have been discussed. The first is the debate on the size of our intelligence and security services. The Prime Minister said they can handle anything, and so they're actually big enough. But we know how big the problems are in practice and that is why I support those who say that money should be added to the AIVD. The CDA therefore joins those who say: the General Intelligence and Security Service must be strengthened. We have also talked about the various legislative pathways of the cabinet. I have interrupted the Minister of Security and Justice on this matter and it has shown that the cabinet does not do more than before after this attack. The cabinet should simply say that and not give the Dutch the suggestion that it does more. Either it does more as a result of an attack and because the danger is so great or it doesn't, but the cabinet can't do both. The debate on how the police should be armed was also remarkable, and I do not think that is the main issue. Mr Zijlstra asked for machine guns in the police. The Minister of Justice said: yes, we are not going to do that. That remains unsatisfactory to me. It's "yes" or it's "no." The Minister said 'yes' yesterday in the daily newspaper, but it is now 'no'. Finally. If Europe comes up with measures to finally put security first and ask people to have travel data stored so that the terrorists can be removed. My group does not think that the Netherlands should then go against a debate on 4 September, but I am not confident that the cabinet will not do so. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the interests of safety in the Netherlands, it is necessary to have a better understanding of flight data in order to be able to closely monitor travelling and returning jihad fighters;]] [[Whereas active steps are currently being taken at the European Council to establish a uniform flight data exchange system;]] [[calls on the Government to give priority to security and therefore to actively contribute to the creation of a European database and the exchange of flight data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u292	Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Chamber and in the cabinet has rightly expressed their disgust at the attacks and what has happened. I recognise the growing solidarity among the population, against terror and other forms of extremism. Today's debate was about protecting our freedom and preventing extremism. For the debate, there have been many balloons: war law, automatic guns, extra security, the army... which have been pierced one by one today, but I haven't heard the cabinet propose any measures to deal with the extra pressure on the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In fact, several parts of the police force remove capacity. Neighborhood cops disappear from the streets and things don't get accepted for a long time. To the extent of disaster, there will also be additional cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police in the near future. Prevention is more than just talking. It means more attention to integration, to discrimination, to opportunities for young people and to education. It means paying attention to monitoring and accompanying vulnerable young people. We still see many young people disappear into isolation. We must open our eyes instead of closing them. What we certainly should not do is turn people against each other or turn 1 million people into potential terrorists. Finally. Perhaps it is quite typical that the cabinet has not mentioned one of the causes of growing terrorism, the failing foreign policy. It says something that we let go of this form of growth of extremism and not speak a word about it, let alone discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u293	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for answering all the questions. The cabinet, the Minister for Security and Justice in particular, has used a lot of muscle over the last few days with words such as 'we are going to step up our efforts in the fight against terrorism'. The suggestion was raised that the cabinet would take further measures that would further restrict our civil rights and freedoms for the sake of the fight against terrorism, that we would encounter agents with machine guns in the street under the guise of greater security. Luckily, Mr. Chairman, it turned out to be just a little rooster behavior. Nevertheless, my group is deeply concerned about the current legislative proposals, which will further undermine the basis of our open and free society. Fear is a bad counselor and I call on the Cabinet to stand up for all our freedoms. I refer to freedom of expression, but also to the fact that citizens remain free from massive, unfocused eavesdropping, storage of data by the State and far-reaching repression. These measures run counter to our free, open society and the rule of law. We must remain true to the value we want to protect. My group has gained much hope and confidence from all peaceful quiet trips and demonstrations in which people have collectively sent out an impressive signal against terrorism. Let us work on a society in which no one has to feel left out or feel less than the other. We believe that there are the best opportunities to nip radicalisation in the bud. A society in which principles such as compassion, personal freedom and personal responsibility prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u294	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. It is not a new observation, but from all the contributions this evening it became clear that there are no miracle means against jihadist terrorism. However, what can and must be done is a convincing mix of prevention and repressive measures. What can and must be done is continued alertness, speed in conducting investigations and a legislative programme that reflects the urgency of this situation. On a number of subjects, which I raised at first reading, motions have been tabled or are being tabled. I'll ask another question and file a motion. My question concerns the Dijkhoff motion on the investigation into the possible criminalisation of an exit to terrorist territory. This will be researched before the summer. In view of the urgency of the situation, can we look at whether this can be accelerated so that we can be more clear about it? My motion concerns the Public Prosecutor's Office and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Public Prosecutor's Office should be able to act swiftly and adequately in the detection and prosecution of suspects in the context of jihadist terror;]] [[Whereas additional funds have been made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office for the coming years;]] [[invites the Government to make this money available earlier if necessary in order to act as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Slob and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u295	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the first-term replies. We have signed a motion that Mr Pechtold will table. This motion is about the AIVD. We believe that, also looking ahead to developments, there should be sufficient human resources and resources to be able to cope with the tasks we are facing today. We have co-signed the Van der Staaij motion on the prosecution and I myself have tabled a motion on the Jewish institutions. The answer given by the cabinet on this point was not satisfactory for us. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Jewish institutions in the Netherlands unfortunately need permanent security;]] [[Whereas, despite an initial contribution at the state level, this still entails disproportionate security costs for the Jewish community;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the Jewish community in the Netherlands, to make arrangements for a more substantial financing of the security of Jewish institutions and to inform the Chamber of its outcome for the handling of the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u296	Mr. Chairman. We've talked about a lot of things. Those were sometimes very business points. We have also sometimes talked about matters that are not often spoken of in this Chamber, for example about fear. In that respect, Minister Asscher's contribution touched me when he told me about his experiences in the synagogue where the name of Lassana Bathily had been mentioned. It is indeed impressive what this Muslim, who worked in the Jewish supermarket, has done. Last week I also touched what Lilian Lepère did. He hid in a box for nine hours in order to have telephone contact with the police. These were ordinary people who managed to control their fear and did very special things. Those are heroes from whom we can draw hope again. At the point of fear and hope I had to remember the closure of The Passion, as it once happened. He then closed with the lyrics: give me your fear, I give you hope back. Let these people but also these words lead our efforts in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u297	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its reply and the opportunity to hold the debate. That was important, and that is important. It is important not only to reflect on something so horrible that the values on this continent are under pressure, but above all to look further politically, to analyse where it comes from and to seek solutions. The search for the solution is perhaps even more important than finding that solution. It was also partly a repeat of 4 September, and I actually use that word for my judgment: a repeat. I have not heard very much from the cabinet today. Although Minister Opstelten answered the questions more clearly, he also made it clear that the balloons he and others evoked all went back to the drawing table. My group is therefore particularly looking forward to the progress report on these 38 points. In the end, this will have to show whether the cabinet is really going to do something different than it was promised earlier. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the work of the security services is an important contribution to the protection of freedoms in our country;]] [[Whereas the increase in jihad-goers and their possible return may lead to a tightening capacity in the security services;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the security services with the capacity and finances to be able to do the necessary work even in the event of a sudden increase in the number of returning jihad-goers and to inform the Court of its outcome for the handling of the spring note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u298	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the answers given in the first term. We must ensure that the events of last week in Paris do not lead to divisions in our society, a wedge between peoples and religious groups and throughout the Netherlands. We need to be alert to that. I ask the Minister of Security and Justice to be extra alert to the examples I gave in my first term of increasing Muslim hatred towards individuals, prayer homes and mosques. That alertness must be there not only for the Jewish community but also for the Muslim community in the Netherlands. I would remind the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment once again that it is not just about talking and research here and research there, but also really needs to look at the breeding ground, at social backwardness. We need to keep talking. Mr Klein will be tabling a motion on this on our behalf. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u299	Mr Van Vliet renounces a second-term contribution. I shall now give the floor to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u300	Mr. Chairman. Let us answer, the Prime Minister called us to the Dam. Let us answer by speaking freely with each other, so that there will be no division in society. That should not only be good conversations between the cabinet and representatives of all kinds of organisations, but also conversations between, between and with people. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas terrorist attacks are committed by extremists;]] [[Whereas, in its letter of 14 January 2015, the Council of Moroccan Mosques Netherlands, like many other Islamic organisations, distanced itself from extremists and called for dialogue;]] [[Whereas a unilateral call for so-called undefined de-Islamicisation does not contribute to a secure tolerant society;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a National Tolerability Dialogue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klein and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u301	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to thank the rulers for answering the questions. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for Security and Justice for reminding me that there was an annex to that fine progress report. I'm telling you quite frankly, that wasn't an unnecessary luxury, that memory. However, in the debate on 4 September, to which I referred, it was also about something else, namely whether you can now also look at that package of 38 measures with the question of what, based on our past experience, we know about what works, what does not work, and what may sometimes be counterproductive or where we need a little tooth, in order to use the Minister's terminology once and for all. That is important because, I believe, this debate has once again shown that it is always a quest to find the right balance between prevention and repression. As far as repression is concerned, there are at least two points in my group that are too far-fetched. That is where it is about broadening the possibility of taking Dutch nationality. I am not going to repeat the arguments for this, but I am not reassured by the Prime Minister's reply. He is actually saying that once we have taken that nationality, we will indeed warn the other countries that we have done so. The other is declaring war law applicable. I believe that the International Crimes Act gives us ample legal opportunity to deal with crimes committed abroad. I believe that a further plea for or an appeal to war law does not add anything to that. My final comment concerns the prevention side. Much has been said about this, particularly by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I do not think we agree on the substance of this. I often hear of municipalities, in particular, where savings are made on community work, to give you an example. I'm hearing from organizations that don't get subsidies anymore. I'm hearing about projects that have been shut down. That might be a distorted image. The plan of 38 measures also includes new initiatives. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs whether he can give a more coherent overview of what is now available, both from the wealth and local resources, to further strengthen that preventive side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u302	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. One answer was very clear, but when I was on my way back there it led to a more detailed interpretation which apparently raised some uncertainty among colleagues. I'm gonna try to get that clarity anyway. It's about the armament. I heard the Minister say "yes" very clearly. I was happy about that. I'd like to make sure that's a yes. Something has happened with regard to the extra arms of the police. There is unrest among the agents who have seen what happened to their colleagues in Paris. I heard the minister right. He indicated that he understands that he sees that, that he is engaging in talks following the letter from the ACP and that, if more armament is needed, he is going to do so. The VVD thinks this is necessary, also in view of the signals we are getting. I understand that the Minister is responsible for the discussion, but let us be clear that we see that responsibility from the government and that we think it is necessary. I'd like to hear the Minister say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u303	I have a question for you anyway. It is in that sense that the answer, when Mr Pechtold asked the question, was 'no'. Now the Minister nods that it was indeed 'no', but I do not rule out the fact that it is 'yes' at the end of this second term. I hope for an indication when his last answer will be on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u304	I know this from the debates, both by Mr Buma and by Mr Pechtold. It happens sometimes that words are spoken a little differently than the one she said at first did, which makes the answer different. It's not that crazy if you put it something else in your interruption. I think that's what's going on here, too. I think it would be wise for us to have a clear answer from the Minister, as well as the first. I think the answer was "yes" then. It'd be nice if you did again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u305	You will soon be involved, Mr President, because you said that the answer is now clear. That answer was "no." It was the answer to the question whether these police officers will now receive automatic weapons within a week or within a month. The answer was "no" then. The only thing that is happening is that there is talk of the feelings being expressed and that we have at our disposal the military and the special forces that they do have. With regard to ordinary agents standing in front of a government building or otherwise, the clear answer was "no." Otherwise, I'm gonna need another interruption to the Secretary of State later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u306	Mr Pechtold has that opportunity. I would like to thank Mr Pechtold for confirming my statement that the question he asked was different from the one I asked. So it's not so crazy that in his eyes there might be some noise. Then he'll have to ask the same question. Let us be clear that we would like to hear whether the cabinet sees the signals that we are seeing and that the cabinet is talking about. We believe that adjustment is necessary. I did not receive an answer to a second question, namely the Royal Marechaussee. I have said that you can do two things: you can increase the arms of the police or deploy the Royal Marechaussee. I didn't hear anything about that question. I'd like to hear the Minister's answer. We had a debate in October 2014 on IS and the deployment of F16s. We now have a debate on the attacks in Paris. It is clear that our freedom is under heavy pressure and that we will have to fight for it. We as VVD will not run away from our responsibility. We will support all measures necessary to maintain, safeguard, defend and refrain from violence. We expect support from all those who love freedom. We expect them on an individual basis. We are not going to address groups because they are a group. We have never addressed left-wing people to the fact that the Rote Armee Fraktion did things. We have never addressed Moluccans to the fact that there were train hijackers and we will never address Muslims to the fact that there are terrorists among them. I would add that Islam as a religion has a great challenge, because it is also without prejudice to the fact that these barbaric terrorists, these extremists, rely on Islam. They use Islam. There's nothing we can do about it here. It is up to Muslims themselves to engage in that struggle and to ensure that their faith is safeguarded from those who use this faith in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u307	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The cabinet has indicated that it does not need a suspension. The Prime Minister will respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u308	Mr. Chairman. The thought is that I'll take care of the motions. A further question has been put to Mr Asscher, whom he may be able to answer. Then there are two further questions to Mr Opstelten, which he can answer. And then I'll do the motions. So my suggestion is that you give Mr Asscher the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u309	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u310	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ojik asked for an overview of what is available nationally and locally. Such an overview is hardly possible, because what part of the youth care budget can we count on preventing radicalisation and which part of the budget to primary education? So I do not think that that is the exercise that pays off much, nor the exercise that Mr Van Ojik is asking for. I would very much like to undertake, in the next progress report on the jihadism action plan, to address the point behind it, namely: do we have the impression that there is sufficient expertise in these municipalities and is sufficient in the first line? In the first place, I indicated that the cabinet agreed that it should be both: repression and prevention. Of course, you also have to look at whether this is being done adequately in practice. In this case, we do not need an overall overview of available resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u311	Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions. Mr Van der Staaij had a question about the investigation into the implementation of the Dijkhoff motion. It's complicated stuff. Where possible and justified, accelerations shall be applied. The cabinet also attaches great importance to the careful preparation of this legislation, especially as it is of a substantial nature. That is why this research is also very important in support of the draft law. The conclusion of the survey before the summer is therefore obvious, but I will see what we can do. Mr Zijlstra mentioned the police. I don't want to make any misunderstandings about that. That was my input yesterday. It is nice that there were two totally different headlines about the same article: one said yes and the other said no. However, that is what we are going through here in the debate. I feel like something's happened. That was the point, and I agree with the VVD Group. We must take this seriously. I get the letter. I'm gonna go talk to the unions. I'm talking to the police department. I have also said something about the substance of my responsibility. That fits, of course. That's why I'm starting these conversations. I have also said: of course I go in consultation with the unions and the police leadership to see if any adjustments are needed. Mr Pechtold asked: does that mean that all kinds of changes will take place in one or two weeks? I have to be clear about this in the sense that it will be no, but the consultation can of course lead to something. The second point is the KMar. Yeah, I forgot. This is a very useful suggestion which is already being discussed in consultation with Mr Hennis and the hair. Of course, I cannot say much more about this now, but the signal is absolutely clear. That consultation's already going on. That'll go well, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u312	Is the Minister's commitment that ordinary police officers are given automatic weapons when performing surveillance duties?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u313	Policemen get the equipment they need for their job. That's what it's all about, in every way and at any time. No one's being sent into the field if that's irresponsible. That's the point. We have a whole system that ends up at the highest in the spiral of violence, and that's the DSI. I think I should take this point seriously and that is also the point that led me to agree with the VVD yesterday. When I received a letter from the unions, I immediately said: I am going to consult with the unions and with the corps leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u314	Is the Minister of Security and Justice's deployment that ordinary police officers exercising security duties are armed with automatic weapons, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u315	That's the wrong question. You ask a question and you are not satisfied with my answer. Then ask another question, I'd say. You have already asked a lot of questions, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u316	I would like to give Mr Pechtold the opportunity to reword that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u317	Is the commitment of this minister, of this cabinet, to arming the ordinary police officer who is carrying out security duties, we all know what we are talking about with automatic weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u318	The stakes are to check and see if the armament is good, whether there could be a change here and there, given the questions that have been asked. I have already given an opinion on this on the basis of advice from the corps leadership, which I very much trust. You can't ask the question if the stakes are to give those guns to everyone. The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u319	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u320	Mr. Chairman. I would like an answer and otherwise I would like a suspension in order to be able to read the answer in the first period. We're having a serious debate. The Prime Minister also said it today. We have 50,000 police officers. They have feelings and we want to take them seriously in this debate. I just want a clear answer. You can just ask a cabinet what the policy commitment is, right? Bonds say yes. Corps says no. Other countries will do it that way. The Minister himself put it together fantasticly. One newspaper says: yes, the minister supports Zijlstra. The other newspaper says: no, the minister does not support Zijlstra. I do not think this debate can end like this. If you're gonna talk, you're gonna listen, but you're gonna have a commitment as a responsible minister yourself. I think those police officers, the 50,000 men, should know what the minister's bet is. He said no in the first term, and now he's leaving it in the middle. I just want to hear a yes or a no. If it's no, it's still no. If it is, then we have another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u321	The point is that you give the police the security and equipment that fits the task and function that is being performed at that time, such as security and surveillance tasks. I have given my position and that is my starting point. However, I have already said in the first term that I will naturally consult with the unions and with the corps leadership to see if any adjustments are needed. So I am also listening to the signals from the police themselves, from the police workers and from the professionals who are in charge of that, and that is the police leadership. That's my starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u322	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the motions. What in the motion-Van Klaveren to piece No. 275 states, it really doesn't fit into our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u323	So that's what you're telling her?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u324	Dissuade. Also the motion-Van Klaveren/Van Vliet on piece No. 276 I must advise against. The budget is enough now. We continue to follow closely whether and when action would be needed. The Wilders/De Graaf motion in part No. 277, I advise. We are against extremism and not against people who simply want to be part of our society and who are Muslims. The Wilders/Helder motion in part No. 278, I advise. This really is a fundamentally different vision. The Wilders/Helder motion in part No. 279, I'm not sure. We'll do whatever it takes. Every time, we look again and again to see if there is any reason to take additional measures. By the way, the Royal Marechaussee and the army already have an important role to play in protecting against extremism and jihadism. Then I come to the Van Haersma Buma/Van der Staaij motion on part No. 280. I, as well as the Minister for Security and Justice, have discussed it in detail: we are focusing on the conclusions of the debate on 4 September. That is also our commitment in Europe. Against that background, I advise against this motion. The motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 281 is a very sympathetic motion, but at the same time it is superfluous, because I have already promised all this. An unnecessary motion I always advise against. That's my habit, but if she's accepted, nothing changes either, because that's how we're gonna do it. But I'm gonna tell her off. The motion Slob/Van der Staaij in part No. 282 I also advise against. We are in consultation with the Jewish institutions on structural security measures. The motion talks about more substantial funding. That's ahead of schedule. I can also imagine Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij holding the motion until further information can be given on the progress of these talks. I'll give them that consideration. Then I come to the motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 283. I have already promised that we will always look ahead to see if the capacity is sufficient. If we come to the conclusion that more money is needed, so do we. That is an unnecessary motion, which I would therefore advise against. In the Klein/Kuzu motion in part No. 284 the government is invited to set up a national tolerance dialogue. It's already running. There are many activities in this area, such as the Knights' Hall meeting, already mentioned by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the social debate on the limits of the rule of law. The motion is superfluous, and for that reason I advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u325	The Prime Minister asked to hold the motion because the cabinet is now in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u326	That's about the motion in part No. 282, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u327	That's about the motion in part No. Debates of the European Parliament If we can get the results of this this month, I am prepared to hold on to her, because we have no need to move forward very far in time on that point. It's just that nails need to be punched in the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u328	I'm not ready for that. We'll send you a short note with that timetable. Then Mr Slob may decide at that time whether that is a reason for him to put the motion to the vote or to hold it. I'd like to find out exactly what the timetable is. Then there will be a short note of two rules with the timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u329	Fine. Then I'll give you the advice to do that already this month. If we have that note for Tuesday's votes, then we can make our minds up at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u330	Yes. Affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u331	We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday. Thank you very much to the cabinet for coming to the Chamber.
