ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. I may need a little more time than I initially thought. We'll see. Maybe it's not that bad. The Netherlands has been cut half to pieces by this cabinet, and now motorists are again screwed. The Dutch motorists turn out to be the milk cow of this cabinet. Rutte II and the Kunduz coalition have raised as much as EUR 5 billion from the Infrastructure Fund. Dutch people pay the highest price in the world for their cars: almost 20 billion a year Dutch drivers pay taxes, excise duties, pennies and VAT. Only about a tenth of that amount, that is, about EUR 2 billion, goes back to the roads. The rest of the 20 billion will be in the state budget. Motorists are therefore a real milk cow for this cabinet. To that we, the ordinary, hardworking Dutch people with a car, all pay with it. The accessibility of the Rotterdam region has been under pressure for years. The opening of the Second Maasvlakte creates an increasing traffic on the roads. The PVV naturally wants the Dutch infrastructure to be among the best in the world. It's supposed to be, if you want to be the best port in the world. This includes the best roads in the world. The second bank connection between the beautiful Voorne-Putten and Maassluis-Vlaardingen is crucial for our world port. The Orange Tunnel would be a better alternative, but well, the Cabinet has chosen the Blankenburg Tunnel. It's incredibly necessary. The A15 is the main connection between the port of Rotterdam and Germany. I drive over it every day and I see it getting busier every day since the Second Maasvlakte was put into service. But also for people from Spijkenisse, Rozenburg, Maassluis, Voorne-Putten and the Westland this tunnel is very important. He creates new opportunities for entrepreneurs. People will be able to work easier on the other side of the Nieuwe Waterweg and no longer have to drive all the way over the A4. However, because the Rutte II cabinet has drawn so much money from the Infrastructure Fund and would like to raise taxes again to pay the left-wing hobbies of the PvdA in Brussels, we will be able to pay a toll when we drive to work. So on top of the highest car taxes in the world there is also a toll to be paid, and that in an area where traffic jams are so notorious. While the Botlek tunnel is blocked so often, the residents of Voorne-Putten, the Westland and Maassluis can pay as much as €2.36 for each return trip. That's a disgrace. The PVV will be happy to vote against it. In this way, the inhabitants of Rijnmond pay a new, additional tax for their mobility, a kind of Rutte regional tax. In particular, the inhabitants of Rijnmond will receive many additional acceptance giros from this cabinet. Is the Minister prepared to provide all these additional acceptance giros in Rijnmond with the text "Thanks to the PvdA and the VVD you can pay extra"? In addition to the objection about the money it costs, I have a lot of other objections and questions to the Minister. How are foreigners gonna pay? I mention all those cars from Romania and Bulgaria. Believe me, there are quite a few in my region; I always see them on the road. I believe that a few Bulgarian accounts have remained unpaid and that this cabinet is not really successful in recovering money from Bulgaria. We are very concerned that the inhabitants of Bulgaria, Romania or other countries will not be paying at all. What are the collection costs of all these acceptance giros? How much does all this cost? Will motorists be caught with collection costs if they forget to pay or have been on vacation? I have another question for the Minister. Can a next government, a government that hopefully belongs to the PVV, immediately stop the toll at no extra cost? Can the Minister guarantee that there will never be VAT on top of the toll, as happened at the Westerschelde tunnel? This was not subject to VAT in the past, but is now subject to a different construction. And what does Europe think of that? Brussels is also involved in this kind of thing. The second bank connection Rotterdam and the ViA15 at Zevenaar are absolutely necessary, but the Minister himself states that there is a choice between paying and driving. But detours, which is apparently an option for this minister, create additional traffic jams on the A15 and the A4. Driving around provides extra unnecessary fuel consumption. And detours make for an inefficient use of an in itself expensive tunnel. Of course, that's three times stupid. Is the Minister prepared to repeal this law and start quickly with the construction of the tunnel and the ViA15 without additional costs for the Dutch drivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u2	The PVV today criticises this bill, quite rightly, but it was the PVV itself that agreed to toll. The PVV was for the Blankenburg tunnel and for the extension of the A15. At that time, the Minister announced and submitted to the Chamber that tolls would be levied for the financing of these roads. The PVV simply agreed to that. So can Mr Madlener explain where that twist came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u3	The opposite is true: the PVV is against tolling on Dutch roads. I just explained why, because we're already paying enough taxes. In fact, at the time the agreement was made that no toll would be paid by motorists at this tunnel. So what Mr Bashir is saying here is wrong. The PVV is against tolling. We're already paying way too much for our car.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u4	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u5	The Minister has often submitted to the Chamber that she needed money to build these roads, that she did not have that money and that she therefore wanted to take a toll. All these times, the PVV has supported the Minister in choosing to build these roads in this way. It's the first time I've heard the PVV talk about tolling. I haven't heard the PVV before about tolling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u6	Then I must refresh Mr Bashir's memory. I even saw a motion filed by the PVV against tolls. I can show it to you; it's on my desk. So that's wrong. Mr Bashir wrongly questioned the PVV. The other side is of course that the SP is not for extra roads at all. The SP always wants to scrap roads. Making congestion longer is bad for the environment, bad for the economy and bad for the driver. So, Mr Bashir, please do not come to me with this kind of nonsense question if you yourself are so bad for the Dutch roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the second bank connection, the SP is for the construction of the Orange Tunnel. We fought hard in this room for that, too. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for this. But when it comes to the Blankenburg tunnel and the extension of the A15, it is true; then we are in favour of deleting these projects. These are projects with little local support, for which there are also good alternatives. If these projects had not taken place, we would not have had to debate the introduction of tolls on both roads. The result we are now getting is really bizarre. The Minister is convinced that both infrastructure projects are of great importance and are good for accessibility. It is then striking that it will then adopt a policy of discouragement by charging tolls, with the result that many drivers and freight traffic will choose a different route. With this, the Minister of these roads makes expensive investments that only the elite will use. They're gonna be elite roads. The Minister is trying to give the impression that funding can only be obtained by charging tolls. Funny, because we already have excise duties, mrb, bpm and VAT. Is that still not enough? In the past, the VVD felt that drivers contributed too much to the state treasury. Now, apparently, it can't be enough. If this Minister sums up the excise duties, the vehicle tax, the bpm and the VAT, it is difficult to maintain that there is also a toll to be added to this. I am not even talking about the many speeding fines that the state treasury has been making since this minister, with her 130 km/h, made a big, inconvenient mess of the highways. Can the Minister indicate the ratio of annual contributions from drivers and freight to annual expenditure? The Netherlands for a long time had a ban on charging tolls on roads. This ban has already been released and now it is slowly opening the door to more toll roads. At the end of the 1920s, the House of Representatives took care of the existence of toll roads in the Netherlands. A ban on the levying of tolls was even introduced. That didn't just happen. No, that was preceded by intense and fierce debates. Today we looked at the texts of the debates at the time. On 26 October 1926 SDAP-Kamerlid Van der Waerden compared the lifting of tolls with the raising of blood money. Nota bene a cabinet in which a VVD minister is responsible for traffic decides to take toll again on roads for which too little money has been made available. That's really incomprehensible. There must be support for taxes, especially if there are opportunities to escape. And there are, because motorists can just turn around and avoid toll roads. This means little good for the support. The majority of motorists, 69% in this case, are opposed to tolling on new roads. Motorists think they pay enough. What does the Minister think of the acceptance of tolls? The SP foresees that the implementation of this law will also raise the necessary problems. Motorists who occasionally use the Blankenburg tunnel or the A15 must transfer their own toll. They must register in advance or transfer the money afterwards. If you forget this, you will receive a warning with €7 in additional costs. Does the Minister consider these additional costs reasonable? Can she explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u8	I hear Mr Bashir saying that there is little local support. However, he knows, as I do, that the regions contribute to the creation of these roads. Is that not a sufficient signal of support in these regions? Where does Mr Bashir find that there would be no support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u9	I've spent enough time at demonstrations and demonstrations around the Blankenburg tunnel. I've been there for an action, too. At the place where the Blankenburg tunnel has to go, a lot of trees have been planted. This action was co-organised by a former chamber member. If the Blankenburg tunnel ever arrives again, I hope that those trees will not be so large that we can stop the construction of the tunnel. Many people, including administrators and municipal councils, have spoken out against the Blankenburg tunnel. For example, Vlaardingen is a major opponent of the Blankenburg tunnel. Moreover, there are good alternatives, such as the Orange Tunnel. There is more support for that, also locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u10	At some point a democratic choice has been made. Mr Bashir ignores my remark that money is coming from the region to enable these projects. He points to all kinds of action groups, but they're almost always there. Does Mr Bashir wish to comment on the fact that the region is paying extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u11	There are additional payments from the region and from the state treasury, but that is still not enough. After all, the Minister wants to charge 602 million extra tolls, and the necessary implementation costs will also be added. Then look at the overall picture and the local support. I didn't see Mr. Houwers when I was there. If Mr Houwers himself had been there, he would have been able to see on the spot how much support there is. I think he'd have formed another image. It is also strange that a very new payment system should be introduced for these two roads. I just told you 602 million has to be collected. The implementation costs are 118 million euros. So you're talking about implementation costs of 20%. Is that fair? Do we have to patch up the $602 million by $118 million? The total sum thus amounts to 720 million. Is that fair? Then there's the problem with vehicles with a foreign license plate. How are these users taxed? It would be very strange if lorries with a foreign license plate did not pay a toll, while the Dutch drivers were going to pay a nice toll. How does the Minister intend to guarantee that everyone who uses these toll roads will also pay? What about the extra €7 that Dutch drivers have to pay when they forget to report in advance or forget to pay afterwards? Is this €7 also cashed on foreign license plates? What about the collection costs? Have foreign registrations been taken into account? Finally, I have a question about the 118 million implementation costs. How much money is involved with foreign plates? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u12	I have heard Mr Bashir say in particular that more money needs to go to roads. I am very pleased that Mr Bashir is saying this, because I assume that the SP will do butter to the fish next autumn at the MIRT meeting. In the previous counter-budget presented by the SP in the Chamber, savings were mainly made on roads. So I'm curious about the SP's ambition when it comes to roads. Will the SP put butter on the fish next autumn at the MIRT meeting and shift extra money to roads?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u13	What Mrs Visser apparently cannot achieve in the coalition, she is trying to do to me. We are clear on roads. We are in favour of good infrastructure, good railways and good roads, but that does not mean that we believe that everything needs to be built now. We can also make a pass on the spot once in a while, save longer and then build roads that everyone can use. Remember that the A15 and Blankenburg Tunnel are billions of investments. Billions are going to be invested to build these roads, and not everyone will be able to make use of them, because only 602 million more will be required to be collected by toll. The moment you save longer, you can just build the roads later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u14	This is a very creative way of not answering my question. I will therefore ask my question again. Mr Bashir forgot to tell us that last year, in the counter-budget, the SP saved just 300 million on the road network. He forgot to mention that. I hear him pleading that there should be more money. He will understand that the VVD will find that a very good starting point for the discussion in the coming autumn. I wonder how the SP's gonna do that. I would remind Mr Bashir that the toll was already announced in 2006, ratified in 2009 and again in 2011. So it's not something new. Both connections score very well in the SME analysis. This analysis shows that transport movements are increasing, even if you do not do so, precisely on the underlying road network. I am curious to see what solution the SP offers if there is no toll and these roads are not there. How does the SP intend to solve the hustle and bustle around Rotterdam and in the East of the Netherlands? What he just suggested, moving it up, is not going to work; that will only lead to more traffic jams.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u15	I've heard a lot of questions. It's easy for me to get a nice one out of that. Next week, Mrs Visser will be able to see our counter-budget. I will not leak out of that, unlike the ministers. So that's what Mrs Visser has to wait for. We have discussed the links at length. We discussed the positions in the Chamber. We have chosen the Orange variant of the bank connection and for that we have put forward our arguments extensively. If Mrs Visser had listened then, she could now have known why we are in favour of the Orange connection and not, for example, the Blankenburg tunnel. When it comes to financing, we are fundamentally opposed to building roads with tolls. If you want to build roads, you have to make them publicly accessible. They are paid from the general budget. The moment you pay something from the general budget, everyone should be able to use it. At the same time you're gonna charge a toll, you're gonna throw up a threshold that people can't drive through, which I think the VVD wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. I want to do three things today: go through the law, the criticism of the Council of State and the reaction of the cabinet to it. I would also like to propose an amendment. With this proposal for a law, the government intends to give substance to the need to create a legal basis for charging tolls on two routes: the Blankenburg tunnel and the ViA15. The toll will be limited in duration until the amount of revenue to be financed from tolls has been realised. This means that for road users there will be a cost of driving through the Blankenburg tunnel and over the ViA15, well over €1,18. Let me go straight to the criticism of our group on the legislative proposal. It is in line with what the Council of State previously adopted. The Commission considered that the proposed charging system for the citizen I would never use that word myself, but that it is disproportionately burdensome, in particular because of the lack of a form of notification by way of an invoice or a notice of formal notice. The toll rate shall be paid by the registration holder of the motor vehicle using the route. It is automatically due and should be regarded as an administrative debt within the meaning of Article 4:88 of the General Administrative Law Act. In short, there is an obligation to pay without a decision. A number of points deserve attention, first of all the support. Anyone who uses it pays. That is why we signed the CDA's amendment I expect his spokesperson to explain it more in his own time frame in order to have foreign registrations paid as well. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then the payment system. Together with the VVD, we propose to remove the payment system, where the registration holder is the person liable for the payment obligation and the method of vehicle registration. In doing so, we, as legislators, open up the possibility of introducing at a later date a system in which the liability is different from the registration holder. A registration holder with an unjustified order must wait for a fine before it is possible to appeal against the charge imposed. This is only possible as a result of a fine imposed. However, it is possible to go with a complaint to one of the service points to be set up. However, this is not a formal appeal. In the case of the objection that this is not a formal appeal, we can accept it, but it is necessary that the service is set up in a accessible manner. Can the Minister explain how she sees it? Then disproportionately burdening people. A letter of formal notice has now been issued. With the current price level it costs €7 on top of the €1,18 toll. An administrative fine of €35 will follow. The cabinet has indicated to follow the level of the fine in public transport. As far as we are concerned, that is a rather vague comparison. Why this equation? As the amount of the fine in public transport is increased to €70, this raises the question of whether this amount will also apply to the toll fine. That is with the first amount of €1.18 in tolls, I say it with a certain sense of understatement. That's not supposed to happen, is it? The amount goes over 59 times. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, some reflection, under the title "reasonability." The late Willem Witteveen writes in his magnum opus The law as a work of art I recommend that everyone read it; I am not speaking of the eight minimum requirements of Lon Fuller, which constitute an internal morality of law. In translation: a set of basic expectations that must be met in order to recognize an authority-claiming text as law. I will not go over all eight points, but I believe that the legislative proposal before us meets seven of the eight requirements. My question to the Minister concerns the sixth requirement: one should not make rules that cannot be reasonably observed. That's pretty simple, but the word "reasonably" is ambiguous. What's reasonable? Is it reasonable to expect road users to be obliged to pay tolls after signs on the side of the road have shown that this is an obligation? I am thinking here of the 130-mile-per-hour discussion. Even if there is a moral obligation and legislation is a two-way street, it is so polite to the people who are dealing with it, I wonder. For after the moral obligation has passed, there is the act, the practical objections. The implicit contract between government and people can only exist with the confidence that that requirement of reasonableness is met. Therefore, as regards the PvdA, there should be a start-up period during which an invoice is sent before sending an equal notice and at €7 additional costs. In this way, the acceptance of tolls will be increased and the reasonableness of complying with rules has been somewhat restored. That is why we are proposing a legislative amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u17	I have just referred in my contribution to the implementation costs of this bill, which amount to about 20%. Does Mr Hoogland consider that reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u18	I think that's a complicated question. I have looked a bit at the international lists of what it costs to implement such a project. Then you see different things. It depends a little on how tolls are levied, what the systems are and what country you're talking about. In Portugal it is quite high. I've been there this summer and I think you might as well not pay there. However, there are also countries that are doing it more efficiently. I think it's hard to estimate. In my view, we should jointly instruct the cabinet to reduce costs as much as possible and thus reduce costs for users.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u19	Actually, I can't get an answer to my question. The cabinet therefore wants to raise EUR 602 million net, so it really needs to raise EUR 720 million. That is EUR 118 million extra, 20%. I find that unreasonable. If you're talking about the driver for almost 120 million in execution costs alone, I think you're talking about high costs. I would have preferred Mr Hoogland to have gone into this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u20	I'll do that briefly, because I think it's a rather one-dimensional approach just to look at those costs, because you also want a good system, of course. It is not known what these systems will look like in the future. I would rather have a good system that costs 20% than a bad system that costs 10%. That is why I think we should stay away from making statements now on whether or not these costs are high. I think it is right that the government should keep us informed of the systems that exist and of the proposals it intends to make in this area and that we should then review them. I do not think we should say that 20% is too much, because otherwise we may opt for a system that does not work and then I know who is the first to request a debate on this matter in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u21	If I understand correctly, the PvdA says: toll is fine as long as an invoice falls on the doormat. You know as well as I do who's gonna pay those bills. Those are the inhabitants of Voorne-Putten. Voorne-Putten has had a accessibility problem for years. The second Maasvlakte has been built and this tunnel is really necessary in the infrastructure network of Voorne-Putten because otherwise the inhabitants of the island will not get off. You know the problems with the Spijkenisserbrug and the Botlektunnel. It's just overloaded there and it's getting more and more crowded. Why is the PvdA going to charge the inhabitants of that area, the Rotterdammers and the Rijnmonders with extra toll?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u22	This too is a little too easy as far as I am concerned. The construction of these roads has a history in which a number of paths have been selected to take toll. There was also the A13/A16. That was three trajectories. History has just been told: 2003, 2006 and 2011 Who was in the cabinet again? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my So I guess we shouldn't play a game of who's where the bill is. You have to look real. If you choose to build this infrastructure, you can choose not to do some of the things that are currently in the planning. So then we don't put on the A13/A16 or the A9/Zuidasdok and then we choose to finance this completely. That's a choice. You can make it. The cabinet proposes to do this differently, namely to finance part of it by toll. Does that make the PvdA happy? No. Can we settle for that? Yes, because it is a reasonable solution and the rate is also reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u23	This toll tunnel, which opens up Voorne-Putten, will mainly be used by people from the Rijnmond region who want to go to work every day. They will pay for that tunnel and they will be burdened with additional costs because you have made a selection from the Infrastructure Fund. So you take money away from infrastructure and then say to the Rotterdammer: you're going to pay nicely for that tunnel. That's not fair, is it? Why do you charge Rotterdam with this extra tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u24	The real tax and the problem for Rotterdammers was mainly in the A13/A16. That was a road that Rotterdammers used a lot. That's where the toll's off now. As I have just said, I think that funding makes it necessary to apply tolls. That's not funny. Everyone knows that. So let's not pretend we're billing people. We finance a solid infrastructure project in a solid way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr Hoogland points out that it would be a good thing if there were a reminder, because he mentions a statement for the costs. They would only be €1.18, but then get out of hand hugely. He's got a solution to that. I share that solution in itself. What I do not understand, however, is why, as far as he is concerned, that would only be for one year. It's about the occasional user. There are also occasional users who drive through that tunnel for the first time or over that ViA15 after two or three years. Why does he only need that for one year? Why couldn't you do that anymore? Because I'd rather do it a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u26	I'd rather do it as long as I can. I can't see the financial consequences right now. I am open to getting a reaction from the cabinet in the first instance. Then we can make a more informed decision. Maybe it should be a little longer or maybe a little shorter. A second point is that you also want an awareness effect to take place. I've chosen that awareness for a year now, but that's arbitrary. If that works, I can't say quite in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u27	May I conclude from this that Mr Hoogland and I might still be able to find each other in a different period than a year? That might not be for an indefinite period, but still for a longer period. Can we make sure that people get a little more used to it and we get it a little more reasonable? Am I hearing that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think it would be wise to wait for that, depending on what the costs are and what the implementation looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u29	Like the spokesperson of the PvdA, I also have some questions and criticisms. The latter can really be heard in Mr Hoogland's contribution. The coalition parties haven't been idle. The VVD and the Labour Party have tabled a number of amendments which undress this Minister's bill. However, they are also amendments which strengthen the position of the Chamber as regards the follow-up. I can only see two versions of the amendments. In the first amendment, the Chamber has more control and control. A large part of the execution comes in a General Measure of Management, i.e.: it has to be hung up and the Chamber can talk about it as well. However, in the second version this has been slightly weakened, by not including the implementation plans in an AMvB. Can Mr Hoogland explain the difference between the two versions of these amendments? Does he agree with me that it's important for the Chamber to keep control?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u30	What numbers are you talking about? If we know that, we can watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u31	I am talking about the amendment to item No. 14, the amendment tabled by Mr Fisher/Hoogland to replace the amendment tabled by Mr Fisher/Hoogland on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u32	I can only share my intentions. The intention is that the plan, as stated in the new version, will do the same as the AMvB would initially do. Without us becoming too technical, that is the intention. But for the sake of fairness, I cannot answer Mrs Hachchi's question entirely. That is why I would like to direct him to the cabinet and ask the cabinet to indicate the difference. It has been suggested to us for technical reasons. If the reasons are different, I am open to looking at them again. The intention is that the plan made by the Ministry will be submitted to the Chamber. I cannot judge whether this is better in an AMvB or in a plan as stated in the new amendment. So I'm gonna leave that right here in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u33	I am therefore curious to see what the Minister will say about this. Mr Hoogland cannot assess the difference between a General Measure of Management and a plan submitted to the Chamber. I understand from the first version that there is actually little left of the Minister's bill, except that we conclude that there will be a toll. But for the rest, we don't know how it's going to be carried out. In the first version everything is open and comes to the Chamber via the instrument of a General Measure of Governance. In the second version, I see that an important part, namely the implementation plan, is not presented as a General Measure of Management. I think Mr Hoogland is prepared to respond to the question of whether he thinks it is important for the Chamber to have control over progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mrs. Hachchi gave the answer herself. That's the intention. If it isn't, we're just gonna change it. The intention of the plan is that everything that was initially arranged via AMvB will be submitted to the Chamber via that plan. If it turns out that that is technically wrong, we will come back to this. But we must leave it at that in terms of technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. With this decree we take another step towards the realization of the Blankenburg connection and the extended A15. This is important, because both routes are missing links that are extremely important for both drivers and the transport sector. They will make an important contribution to strengthening the Dutch infrastructure and thus to reducing congestion in the regions. Let us therefore quickly take the necessary follow-up steps! This is the first step towards the route decision and thus towards the moment when we can actually put the shovel in the ground. As far as we're concerned, we need to get that shovel in the ground as soon as possible, because we've been talking about this for a very long time. In my interruption towards Mr Bashir, I indicated for a reason that the decision on the A15 was already taken in 2006. Then Minister Peijs presented to the Chamber that it wanted to achieve this, but with a toll. In 2009 the same was done by then Minister Eurlings in the case of the Blankenburg connection, because he also said it could only be done with a toll contribution. Fortunately, a toll connection has also gone off over time. It was initially the intention to implement the A13/A16 also by means of a toll. In 2013, the Minister decided not to do so. That's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u36	I am curious to hear from Mrs Visser what she means by saying that it was prepared in 2006 and that it is only now being implemented. The VVD is in this cabinet, we're talking to a minister of the VVD house and this cabinet is presenting the bill to the Chamber. That doesn't exactly make me understand what she means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u37	I gave a historical overview to remind you that we have been talking about both roads for a long time. That is why, as far as we are concerned, the shovel is going into the ground as soon as possible. That is why this decision is needed. If Mr Bashir wants to know what the VVD is about, I would remind him that we will be voting in favour of this bill. We do not do that because we want to take a toll, but because we only have one choice: either toll and these two connections or no toll and no roads. The VVD then opts for these roads with a temporary toll.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u38	The driver pays road taxes, bpm, excise duties and VAT. There has indeed been talk of toll for a long time, but it is now the VVD that is going to introduce that toll.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u39	I accept this observation for notification. I told you, we're opting for temporary tolling. That word 'temporarily' is very important to us. Furthermore, we only agree with tolls on these two connections. We therefore consider it an important starting point for the legislative proposal that it is delineated to both ways. As far as we are concerned, this really is a one-off law and we really only introduce that toll once. As far as we are concerned, it will be the last toll law in the Netherlands. I have studied the law well and I dare say that I believe the Minister shares this view. Mr. Chairman. Not a day longer tolls may be charged than is necessary. I would therefore like to hear what will happen if it becomes apparent in the future that it is possible to reduce the toll earlier. I don't have a glass ball, but maybe that's possible. How flexible is this legislation and the route decision to be taken? Can we then cut the toll and withdraw the toll decision as soon as possible? What procedures should be followed and how quickly can it be done? Can the Minister reflect on that? I ask that because it must be clear that, if possible, we will stop this toll immediately and that we will not have to go through a whole circus of procedures and participation. I come to a point that has been mentioned earlier by a number of colleagues. We are delighted that we will be able to cross that road in the near future. As far as we're concerned, the sooner the better. But I would like to draw attention to the communication on the toll road. It must be a party to drive over, but not a party for the collection agencies. How's the Minister gonna take care of this? The €7 reminder fee is fixed in other laws and regulations. That principle is also upheld in this law. But how do we ensure that there are effective incentives in the system, so that we can reduce the cost of warning and that this amount does not remain €7? Mr Hoogland already indicated: how proportional does the Minister consider the €7 in relation to the toll of €1.18, when it comes to the motorist, which has to be paid? Then I come to another important point. I think everything stands or falls in communication: you drive a toll road, and what does that mean? It has to be clear that you're going to have to pay. What guarantees can the Minister give, whether or not in the tender process, that the driver and the transporter are really well informed, so that those who want to do well are not obstructed? In the legislative proposal we read that a "Design, Build, Finance and Maintain" contract is chosen and that it is chosen not to include operational risks and "traffic volume risks," as it is so beautifully called. As far as we are concerned, there should be incentives in the contract, especially for communication purposes, so that road users are reminded that they are on toll roads and that they are bound by obligations, and so that road users are aware of them. The answer excludes a number of risks which could be included in the procurement contract. Why is that? Is the Minister prepared to take another look at that? The following point has already been raised by a number of colleagues; we also asked questions about this last summer. In the meantime, I am a bit lost in the jungle: when can we or can we not proceed to fines and especially inning for foreign registrations? For example, not wearing a belt is covered by a cross-border enforcement directive. If you do not pay a parking ticket in Amsterdam, there is a tax treaty, which must be ratified again. If you are covered by other legislation, you may be arrested, but then say Europe or a court in the Netherlands: you discriminate on the basis of registration. You need about a code of conduct and a manual to understand what it's like at all. We do not care whether it happens to the left or to the right, but as far as we are concerned it has to be settled, and that is what we are asking the Minister. Whether you're Dutch or not, you have to contribute to this road. If you're in violation, whether it's traffic law or toll law, you just have to pay the fine. It can't be that Dutch people pay for that, but other road users, with a different license plate, don't. The VVD therefore wants a guarantee from the Minister that the toll, and thus other types of fines, can actually be collected. Can the Minister comment on this? As has just been announced, Mr Van Helvert, also on behalf of the VVD and the PvdA, will table an amendment to this effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr Madlener, do you still have any doubts as to whether you would like to interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u41	Is Mrs Visser already at the end of her speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u42	No, no. Please continue, Mrs Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u43	Another point we noticed in the bill itself is that the ILT will have an important role to play in enforcement. I was just talking about the inning at the foreign license plates, about automatic collection and any collection agencies. In addition, a role is given to the ILT itself for the standing positions. What does that mean for the deployment of the ILT? How is she going to do that? What does it mean for capacity and ambitions? Can the Minister give more substance to this in her reply? Mr Hoogland already announced the amendment we tabled on the following point. It must be made as easy as possible for the driver and truck driver to drive on toll roads. The bill already contains a number of decisions. We know the history when it comes to decisions of this Chamber for certain systems. For example, the Boordcomputer Taxi; every taxi entrepreneur now has nightmares about it. We want to watch for that. However, the legislative proposal must enter into force now in order to ensure that we can enter into all the procedures. According to the bill, choices have to be made for a particular system and a method of tolling, as well as for the question of what this means for privacy, among other things. However, the market does not stand still. We still have the whole route to go. That is why we want to get these kinds of choices out of the bill. We say, "Dear Minister, see what is possible in the market and make sure that you can take advantage of all these opportunities for innovation and flexibility." That is why we are asking for a number of things not to be laid down in the law, but in an initial plan, including the corresponding AMvBs. For example, the Chamber has insight into privacy, fines and the method of collection before the law actually enters into force. This also offers flexibility. For now, the free-flow system sounds wonderful. It's also a proven technology. So these are good starting points. But who knows what else the market can do. The market doesn't stand still. The Minister himself is busy with self-driving cars. Who knows what we could achieve in 2019, if you see what modern technology is being developed for that? As far as we are concerned, ease of use is paramount, at the lowest possible cost of implementation. Hence the amendment. Some of my colleagues mentioned the regional contribution. I think it is important, at least for a province such as Gelderland, which makes a significant contribution to the A15 extension, to mention that it is also important for this region to implement this. In particular, I have received the call from the region: ensure that this law enters into force so that we can finally achieve the missing link.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u44	Doesn't the spokesperson of the VVD also think that the Dutch motorist is already paying far too much for car mobility? Why should we not charge the Rotterdammers or the inhabitants of Rijnmond with tolls and people in Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u45	I believe that the Dutch motorist is indeed paying a lot of tax. However, if we do not do this, these roads simply do not exist; that is the choice that lies ahead. Then the Blankenburg connection doesn't get there and then the extended A15 doesn't get there. Then those drivers, whether Rotterdammers or Gelderlanders, are simply in a traffic jam. And that's a pretty big traffic jam. In addition, the underlying road network is completely blocked. With that choice in mind, the VVD group chooses for this. "I would rather not," I already mentioned in my contribution; it is really temporary and it is the only two routes for which this toll should apply, as far as we are concerned. But this is the choice that was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u46	This is the choice that was made because the VVD Group has chosen to get as much as 5 billion from the infrastructure fund. You raised EUR 5 billion from that fund, Mrs Visser. And where did that money go? That goes to Greece, to asylum seekers, and I know it all. And now the Rotterdammer can pay a toll. Not the Amsterdammer, no, the Rotterdammer, who lives there, who goes to work, can pay a toll every day. Do you think that's reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr Madlener comes from the Rotterdam region, that is clear, also from his contribution. But we stand before the whole of the Netherlands. I believe that the Amsterdammer also uses the Blankenburg connection or the extended A15. These roads are just important, let us be very clear about that. If I have a choice between no road and no road, I choose that road. However, it is a temporary solution. I would remind you of the historical overview: in 2006, 2009 and 2011, this was also submitted to the Chamber, including the point of the toll connection. In 2011, I believe that Mr Madlener was also in the Chamber and agreed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mrs Visser's contribution shows that the VVD Group has difficulty with tolling. But the VVD Group also has difficulty with the bill of its own minister. In fact, the VVD Group thinks it is a bad law, because it has tabled amendments together with the PvdA that completely undress the bill. So what remains of the bill that is before the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mrs Hachchi is about her own words and her own typologies in them. However, I do not recognize myself in any way. With the amendment Mr Hoogland and I are trying to create more flexibility and freedom of choice, to see what the market can do and what that means. To see what is still possible in the market should appeal to Mrs Hachchi as a fellow-liberal. It is precisely in the mobility industry that we see that things do not stop. Let us give room for that in the law instead of laying down everything. That is what we had difficulty recording. If we fix it now, what flexibility will we have if it turns out that new technologies are working better, with more user-friendliness and lower implementation costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u50	Of course, D66 is also for new techniques and for opening up space for them. But let's face it, this minister's current bill is not a good law. There are a lot of questions left and there is still a lot of criticism. It would be a credit to Mrs Visser if she were very clear about that. In view of the amendments she has tabled with the PvdA Group, it is also quite clear that she is completely undressing the Minister's bill, in my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u51	It's funny, though, that when you put in an amendment that tries to create more room for flexibility, there are these kinds of comments. You need to learn from lessons from the past. I already mentioned the board computer Taxi. I think that is a wonderful example. Ten years ago, the Chamber decided on something which is only now coming into force, and now the Chamber is wondering whether it has done it conveniently. You have to learn from the lessons of the past. The Elias Committee has clearly shown us a number of lessons. Let's learn from that and see what we can do. That's how I see this bill. I started by saying that we have been talking about this for a very long time. We have to move on now. This legal act is necessary to ensure that we can take trace decisions. Once we've taken it, the kick can go to the ground. So I see this as a very important bill. Through an amendment, I call for more space and flexibility to be offered to the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a law that makes it possible to charge tolls on two stretches of highway. Without that toll, these two stretches of highway won't get there anyway. Indeed, there is still a gap of around EUR 600 million in funding. Let me say first of all that I find it ironic that a VVD minister, of all people, is putting forward a bill on tolls. I'm the new spokesperson on this file. Hence the insights I get. In the end, pragmatism and the desire for new asphalt win the VVD of principles, I think. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether this is a change of heart in her party's thinking. D66 is not against tolling in principle. However, with the Minister's bill, we still have some questions about the practical effects. If it is up to the coalition, as it became clear in an interruption, the minister's law will be stripped. I would therefore like to begin by looking at the Minister's reaction to the amendments tabled by the VVD and the Labour Party. I see a lot of shortcomings in the Minister's bill, which the Minister does not know how to solve directly in her written reply. Much still requires further elaboration. They're not small points. How is the inning going to work on license plates where no name, address and place of residence data are known, such as foreign license plates? How will it be maintained in the future? Is there enough capacity? Is the privacy secure enough? Or, as my colleague from the VVD asks in her written questions, there is still much unclear about the exact execution of the toll. I wholeheartedly agree with that. When exactly should we have that clarity? One of the two projects, the ViA15, could be opened in 2019. That's three and a half years from now. How will the Minister involve the Chamber in this further development? Will she promise that she will not take the toll decisions without first presenting them to the House of Representatives? The Minister chooses a system with a free flow. This means that there will be no barriers and large toll areas. Instead, cameras are coming up above the road that record plates. I imagine this is the same as it is now with the route checks. I would like to hear from the Minister once again an explanation of this choice. Is the free flow system now a proven technology? What are the experiences of this in other countries? Are these experiences directly applicable to the Netherlands? A toll can only work in this way if the registration system and the associated payment administration system work flawlessly. Can the Minister guarantee that? Is there any experience with this in other countries? I think this is an important question, because unfortunately experience shows that the combination of government and large ICT projects is not usually a guarantee of success. Mr Visser has already pointed this out. I would also like to hear the Minister's response to this. I'm trying to imagine how the system is going to work. You're gonna drive your car across the A15 or the Blankenburg tunnel. Along the way you will find a few signs that tell you that you are driving on a toll road and that you should not forget to pay €1,18 when you are at home. This can be done via the website www.tolbepay.nl, or something like that. If you don't and forget to pay in a few days, there's a notice on the doormat. This €1.18 is then directly increased by €7 in administrative costs. D66 thinks that's pretty strong. I would therefore like to ask the Minister why a reminder is not sent first, without the additional administrative costs. This is, after all, very much at the expense of the acceptance of tolls. I get the feeling that the Minister doesn't want that, because it's all gonna get really in the papers. This raises the question of what the financial basis for all this is. Again, we are talking about the bill as the Minister sent to the Chamber. Is the Minister not setting up a hugely complex system that will be so expensive that we will lose more euros to maintaining the system than to paying off the asphalt? Of course, a toll system can only work if no one can avoid the toll. That's a tough condition for the system's support. I see problems with foreign drivers. How, for example, are we going to inform German tourists on their way to the beach at Scheveningen that they have to pay a toll? Do they have to think about it when they drive under the sign www.tolbepay.nl or do they have to remind themselves once they arrive at their holiday address to pay €1,18 on that website? I don't see it all happening right away. That is why I ask the Minister to respond. I told you, if you don't pay on time, basically you'll get a warning first. For Dutch registration numbers a link is then made with the Dutch registration number, so that the notice can be sent to a home address. How exactly is this gonna work for those foreign plates? Don't you think they're gonna get out of the dance very easily? Here too, I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The legislative proposal provides for different forms of supervision and enforcement. Enforcement will focus on registration numbers for which no data is available. In practice, these will therefore mainly be foreign registration numbers. It may be huge numbers, because, as I said earlier, I do not see it working directly. Does this mean that there will be hundreds of additional checks? Is that how the Minister sees it? Will the Inspection Environment and Transport get additional capacity for this? After all, it is already not well-off in its resources. Exactly how many people and money are there? Are the costs of this part of the 20% that the Minister is counting on for the tolling system that she has to cover? If that foreign driver is stopped, an administrative fine will immediately follow. This will be increased by €1.18 by as much as €35. The interim step of the notice is not there. Can this be legal or will we have problems with Brussels? The Minister assumes that on both routes, the Blankenburg tunnel and the ViA15, tolling will take about 25 years to close the accounting gap. This is based on a toll of €1,18. I immediately believe that there are good models behind this. What I am still curious about is the precise assumptions that the Minister uses for this purpose. Are scenarios counted and what scenario is then linked to those 25 years? I also assume that the Minister is taking into account a pessimistic scenario, because I do not think she is waiting for tolls until the year 2100. Another point that my group would like to clarify is the way in which privacy-sensitive data is handled. Then the following sentence in the explanatory statement is not reassuring: "(...) cannot yet be given a complete picture of the concrete means of protecting the privacy of the road user." Why can't this be done and when can the Minister give it to us? I also understand that license plate records are kept for two months to allow people to object. Why, however, does this also happen in cases where payments are made directly, for example at a physical payment point or via the Internet? If people actively take the trouble to pay, the chances of them objecting will be virtually nil, you would say. Why is there a two-month retention period in these cases? My group also believes it is important that the registration data should not be used for purposes other than tolling. I would also like to hear a clear statement from the Minister. It must be clear that my group has a lot of mixed feelings. The Minister is presenting us with a law which in itself does nothing more than lay the foundations for the future. It outlines a few outlines, and no more than that, of the way in which it envisages the practical implementation. There are a number of important points where this does not seem to be the case. I have just mentioned privacy, but this also applies to collection, enforcement and the foreign license plates. If I take all that, I honestly can't see it all in front of me either. However, today, fresh from the press, we have seen new amendments from the coalition parties giving some room for manoeuvre. However, I have looked at the Minister's bill as a new spokesman and I look forward to her answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr. Chairman. The CDA has always been in favour of a good connection: of the Blankenburg connection and the ViA15. It is therefore a good thing that progress is being made. We also support the imposition of tolls there. However, in our view, the intended toll system still has too many shortcomings. Modifying the toll decision is a burden on the CDA. A change, such as lowering or ending the toll, which will eventually have to be done, may lead to additional traffic. If you lift the toll, more people might drive over it, which means a new decision has to be taken with environmental measures and any other measures to counter the negative effects of that increase. If it is known that there will be more traffic after the toll ends, it may take longer for the decision to stop the charge to be taken. Can the Minister assure us that this is not going to happen? Will the toll not be charged longer than necessary? And will it not last longer than necessary due to additional measures? The maximum collection costs, up to 20% of the yield, are very high. These costs are in addition to the intended toll revenue of EUR 602 million, allowing road users to pay up to EUR 720 million. We think that 20% is a lot. Does the Minister consider this proportionate? What else can we do about this? Earlier, we asked why a possibility of differentiation by euro emission class was included and how this relates to the premise that the toll only serves as partial infrastructure funding. The answer to that question is still unclear. In short, the Minister replies that this differentiation of Europe must be done, but that we are not going to do it in the Netherlands. We simply ask that it should not be included in the law. The Minister writes that she believes that there are good reasons to refrain from differentiation by euro emission class in the Dutch situation. Making Dutch laws and introducing mandatory parts for Europe, but not doing so, we find a little strange. Doesn't the minister think that's a weird administrative game? Like a number of colleagues before me, I would like to comment on the letter of formal notice for payment. I liked it the way Mrs. Hachchi said it. Imagine, you're going down that road and you're going through a toll tunnel. If you do not pay directly, you will soon receive a €7 notice. The Labour Party, as well as other parties, have also clearly heard about this. Of course, that mistake can be made quickly by people who drive less often, such as day-trips, but also foreign tourists and holidaymakers. They will not first receive an invoice or a payment reminder, but equal, hatseflats, a reminder of €7. The Minister replied that if the payment obligation for the registration holder were to be established first with the invoice, responsibility would be removed from the road user. A substantial part of the invoice is expected to wait. This makes the implementation of the toll system considerably more expensive, which requires a longer charging of the toll. So that wasn't in the 20% yet. This is thought only from the system and the necessary proceeds and not from the willing citizen who happens to drive there once. Wouldn't the Minister like to test this in practice? The Minister's approach is rather rough, so to speak, and not very customer-friendly. Send an invoice or a payment reminder for a period and see what happens, or arrange it in another way. After all, we are talking about 2022 and for that time there may be a lot of other great ways to organise it: different and more customer-friendly than this. Just a few more moments about Gelderland. The VVD made it very clear that the region also shares huge costs, not only by paying the toll but also by paying a regional contribution. That's actually not normal. It is becoming more and more normal in this house that we expect regions of state to contribute their national responsibilities. Sometimes it can't be different if a region wants something fast. I understand that, but it is quite extraordinary that the regions are often asked to contribute to national responsibilities. The agreement of the Deputy States of Gelderland states that they are willing to look together with the Empire for alternatives. The Minister indicated that no consultations had yet been held on this subject. Then the Minister continues. Although it has not even been discussed yet, the Minister has concluded that the States do not wish to do so. Has there been any consultation and what is the result of that? I come to the foreign tourists, I mean foreign drivers. Of course, some of them will also be foreign tourists. We're worried about the payment by these drivers. It is not the first time that the CDA Group has been concerned about the payment by foreign drivers. We have also asked the Minister of Justice about the payment by foreigners of fines for traffic offences. At present no agreements have been concluded for the exchange of vehicle registration data under the toll system. However, a convention on the cross-border exchange of data was concluded with Belgium on 25 April 2013. That treaty has yet to be ratified by Belgium. That's really not enough. If the government doesn't speed up, all foreign cars will be allowed to drive for free. The first problem, therefore, is that the exchange of registration data has not yet been settled interstately. The tolling on these two roads will take place fully automatically, with automatic number plate recognition. We already have some experience with this in the Netherlands. There's a lot of cameras like this hanging over the road. There are also problems with this, for example with processed number plates. I understand that this is being worked on, but that is not yet settled. On behalf of my group, I would specifically like to draw attention to the problem of foreign registration plates. What happens when someone drives, for example, a German or Bulgarian car on the road? Are all foreign license plates recognized? Can the Minister guarantee that these cameras recognise at least the number plates of cars from the European Union and Switzerland? In practice, that will be the most. The third problem arises in the collection of tolls. These amounts are relatively small and therefore not fines. Has the Netherlands already agreed with Germany or any other country to collect the amount of €1.18 via the road traffic service of that country? Are these countries prepared to collect such relatively small amounts? In fact, are these countries also prepared to use coercive means to collect that money? I'm not asking for nothing. If countries do not do so, these two projects will become a shambles. This is not fictitious, because the A15 is located on the German border and there are a lot of cars with a foreign license plate. By the way, many Belgians will also use the Blankenburg tunnel. If the collection goes through an international collection agency, then my question is whether we are going to use that expensive agency to collect €2.00 from residents of, for example, Bulgaria. We regard this as a practical problem. If that is not possible, only the Dutch drivers and others are de facto exempt. The CDA thinks that's undesirable. That is why I am tabling an amendment together with the VVD and the Labour Party. That means, by the way, that the amendment to item No. 12 is withdrawn and after very nice consultation with the groups of the VVD and the Labour Party in the amendment to item No. 15 has been changed. In addition, we are not dealing with Article 7, but with Article 15. In fact, we say that the toll should not start until after the Chamber has said something about it again. That means that the way we are going to do that will be discussed again before it can actually start. I think that is a very nice amendment and I am looking forward to the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u54	The Van Helvert amendment (Doc. 12) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr. Chairman. I can report that I'm not excited about tolling. Let me be absolutely clear about that. But if we don't take a toll, these roads just don't get there. Others have already said that. When I was a member of the Provincial States of Gelderland, we said that money should be made available for it because it is an important road. If we have it and want to convince The Hague, we must do something about it ourselves and put money on the table ourselves. That's what happened. Unlike Mr Madlener's statement, it is not only the Rotterdam region that pays, but also the Gelderlanders. They have already paid, but they will also pay for the use. In that respect, there are some who are in pain. But that's financial pain. At the same time, you also know that you have advantages. That's what we wanted with each other. I also see that advantage, and I do hope that this will soon lead to a positive decision and eventually to a route decision, so that that path can be reached in 2019. That is indeed thanks to the province of Gelderland. I would like to emphasize this point. When you look at it, you see things that might be better. It's true that foreigners are going to pay too. It would be a good thing that everyone who makes use of it should actually pay, and in that sense I fully agree with what Mr Van Helvert said about it. We would also like the costs of collection to remain as low and as reasonable as possible. 20% collection costs are pretty high. In any case, you also want people to be treated fairly if they do not pay it immediately because they have forgotten it, for example. I understand that Mr Hoogland wants something similar, but less long. We'll hear what the Minister thinks about it. Perhaps it is possible to send a reminder, so that you do not get an almost sixfold increase in your contribution with that €7 extra. Technology is in development, and so is it here. Unlike Mrs. Hachchi, I don't see it as undressing the law. On the contrary, it would make the law more flexible if we could make it possible to change systems fairly quickly if other systems could lead to faster, cheaper and better collection of that toll. What I regret, however, is that the Minister is rather cautious in answering questions about the possibility of refusing to do so. If the province of Gelderland finds a few more million in a generous mood, it is a substantial sum.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I read that the Minister is very careful about that. I am not saying that the money is coming, but I agree with Mr Van Helvert that we should be able to get rid of this toll quite quickly and not do all kinds of complicated business for that. We really shouldn't do that any longer than we have to. Mrs Visser spoke of a temporary arrangement. A lot of things are temporary, but 25 years is pretty long. In my opinion, we should all try to regulate this properly but as flexibly as possible. In short, I welcome the fact that the roads are coming. I'm not happy with the toll, but sometimes you have to accept things to get something done. That's what we're gonna do here as far as I'm concerned. I am curious about the Minister's answers, because it may be even better than what is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr. Chairman. The SGP has looked with mixed feelings at the present ad hoc levy proposal. We understand that the Infrastructure Fund is not sufficient at the moment and the Minister is seeking alternative forms of funding. Still, it raises some questions. These are two-fold. Firstly, it is a question of principle whether you want to take the step towards tolling as a form of revenue acquisition, or not. Secondly, there are questions about the practical feasibility of the toll system. Let me first address the question of principle: whether or not tolling? The SGP believes, moreover, with the Minister, that infrastructure should be financed primarily by the public. Good connections are a matter of general interest. The documents say that the user pays, but at the same time we have to realise that motorists already pay many billions more tax than is invested through the Infrastructure Fund. In addition, for the SGP there may be a form of arbitrariness: one road connection is financed without toll and the other, comparable road connection is financed by toll. The SGP therefore opts for a very cautious attitude towards tolls in general. Following on from the previous point, I would like to mention the following. The legislative proposal concerns only two projects, but it sets a precedent, whether you like it or not. The SGP is therefore still looking at the Minister's long-term vision of the use of tolling as a means of financing infrastructure. That leads to two specific questions. What makes the two infrastructure projects as such, not from a financial point of view but in themselves, so different from the normal Dutch infrastructure that tolling is justified? And is it true that these two projects remain, or does the Minister leave an option open to use tolls more often to resolve deficits in an infrastructure investment? Perhaps I should raise the question a little more: does not acceptance of this method of financing inevitably create a precedent in such a way that, in future, other projects can also opt for tolling as a means of covering infrastructure investments? Then I come to the other facet: the practical implementation of the toll system. The Minister opts for a free flow system. I get the benefits, but there's a lot of hooks and eyes on it. Colleagues have already explained this in detail. I won't repeat all of that. For the two connections a new system must be rigged, with associated costs. In the scenario of high economic growth, collection costs are around 16% of total revenue, but in the scenario of low economic growth, collection costs are even 34%. With the extra costs in the start-up phase, we are probably higher than the 20% that is the starting point. How hard is the cabinet line for the Minister that the collection costs should not exceed 20% of the total revenue? We are also dealing with perhaps 30 million passages a year. Many drivers will make a mistake in the first and second instance or will get a wrong registration. This also results in all sorts of complications. The Council of State is right to point out the legal shortcomings of the fact that the licence holder can be made a criminal offence for the driver's payment obligation and the fact that no address information is available in foreign cars. The latter is certainly relevant for the ViA15 as a connection with Germany. There's quite a bottleneck here. I agree with those Members who have raised questions on this subject with the aim of identifying the possibilities for the Minister to resolve these problems before introducing the toll system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. The SGP said it nicely: it stood here with a mixed feeling in response to this law. That is actually a better expression than the one I would have liked to start with, namely that the introduction of tolls, even if it is a temporary toll, is not my greatest hobby. I do not need to repeat history, because many Members of Parliament have already done so. It's not a new plan. It's a proposal from the past that's there. It is a proposal that will at least lead to the construction of road infrastructure, because it has a budget available. So it is actually a choice between two evils: either the introduction of a toll system or the non-building of infrastructure. Then it doesn't even have to be these two roads, because you could also say that it's just a hole in the infrastructure budget. So you could come to a different prioritization, but somewhere it's just gonna cramp. That is the issue we are dealing with. That's just for the whole picture. It is therefore not the case that a huge amount of money has disappeared from the infrastructure budget during this cabinet period. This way it is always framed by the PVV. I keep pointing that out. I shall do so once again before the budget debate in the near future. In the five years preceding the Rutte cabinet, we spent some 6.6 billion on infrastructure, and in the five years of the Rutte cabinet, that is 7.9 billion. So that is many times more than in the past. Didn't anything go out? Yeah, I always say that, but it's gotten more and more. I would first like to answer the questions of the PVV and then those of all the other parties in chronological order, to end with the four amendments that have been tabled. The PVV asked me how the payment by foreigners will be made. The starting point for me is that foreign road users, like the Dutch road users, have to pay a toll. This is important for the acceptance of tolls and for the level playing field in the transport sector. It is important at all in the debates we are having internationally on tolls in other countries that we achieve that level playing field. It is precisely for this reason that it is important that the toll rate can easily be paid by foreigners in a recognizable way for them. The PVV is not the only one who asked for it. In fact, almost all Members of Parliament have explicitly asked for this. That is why I am currently investigating whether it is possible for foreigners who already have a toll account in another European country, for example, to think of the French toll boxes with that existing account can also pay the Dutch toll. It is also important that foreigners can be fined if they do not pay. I am therefore also committed to exchanging international road toll registration data. This possibility also exists for fines and for certain traffic offences. Finally, as a safety net, I made provision in the legislative proposal for foreign motor vehicles to be maintained and for an administrative fine to be imposed on them on the spot. We're still working this out, so we don't know all the ins and outs of these systems yet. You must also apply existing rules, as Mrs Visser said. Part of it can and part of it can't. So we also need to develop new systems. We'll come back to that in time to show you what this is going to look like. However, the starting point is that the foreigner, like the Dutchman, simply pays for the use of these roads. Foreign drivers will therefore simply be charged with collection costs. Every driver whose address details are known will receive a payment reminder if he does not pay. The same applies to foreigners. If no information is available, a fine of €35 may also be imposed on the standing position. The PVV and other parties have asked whether the toll can be stopped when additional budget is available or additional contributions are made. The toll can be stopped with a separate toll decision that can be taken at any time. If we are to stop alone, so without a budget, we must, of course, look at the budgetary consequences of this. If, in a subsequent cabinet, whether it is the Rutte III cabinet or the Madlenian cabinet, I think that Mr Madlener might have already considered that this could happen, when he asked that question, a lot of extra budget suddenly becomes available, that decision can simply be taken. In any case, it is technically possible. It's a political decision. We can deal with this in the Chamber and then put it into effect. Of course, this can also have an effect on traffic. Now we are dealing with price elasticity because of the price system. People choose to ride a paid toll road or not. They can also opt for an alternative route that is free of charge. This can have an impact on the use of the road and you have to have a discussion about it with each other. If the question is simply whether it is possible, the answer is: yes, this is possible. Can you guarantee that there will be no VAT on the toll? That too was a question from the PVV. The collection of the toll is reserved for the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment in order to carry out the task of public law. The infrastructure in question is carried out on the basis of the statutory task of the public authorities. This is contrary to the Westerschelde tunnel on which tolls have been levied in the past. There, a private operator took over the operation. However, there is no distortion of competition with private operators. This leads to the conclusion that the road user is not liable to VAT on the tolls to be collected. What are the collection costs of the acceptance giros? Almost all parties have asked for this. As I mentioned earlier in my replies, there is no definitive certainty as to the cost of implementation, as implementation will be prepared in the years to come and tendered for parts. This legislative proposal opens up the possibility of levying tolls, but of course we prefer that the market should propose as smart a system as possible to keep collection costs as low as possible. One of the starting points for implementing the bill is that the toll collection costs should not exceed 20% of total toll revenues. We see that similar projects abroad also work in a similar way and that this is feasible. This means, however, that the system must be fully operational and the road user must be familiar with the toll. I shall come back to this later when I answer the questions of the SGP about 20% versus 34%. It is, of course, a question of total tolls. It is sometimes different during the start-up period, but when everything is ultimately operational, the maximum is simply very important. The last question from the PVV was whether as a minister I would be willing to withdraw the bill, but simply build the roads. That was actually the PVV's request. When Mr Madlener was not yet in the Chamber, I started by saying: I am not in favour of tolls, but the tolls are really needed to pay for the infrastructure. I was able to take the toll off one road by making money from the infrastructure fund available. That way I paid off the toll of the A13/A16, so to speak. That road is not suitable for that, because there are too many other roads around it that are not paid for. This would therefore not work well for price elasticity. However, I have no alternative for these two roads, unless there is an extra budget. That's not the case, and that's why I have to choose between two evils. I therefore opt for the construction of the road with this temporary toll. That is my answer to Mr Madlener's last question. Now I come to the questions of the SP. Mr Bashir asked whether VAT, bpm, excise duties and all kinds of other charges were not enough. In fact, the answer to this question coincides with the answers I have given before. We do not want to take a toll because we think there is another means of charging it, but because the construction of these roads has already been decided upon, also by the Chamber at several times. At that time there was no money available for this and so, in addition to the existing systems, tolls would be chosen. In fact, I believe that the tolling system for the Blankenburg tunnel was established in 2009 on the initiative of the Chamber. I do not think that increasing the overall tax burden to build these two roads is desirable at the moment. The SP also asked for the effect on toll revenues for the Blankenburg tunnel if only tolls would be levied on cargo. If you only charge tolls on freight traffic, it will take much longer for the scheduled budgets to be met, because car traffic will no longer be charged a toll. There will also be more space in the Benelux tunnel because more car traffic will choose the Blankenburg connection. As a result, part of the freight traffic will start using the Benelux tunnel instead of the Blankenburg link. As a result, the total toll revenues will be more than halve, is our estimate. That would be an undesirable development. There has been a lot of discussion in the Chamber about the acceptance of tolls. The SP explicitly asks about that. Actually, several MPs have already answered that question for me. The Chamber, as a representative of society, of the various regions, has confirmed in various MIRT submissions that it wants to build certain roads in the knowledge that there is a toll on them. She has always supported this. In these two projects, it has always been clear that these tolls are needed to pay the infrastructure. That has also gone through the Councils, the States and the Chamber. Then I come to the issue of the €7 reminder fee. This point has been brought in by the SP, but it has also been addressed by all other parties. The question is whether I think it is reasonable for those costs to be charged. First of all, I will try to promote the use of an account as much as possible before the collection. The best thing is of course if you can just use those roads without having to think about it at all. The toll is simply written off and you pay the fee in time. If the toll is not paid in time, the registration holder will receive a payment reminder. This reminder of payment will prevent a penalty being imposed immediately. That was in the original proposal before we sent it to the Council of State. This is actually a step back, because before that we had thought that a fine would follow immediately when not paid. We've made an intermediate variant, and that's the payment reminder. I assumed a standard fee of €7. I didn't think of an increase of 59%. It's also not related to the O.V. It is a standard fee of €7 from the General Administrative Law Act which is also used for other notices in other policy areas. This should cover all costs associated with the reminder and further payment handling. So it's about shipping, providing information, a photo of the registered license plate, handling the payment or handling any complaints. So the aim is to keep it as low as possible, because people know you have to have a ticket or an account for it. Should it occur, I did not come up with an amount for it myself. The amount is simply included in the General Administrative Law Act as standard fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u58	The Minister has pointed out a number of times that this toll plan has been supported by the Chamber. I can fully follow that, but we are also talking about the support base in society when this is finally rolled out, the motorist himself. The care is Chamberwide. It costs €1.18 and if you forget to pay, for whatever reason, you pay the fine of €7 in one go. Does the Minister recognise that the support of motorists following the roll-out of the system is also important? For what reason cannot a first free warning be sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mrs Hachchi is right to ask these questions. I think this point is very important. You can see, for example, that there is a lot of support for the introduction of the speed of 130 km/h, but not for everyone. If there is then uncertainty about signage, which leads to fines, then the concept itself is sometimes called into question. That is also the case with tolls. If a new connection is established, people can in principle imagine that there is also a toll. For example, freight traffic from the port of Rotterdam has been around for a long time. But if there is a lot of uncertainty about the system, it can undermine the basis for the concept. So I think that is very important. We need to be as careful as possible in the implementation and in the question of what the collection will look like and what the communication will be about it. We need to look at how other countries do it, because we are one of the last countries to do it. France has several toll systems. The toll squares are known; there you can hardly miss that you have to pay a toll because you drive such a trap. But France also has several péages that work with an account. We must look at good experiences of others and try not to invent too much ourselves in that area. In the framework of government and ICT it is: better stolen than badly reinvented. We also have to take a great deal of account of the importance of the user.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u60	I can fully follow the Minister's answer, even if she says that it all becomes clearer in its implementation. But I am sticking to the very specific point. The support of the driver is also in the fact that it is very strange that you immediately get a fine at the notice if you forget to pay €1,18 for any reason. That principle can seriously undermine the basis of support. We'll get that fine right away. The warning, therefore, is not free of charge. I do not understand very well why the Minister insists on this specific point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u61	Apologies, I had indeed not answered the second question. If you don't have a ticket on the train, you'll get a fine right away. This is even higher than the reminder fee you get when you use the road without paying, because on the train you have to pay €35. The concept you have to pay for traveling for free and getting caught is not so crazy in itself. Then the question is: is it fair? When you get on the train, you know you need a ticket, but do you know that when you're on the road? Hence my whole argument that we need to make this clear with as simple a system as possible. The second point is whether you will not be able to send a warning. One of the amendments is about this. Of course, this is not free of charge. The costs that are incurred, as expressed in the standard fee of €7 from the General Administrative Law Act, will be temporarily incurred by the Empire. That is possible, but then it also becomes more expensive and takes you longer to charge the toll. So the choice we make is: good information at the front, as simple a collection system as possible and by the time it comes people make it clear that it is there. Then, when you pay, there is nothing to worry about. If you do not pay, you will receive a €7 notice. So one does not get a fine immediately, but rather the cost of warning. If it doesn't pay yet, there's gonna be a fine. I think this is a reasonable kick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u62	In the context of reasonableness, following what Mrs Hachchi said and different from what Mr Hoogland and I have set out in amendments, I could also imagine that you will not get a free reminder for a year or an indefinite period of time, but that you will receive a free reminder at your address once on your license plate. People can then be reminded that they can do something via an account. Then you do two things: you provide a piece of information and perhaps also a piece of support. Would the Minister care to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u63	I'll come back to that later when I start asking questions about this, but one of the bottlenecks is that, at the time there's no offense, you can't just request people's data. If someone has an account, you can depersonalize it, but if you send a free reminder, you need to request private information from people who were on the road at some point without committing an offence at that time. That's the complexity of it. I'm gonna go into it a little more deeply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u64	I don't quite understand. So you could get a reminder for €7 but not a free reminder. I can't hit that bridge right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u65	I might have misunderstood you, because I can. You can simply decide not to lift it for the first six months or the first year. For example, you can make that €7 €0. My argument of a moment ago was that it would mean that you'd put a hole in the budget you've estimated. That's a choice you can make. I thought you meant that everyone gets a kind of notice in advance, in the sense of: pay attention, you can create an account. So you have to use private data from someone who might have wanted to pay and didn't want to hear at all that he was on that road at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u66	The thought is next. Someone drives through and doesn't pay on time. In the system as it is now, he should pay €7. In the system I imagine, you could send such a person a reminder, in which that person is reminded of the possibility to create an account, which is then a one-off action. So at an address and with a license plate you can get such a free reminder and next time you just pay €7.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u67	In my view, that is exactly the question Mrs Hachchi asked and I have answered that it is possible. It's a choice you can make. So you decide as a Empire that you want to cover those costs for six months or for the first year. I think it's awkward to do it once per person. It is more a period of work than a period of work. So that's what you can do. I do think that we have opted for a good build-up by means of that trap rocket, if you compare it to public transport where you immediately get a big fine on your pants. However, we shall see how the debate is going to proceed. My warning is that it will take longer and become more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u68	I do not think the comparison with the public is entirely right, because we just have the gates on the stations to make sure that you don't encounter that problem in the train anymore. I can imagine, however, that such a letter of formal notice is not free of charge. However, where we are talking about 2022, I cannot imagine that we will not send a letter to the people at home in any other way than to draw people's attention to the fact that they have an open debt for driving through a tunnel. If the amendment to item No. 15 that I have tabled with Mrs Visser and Mr Hoogland, we will be discussing tolling again in 2022. Then a new proposal that fits better with that time could be part of that. What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u69	We didn't invent that €7 on the basis of current costs. It is a standard fee that is included in the General Administrative Law Act. It's kind of a general fee. Indeed, you cannot know how in the future the exchange of information, the seizure of fines and so on will work. So if there is a method of doing it cheaper and better, then we should just welcome it. However, I do not have a basis for applying this law to a different rate than that applicable to all other policy areas. That's why I'm taking that €7 as a starting point. If we are able to reduce this kind of cost at all in the future, we should do so on the basis of the General Law on Administrative Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u70	It is not so much about the €7 as such, because I understand that very well. The point is that the €7 is immediately imposed without any interference. And you might be able to solve that in a different way with less costs, because we are still talking about the way to charge tolls in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u71	I will come back to this in the further reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u72	The Minister has not yet completed the collection from Bulgaria and Romania. That is something that is still completely open and which has not yet been settled, but it has already thought very carefully about and taken into account the collection costs of €7, in the sense that they have been included in the calculations. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u73	I've just gone into the collection methodology for foreigners in detail. I have indicated the ways in which we are going to implement this and the possibilities we are going to use for it. I'll make sure foreigners just pay. That's what I calculated in my receipts, so if they don't pay, I have a problem, and that's a good incentive for myself to make sure they pay. Of course, it's also about the Dutch. We have made an assessment of the use and price elasticity. That is what we have based our budgets on. If people do not pay, if people do not deliver what they should deliver for the use of the road and we should send a warning, which is an administrative act that is behind a lot of administrative acts, then there is simply a cost. That €7 is not part of calculating the budget you need to make the toll pay enough, but a consequence of an extra operation that you have to do because someone just hasn't closed an account and hasn't paid. He gets a letter of formal notice, and that letter of formal notice is subject to a budget. That happens a lot in everyday life. You can use all kinds of services in your daily life. If you have a direct debit, it doesn't cost you anything. If you get an account afterwards, you often have to pay for it. It's not that crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u74	All the collection and early warning costs are also generally well earned. It's a nice extra source of income, just like the fines on the A2. They make a lot of money out of that. I wonder what role that plays in the calculations. I would like to have access to the calculations used by the Minister. Does the Commission intend to hand over to the Chamber the comprehensive calculations, including reminder fees and collection from Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u75	When we discussed price elasticity and toll rates, the €1.18 and the 7 euro so much for freight traffic, we gave an insight into this. We have shown how this has been achieved, how many cars would use it, what price elasticity was in place and what budget should be attached to it. We have given that insight. If Mr Madlener wants to see that again, I refer him to that. We have not calculated that €7 as the exact amount we come up against as a result of an administrative act. No, we have taken over the standard fee administrative act of the General Administrative Law Act, which applies in all sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u76	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr Houwers spoke about payment memories. If you create an account, there are no reminder fees. We could still investigate whether it is possible to cancel this €7 if an account is created afterwards. This could also be an option to promote the creation of an account. Of course, this has a financial consequence, but it can be an interesting intermediate solution. Members note that I am thinking along with them during the debate. On behalf of the SP has been asked whether we should raise 602 million to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u79	Maybe we should let the Minister finish her sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u80	I have a question on the previous subject; I was a little late. I wanted to give the Minister the opportunity to give the full answer. I've heard it now. At the point of the €7, the answer offers some comfort: the Minister is willing to see if he can do it in some other way. Would the Minister like to send a letter on how that might look? That does not have to be done in the short term, but I think it would be nice to have an insight into that. The second part concerns this €35. I didn't make that comparison with public transport. It's in the secretary's papers. By analogy with the fine, €35 will be charged after the first notice. Does the minister know that part? Does this increase to €70, which is intended to be implemented in the Federal Republic of Germany, also apply in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u81	I made the comparison between the costs of the notice and the fine, because we have indeed based the fine on the d.o.b. and the costs of the reminder are from the General Administrative Law Act. Whether or not we are going to double in the future often has to do with a political discussion. The political discussion in the government has been that there are too many people taking advantage of it. Sometimes you have to have a little more deterrent effect. In fact, I expect this to be much less the case with a toll road. I think that we will soon be choosing an easy system, so that we no longer have to consider whether or not it has been written off. I can't even see how things are going in the future. Nowadays we don't have to throw any more money in the parking meter and you can pay on your phone. So, of course, things in our lives are getting easier and easier. It's often a matter of having set something up or not. So I do not intend to relate that to it at all times. Then let me make that political statement. The SP asked if to raise 602 million, we would have to pay back 118 million. That was the 20%. Of course, we would prefer to have as low collection costs as possible. So the better the system gets, the less cost we have. I'm trying to control the most efficient toll system possible. But this is what we also see internationally. Let us hope that we can think of even smarter things to keep those costs relatively low. We have already answered the SP's question on the taxation of foreigners. The €7 has also been discussed here several times. I have another question from the SP: how much money is involved in the execution of foreign registration numbers? I said before that it is very important for us that the foreigner, like the Dutch, should pay. That is a matter of principle. You need to organize that as well as possible. I don't know exactly how we're going to do that yet, and that doesn't mean there's any certainty about the cost of this. That's still to be tendered. The moment you decide on tolling, you can go to the market. Then you can check with parties if they have good ideas and see what form they want to do it in. A second point is, of course, that we are working on the bilateral treaties and that we are looking at other countries to see how they are doing if there is no directive underneath. For enforcement and supervision, the principle is that it is carried out cost-effectively from the proceeds of enforcement and supervision. I will come back to the questions that have been asked about ILT, but they will be covered. Then I come to the questions of the PvdA. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Hoogland, because he has just become a father. However, at this late hour he makes a whole speech about the toll. I am glad to be able to congratulate him, for the whole of the Netherlands. Mr Hoogland is asking for a system that is easily accessible. I think that is very important myself. I'd rather not have complicated lockers. I don't want any barriers. That is why we have also opted for free flow, where there is an automatic payment system. Because I think that's a lot more customer-friendly. It's not even so much about the space you need to set up toll systems. I just don't think it's like this time of year anymore, with all the technologies we have now. I'd like to make it easy to reach. I would also like to make automatic payment possible. I want to make individual payment possible. The payment methods are being worked out. Of course, it also looks at facilitating existing accounts. Mr Hoogland also asked about the relationship with the State and the amount of the fine. I just answered that. Mr Hoogland had a little debate with D66 on the difference between the implementation plan and the AMvB. I shall, of course, return to that in the answers to the amendments. But the new amendment actually deals with two things. First of all, the registration holder at AMvB is recorded instead of by law, so that you can also apply new and other variants in the future. Secondly, the implementation plan is submitted to the Court, a plan which is normally not dealt with in the Chamber because it deals with fairly detailed matters. On the other hand, I can well imagine that the way in which such a toll system works can increase and reduce the support for the system and that there should therefore be a debate in the Chamber. In addition, we are not yet able to specify exactly how we will complete it. I like to put it down in the Chamber and as a result the Chamber will have a say in the implementation of the toll system in various areas in the future. The goal is the same for both and both the AMvB and the implementation plan return to the Chamber. We have actually just put it together in one amendment, because it is both an answer to the question "can we, as a Chamber, find something of it again?'. The VVD spokesperson has asked whether it is possible to stop earlier and how flexible the system is. I have just replied: it can be withdrawn at any time. That is to say, whether at the time that the net revenue is equal to the toll estimate, it is possible to do so if it is faster than it would be or at the time that a financial coverage is found for it. The toll decision is then used for this purpose. In the revocation decision you then describe the effects on road safety, the environment, the environment and so on. It's just a political decision being discussed in the Chamber. In addition, when amending or repealing the toll decision, anyone can leave a message before the decision is taken. That's the way it's gonna be with the law. Before you take the final revocation decision, the interested parties who have responded to the draft toll decision may appeal to the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State. So basically, it's like a normal procedure. How am I going to ensure that there are effective incentives to reduce the cost of warning? That's a question from the VVD. I told you, the amount of notice fees is standard. It must cover all costs related to handling. These are: the letters, the info, the phone, the inning and so on. That standard is used in all payment memories of the Empire. Mr Hoogland or Mr Van Helvert asked about the possibility that new techniques could improve it in the future. Wouldn't I want to get rid of that amount? I think we should always embrace these developments, but we should then regulate this in the General Administrative Law Act for all sectors. Can I guarantee that drivers are actually properly informed? It is clear that communication and the proper handling of questions and complaints are important for the success of the toll. Communication and customer service will therefore become an integral part of the preparation of the implementation of this bill. By means of general information, we are going to make public the general public with tolls on those two new links. For the purposes of informing the road user, signage on the toll road, route planners and navigation systems may also be envisaged. I think that certainly the latter will play an increasingly important role. The road user can thus be given the opportunity to opt for the toll road or to turn off earlier to a road where no toll is levied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u82	The costs of the formal notice have already been discussed, but I would like to come back to that. In her bill, the Minister chooses the basis of the Awb. Only the toll decision establishes a link with the Infrastructure Fund and thereby departs from all other bases based on the Awb. The money falls into the Infrastructure Fund and that is an incentive to realize it as soon as possible. However, for me it is also an incentive to bring down that €7. If you hold onto the foundation of the Awb, there is no incentive to spend it as efficiently as possible and to carry it out as efficiently as possible. Is there not another incentive to reduce implementation costs, including reminder costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u83	It's a fictitious amount. As a result, it is difficult to assess the other possibilities of organising it as well as possible. I just mentioned some alternatives, for example, deciding not to lift for a while or to pay back after an account has been created. It is also always possible to check whether there are possibilities to apply a different fee than the standard fee. This means that you work outside the General Administrative Law and see if there are any possibilities to reduce the amount. For all other policy areas, the question then arises: why is it a single standard and is it an exception? We have opted for equality in all systems. It's still a difficult discussion. It is also not to say that it will always be €7 or €6 or €8 or €10 or €4. Moreover, the incentive lies not so much with us to make the process more efficient, but with the motorist to ensure that he gets an account, so that he does not receive any reminders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u84	Finally, Mrs Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u85	I realize that this is partly a theoretical discussion because we don't know how it works. However, there is a difference from the other examples mentioned. This is because the proceeds end up in the general state treasury, whereas they end up in the Infrastructure Fund. So I understand the principle that the Minister has in her proposal, but I would urge him to look at other practical solutions. With the amendment that has been tabled, we want to give room for this. In addition, I would like to emphasise this: if people knowingly do not pay, this is not an ID to get out of it. I am concerned about looking at other solutions, precisely because the link with the Infrastructure Fund has been established. As far as I am concerned, this could provide opportunities for setting it up in a different way from the AWB base. Mr Hoogland asked for a letter. Perhaps the Minister could comment on the options in a letter earlier than in the initial plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u86	I actually hear the same question from various quarters of the Chamber. I say again that the incentive must be especially for the driver: it is annoying that you are getting a notice, and so you are going to use an account. It is not so much an incentive for the Ministry of Infrastructure with its Infrastructure Fund to be better or worse. After all, it is just relative costs that are incurred. If you lift that, they'll probably be passed on to the executor as well. It is therefore likely to be of little benefit, as no further profit should be made on the amounts requested. Mr Hoogland has asked for this, and there is an amendment. Mr Houwers and other MPs have also asked for it in other variants. In any case, therefore, we will have to enter into a further debate with the Chamber on what we are going to do with the costs of formal notice. Either I come back to this in second term, or I come back in a letter to the possibilities and impossibilities in this. I'll keep saying, all the amounts that bring you down will be paid somewhere. Free doesn't exist in this field. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has further requested DBFM (Design, Build, Finance and Maintain) and the incentives contained therein. The construction of the roads is via DBFM, but the toll system is not. The incentives to keep the toll as short as possible are achieved by tariff setting, by a user-friendly system and by seeking to minimise costs. The further development of the system will consider how to further shape these incentives. Eventually, an executor has no interest in letting it last forever. When he raises his price, he sees that fewer people are going to use it, and then it takes longer. If his price is too low, it'll take too long. He must therefore also look for a good system with a good incentive to have the right price elasticity. The VVD has asked about the collection and enforcement, in particular with regard to the many foreign vehicles. What guarantee can I give? I've already said something about it. I am committed to exchanging international road toll registration data, as is the case in the case of traffic offences. The technical infrastructure for the exchange of registrations between European Member States and NAW data is already in place, but the legal basis is lacking. So I am also going to work on this at European level, but I do not know how quickly that will happen. The cross-border enforcement directive and tax treaties do not apply to tolls, as the spokesperson of the VVD herself said. Together with Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Ireland, the UK and Switzerland, I will soon be bringing this issue to the attention of the European Commission. In doing so, I will say that a European basis for exchange is necessary. They're long stretches. In the meantime, we can see if we can deploy internationally operating collection offices. Switzerland, Norway, Ireland and the UK are already using them. They get collection rates between 65 and 90. As a safety net, we have arranged in the legislative proposal for foreign motor vehicles to be maintained and for an administrative fine to be imposed on the spot. So there are several instruments and the net is not yet 100% closed, but in the best example I have seen, it's already at 90% and it's still going up. I'd like to take a look at something like that to sort it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u87	I hear the Minister say that she will work in Europe to find a common basis. We all know the processes in Europe: first the common basis, then the implementation. The CBE directive, which the Minister himself mentioned, had been agreed a long time ago, but before all the countries that had implemented it, we were a few years ahead. I also hear the Minister say that she still has the trail of international treaties. When I hear these two comments, I think it may take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u88	No, I was talking about the international collection agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u89	Yeah, but they're gonna need a base to collect. For example, parking tickets in Amsterdam. Amsterdam has not put the wheel clamp back in for nothing. There are debt collection agencies that can do all kinds of things, but the legal basis is lacking because the treaty with Belgium has not been ratified. That's exactly the problem. I understand we can use debt collection agencies, but as long as we don't have that base, we have a problem on this file. This applies both to a European basis and to the conclusion of individual treaties. I'm curious to see how the Minister is judging this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u90	Indeed, the European pathway is taking a long time, as I said just now. You bring it in, but it's gonna take a while to get an agreement on it, as far as it's possible. Internationally operating collection agencies already operate in Norway, Ireland, Sweden and the UK and achieve successful collection rates. There must be a legal basis. For me, it is a matter of looking at how they do it as soon as possible and how we can copy and use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u91	Finally. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u92	I think this is an important point for the whole Chamber, Mr President. I would like to point out that all those lorries with a foreign registration plate enter an environmental zone that is unnecessary. The collection agencies say that they cannot collect the fines because the foundations are missing. Amsterdam actually says that it does not want to impose wheel clamps, but has to do so because the basis is missing. The collection agencies want it, because they can make money, as Mr Madlener said. But everyone says the foundations are missing. I hear the Minister sketching an image that I'm fine with, but the basis isn't there. I think that we are looking in all our contributions for what that basis will be and for when we have actually arranged it. I was talking about the letter of formal notice. Perhaps this point can also be given more substance by means of a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'll be sure to. I do not know how the individual countries have legally covered it, but we are undoubtedly aware of that. I can say a few things about it in second term or by letter. It is essential, of course, that we believe that fines should be paid both from the foreigner and from the Dutch. The European Commission is firmly committed to this. That is what you see in her rejection of the German toll system, in which she emphasized that it is impossible for the German to charge or compensate for the toll, while other users have to pay the toll. The other way around, we feel the same way. We have to live up to it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u94	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u95	Mr. Chairman. I come to D66's questions. Is there a change of heart within my party? I hope Mrs Hachchi understands that this is not the case. It's a legacy, so to speak, and I've tried to narrow it a little bit by taking the toll off the A13/A16. If the Chamber can make me happy with extra money, I love to take the toll off the other two roads as well. However, we must now take a toll to organise the opening of Rotterdam and the port, via the Blankenburg tunnel but also through the A15. We are talking about the toll system now, but we do not always think that all these trucks cross the A15, then end up at Bemmel in the meadow, and then try to reach the German border through the cities of Arnhem and Nijmegen to transport our goods. Of course, that's a miserable system. So I hope that we can resolve that as soon as possible. The question is when to clarify the implementation of the toll system. The toll system should be implemented next year. The construction system should start in early 2017 in order to be ready in time for the opening of the road. The opening of the ViA15 is planned between 2019 and 2021, and that of the Blankenburg tunnel between 2022 and 2024. Let me just mention the bandwidths. In this respect, it is important to develop the toll system next year. We shall come back to that in the Chamber, at least if the amendments that are before us are tabled. If not, I'd like to give you my word. Asked if I can support the choice of a free-flow system. Toll squares with barriers and free flow systems are the two main systems for tollinning. Both systems have advantages and disadvantages. At toll squares, road users can pay in an accessible way with cash or a payment card. However, at a toll barrier there are weave movements, reduction in speed and traffic congestion. That leads to a loss of travel time. The advantage for the road user is that this does not occur with free flow systems. At the same time, there may again be the disadvantage that not everyone knows where the system is. In any case, we have chosen not to use toll squares, because of the space fittings, weaving problems and congestion problems. We have chosen free flow based on ease of use, flow and road safety. Asked if I can guarantee that there will be a flawless payment system. I will strive for as little administrative burden and implementation burden as possible, and the use of proven technology. I am very much in favour of this kind of system. We have invented enough systems that were really specific to our situation and where you can puzzle about it for years to come whether the course is right or not. In this case, I would like to rely on proven technology, on existing systems available from different chain partners, and on ready-made solutions and experiences from once again Ireland, Sweden and the UK that demonstrate that such a free flow toll system can be implemented properly. The question has also been raised as to whether the system and payments have already proved themselves abroad. Actually, I was just saying something about that. The M50 barrier-free toll road at Dublin in Ireland was opened in 2008. The Golden Ears Bridge at Vancouver in Canada was opened in 2009. The Port Mann Bridge at Vancouver was opened in 2012, the M75 Dartford Crossing free-flow toll at London in 2014 in the UK and the bridge toll at Motala and Sundsvall in Sweden were opened in 2015. So there is plenty to see for those who still have doubts about a holiday destination and think: I immediately make a work visit. I think we've already talked about the memory without a budget. This also applies to the financial underpinning of the system. The 20% was involved. I have said that I will refer to the information that we have already sent in the past. We've been asked how we're going to inform foreigners about the toll. When passing the road, everyone is informed about how the toll can be paid. In addition, road users will also be referred to the toll online in various languages. Finally, we are looking at whether foreigners with a toll account in another European country could simply pay in the Netherlands. I have also provided information on the notice for foreigners and the international registration exchange. With regard to the question of whether the maintenance of payment by foreigners means additional controls and what the costs are: effective supervision is being used with a sufficiently deterrent chance. Monitoring does not require continuous monitoring of the connection. On the basis of the bill, ILT can also stop vehicles with an outstanding toll road debt elsewhere in the Netherlands simply to enforce a fine. The ILT currently explores different supervisory arrangements for their effectiveness. It is therefore also looking at the use of the national network of weighing points, where all kinds of other controls are carried out, and the use of tolling of data collected with the ANPR system, and will take this into account in the development of monitoring. If it turns out that effective enforcement requires more toll inspectors, I will do so. This is paid out of the costs that are charged for it. I have four more questions from D66. I'll answer that later. Then Mrs. Hachchi can ask everything at once. Can you legally collect from the foreign license plates right away? Yes, that can be done if the address details are known and otherwise you can impose a fine on the spot. What are the assumptions of the traffic calculations? The toll rate affects the amount of traffic used by the infrastructure. In the route decisions I set the rates at €1,18 for persons and €7,11 for freight in 2013. A prognosis has been made of the effect on the use of roads and searched for an optimum between the yield and the use of the road. For both projects, the demand drop is about 35%. How is privacy guaranteed? I have chosen to limit the use of personal data as much as possible. Firstly, there is an alternative route for both routes where no toll is levied. So you have a choice just not to be in the picture. Secondly, the legislative proposal contains a clear definition of the data which may be processed without permission for tolling. They may only be used for tolling purposes and may not be processed by anyone else without permission. Thirdly, it is regulated by law that the personal data collected after the set deadlines are deleted. The information is really gone. These measures minimise the breach of privacy. Why is the retention period two months with payment? Personal data shall be kept for a maximum of two months. This is necessary in order to be able to make corrections, because they are also possible in the case of active payments. Then they'll just be destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u96	I thank the Minister for all the answers to the questions put by D66. I want to go back to the point of the countries. It is nice that the Minister immediately gives us tips for work visits and holiday destinations. However, I also attach great importance to the words used by the Minister with regard to proven technology, namely that she also wants to use what has already been devised in other countries. I've got the list the Minister listed for me today. To what extent is this applicable for the Netherlands? I wonder if the free-flow system is something we are now going to pioneer with. We are, of course, looking at other countries, but the question is whether this is a one-on-one approach to how we intend to roll it out here in the Netherlands, specifically for the Blankenburg tunnel. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u97	I think there's a difference with the free-flow crossing at London, for example, where you're obviously in a crowded urban area. At the Golden Ears Bridge or Port Mann Bridge at Vancouver you will have much more to do with the same system as at the Blankenburg tunnel. The Blankenburg tunnel is actually relatively easy, because you enter a separate piece of infrastructure that is clearly a toll road. One of the reasons for me not to do the A13/A16 was the complexity of such an intertwined network. Also with the A15 that should not be too complicated, because you just pull through a separate piece. It doesn't exist yet. It is not a toll in the existing area. As far as I'm concerned, it's just possible to introduce such a free-flow system in the Netherlands. Within the diversity of examples I have given, it is possible to opt for projects that are the most similar to ours. The CDA has also asked a lot of questions. It has been asked whether I can assure you that the toll will not be charged longer than necessary. I replied to that. It gets a little shorter now, because many questions of course have a double. I have also answered the question about the 20% proportionality. An original question from the CDA is whether I'm going to differentiate by euro emission class. I didn't hear that question from the others. There are good reasons to refrain from differentiation by euro emission class in the Dutch situation. I am now talking to the European Commission about this. This leads to higher administrative burdens, it is complex in terms of implementation and it is difficult to enforce, especially for foreign vehicles. On the basis of the traffic forecasts used, I expect that a change in the toll rate for freight, for example, will also have a major impact on demand loss. The heavier loading of more polluting vehicles has the effect of diverting them to an alternative connection, and that in turn has an effect on the living environment. I want to do everything I can to create an exception for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u98	I have two interruptions: one on this subject and one on the first. I had heard the answer to Mr Madlener's question, but I wanted to see if there would be an addition to the answer to my question. That was not the case. The point is that other traffic flows can arise. I did not hear the answer very clearly, nor did I hear the answer to Mr Madlener's question. If more traffic flows are created by lifting the toll at some point, decisions will have to be taken again in terms of environmental legislation or other matters. It's gonna take a lot of time. That could make you take too long. I'd like to ask the Minister to go into that. Can she assure you we're not gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u99	In reply to Mrs Visser, I did answer that question. You can take a toll decision immediately, and you can withdraw it, but you will have to make the withdrawal available again. Interested parties can comment on this and the Council of State can also comment on it. When, for example, you have sufficient budget to withdraw such a toll decision, or when the toll has produced sufficient results, we will of course have to reflect traffic and environmental impacts. So you take a total decision, but this does not require a longer period than in the regular decision-making process. Except when a bag of money comes down at once, you can also foresee when the proceeds are almost ready and you can start preparing for lifting the toll decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u100	Then I understand that progress is indeed being made, and that this will not be the case, which is very pleasant. Then I come to my second interruption: about the emission class. I understand the Minister's story, but that wasn't actually the point I made. The question was more: why put it in the law if we don't want to do it after all? That's kind of weird, actually. We're not gonna do it, but we're gonna put it in there anyway. However, the Minister began to explain why she felt that it was not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u101	That is because it is mandatory at European level. You have to keep a good story with the European Commission why you think you can make an exception. I would very much like to make an exception, and I want to make a real effort to do so, but I fear that it will be somewhat provocative if we do not introduce it in advance. Then I come to the question of whether I want to test the approach with the invoice. The main reason that I did not choose to send an invoice is that an invoice for a few euro's toll makes the implementation of a toll system more expensive. It is also expected that many registration holders will wait for the invoice before paying the toll. We have had this discussion before, including in the answer to the questions. The privacy story applies here: from privacy protection, it is undesirable for NAW data to be processed without the consent of the data subject and without any violation. It is also difficult to collect abroad. Those are all reasons not to work that way. Further questions have been asked whether there has been consultation with the provinces about alternatives to the toll. The province has not yet approached me about not introducing a toll. Consultations with the province of Gelderland under MIRT are scheduled for November. As far as I'm aware, the province in the State Agreement has not reserved any funds for ending the toll. I therefore find it difficult to remove the toll without additional contributions, but I am always willing to talk about alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u102	I am very pleased to hear the latter, especially since it has been rightly pointed out that Gelderland as a region contributes a great deal to this national responsibility. However, I do not think that this is included in the coalition agreement is a very strong argument, because the toll is in principle only collected from, grab it, 2022. In that sense, you would not expect to see that in this coalition agreement. That is why I am calling for that consultation to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u103	As I indicated, they will be putting in for an MIRT meeting in November. In the end, we will only be able to decide to abolish it if there is a real budget available. They're already making quite a big contribution. So I don't expect much from them at that point either. But if they do, of course I'd like to talk to them about that. It has also been asked whether it is profitable for other countries to collect money from foreign offenders. I myself am responsible for collecting tolls from foreign road users. That's why I'm looking at these international collection agencies. The use of these agencies appears to be cost-effective. On the question of whether or not the legal basis is there, we have just had a discussion on this. I have already replied to one of Mr Houwers' comments. His other points are also very similar to the points that have already been made about collection, about abroad and about the opportunity to lift the law. Mr Bishop of the SGP has asked what makes these two projects different from other projects which justify tolls. Is this the beginning of the end? I would like to make no mistake that I will only take a toll on the financing of these two connections. Are these roads so completely different from other roads? This is a historic decision. It dates from 2006 and 2009. These projects are not so very different from other road projects, but they are relatively easier to interpret than, for example, if a road was widened or a section in a very dense network would be. The choice made in the past is mainly due to the fact that at that time these projects were not in the priority of the infrastructure fund, but were highly desirable by either the region or the market. That is why it was said by both my predecessors and the House at the time: then you should try to finance it in a different way, with a temporary toll. So there's no specific project behind it and, if it's up to me, it certainly doesn't get any follow-up. How does the 34% relate to the 20% cabinet position? The certainty about the implementation will only come when you know how the implementation will take place. I'm aiming for minimalization. In the high growth scenario it is 16% and in low economic growth it is 34%. For similar projects abroad, it appears to be 20% if the project is operational and road users are familiar with the toll. I will also try to send them: up to 20%, preferably even lower. Can the driver be punishable and fined without being the owner of the car? When I drive too fast with my husband's car, he really gets the fine. It's similar to that. Of course, that also applies if you drive a car that isn't yours and hasn't been paid for through a tunnel. If there is no NAW data available from the registration holder, a penalty may be imposed on the driver at that time at standing. As soon as the NAW data gets there, there'll just be a fine on the license plate. That's not so crazy in itself; that's common. I am therefore through answering the questions and I come to speak briefly on the four amendments. Even though not all the proposers have announced them in their speech, I will answer them all in the context of 'it is already late in the evening'. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 11 of the Houwers member. It calls for payment reminders to be sent to the registration holder prior to the notice. To this is my answer that I am aiming for a customer-friendly system where the payment of the toll is simple. I understand that it is more customer-friendly to first send an invoice without charging any charges, but the costs for such an invoice and the costs for the government make the implementation of a toll system much more expensive. It is expected that registration holders will wait for the invoice first. The target of 20% collection costs becomes more complex. I have just said that it is also undesirable, from the point of view of privacy protection, for NAW data to be retrieved without the consent of the data subject without any infringement. For these reasons, I reject this amendment. The same applies to Mr Hoogland's next amendment. After the first year of opening up the toll road, he proposed using a different regime. I have the same comment on this, namely that this will ultimately leave a gap in the budget and increase the collection costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u104	Does this relate to the amendment to item No. 13?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u105	Yes, this is the amendment to item No. 13. The amendment in part No. 12 had been revoked. Both amendments, of course, are subject to the fact that the Court of Justice has also asked me to go a little further in a letter about the costs of formal notice and the possibilities and opportunities. Then I'll also show you what it means for the total cost if you do and what it means if you don't. The Court will then have to draw a conclusion from this, as far as I am concerned, but in order to remove it, at least there will be a financial problem. I'd advise against that. Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland have tabled the amendment to item No. 14 submitted. This ensures that a General Measure of Management determines who is liable for toll rates rather than always the registration holder, without the need for any legal amendment. It provides for an implementation plan containing a description of the key elements of the toll system. The Court is involved because the implementation plan is placed before both Chambers of the States-General and serves as a basis for the procurement of the toll system. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I think it's good and I think it is a nice addition to leave more room for other models in the future than the models we know now. The existing model is of course registration number recognition, but other systems are also possible if they would have added value. At present, we only know this system, but that does not mean that we will not be able to know any other systems in the future that make it easier or more attractive to make payment. We will identify with General Measure of Management who is the paying agent, so that we can respond more quickly to future developments. With regard to the implementation system, another part of this amendment, I fully understand that the Court would like to look at this again, given the ease of use, reliability and low costs. It's a far-reaching charge. I therefore find it interesting to come back to that with the Chamber and to discuss it. I shall therefore leave the opinion on the amendment to the House. Finally, I come to the amendment on item No. 15 of Mr Van Helvert of the CDA, who he submitted together with Mrs Visser of the VVD and Mr Hoogland of the PvdA. This provides for the drawing up of an enforcement plan, including how enforcement will take place for vehicles with a foreign registration number. Here too, an enforcement plan is being requested from the States General. The enforcement plan should also be drawn up before tolls can be levied. The amendment is in line with my commitment to inform the Chamber about the design of the toll system and its enforcement. This amendment, too, is left to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u106	I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and assessing the amendments. There appears to be a need for a second deadline, and I shall give Mr Madlener the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. What's happening here is really unacceptable. There is absolutely no sight on inning for example Bulgarian license plates. It's totally unknown who drives a Bulgarian license plate. I can assure you that in the region where I live and where I drive every day, it is full of Bulgarian and Romanian plates. The Minister has given careful thought to how we can cost the Dutch and especially the inhabitants of Rijnmond and, of course, those in the other place where this toll collection will take place. That is not in Amsterdam, because most of the members of this Chamber are of course from Amsterdam. They don't get it. No, Rotterdam is screwed. And people don't even get a bill at home. If my uncle from Amsterdam, who isn't used to tolling at all, comes looking for me, he won't get an account at home. He is supposed to make a kind of transfer of the toll himself. I can assure you that this is going to lead to huge administrative costs, because of course he will forget or not, or his son will take his car once without hearing from him. Then he'll be tied up with all those letters of formal notice again. I find this really unacceptable. It's normal that if you do something, you get an account for that, right? The Minister doesn't do that. "No, because then the collection costs go up." It's really crazy. And yet, as it seems now, the Chamber is going to agree to this bill. So without a proper payment arrangement and without Bulgarians and Romanians going to pay the bills, the Minister asks for the bill to be accepted. I find it unacceptable. I will therefore advise my group to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u108	Don't run away yet, Mr. Madlener. Mr Hoogland has one more comment. You're a little slow on interrupting today, Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u109	Is there any possibility that Mr Madlener will vote in favour of the amendment, whether amended or not, which we are proposing at least to reduce the costs of warning in the first year? I can imagine him voting against the bill, in his position, but that proposal might still ease the pain for his uncle in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u110	I know you, Mr Hoogland, from Rotterdam. We were both on the council there. We are among the few Rotterdammers in the Chamber. I am very disappointed that you, of all people, are going to charge the Rotterdamers with this terrible law. You know that the Bulgarians do not have to pay, because we cannot trace them; the Minister does not yet have that in order. But that means that the inhabitants of Rijnmond have to pay. They need this infrastructure, because it belongs to the Second Maasvlakte. The people from Spijkenisse are in traffic every day in front of that bridge. Finally, they can take a tunnel now. And what are you going to do? You're chasing them on charges with all kinds of reminder fees. I find it really very disappointing, of course, of you, Mr Hoogland. It has been asked whether I can support the limp amendment, for a transitional period of one year, for one year's account. You can say it's better than nothing, but it's very limited. Mr Hoogland, I think you're gonna leave the Rijnmondin incredibly in the lurch. I think you should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u111	That was a very long answer to a simple question: are you prepared to support that amendment? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u112	I am prepared to vote against this bill, in order to protect the Rotterdammer from all these reminder costs. I think that's the best way to do it. And I don't know if I'm going to support your lame amendment. I still have to think about that. But it is really too crazy for words that you still dare to ask me here with such a weak amendment if I am going to support it. I really don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mr. Chairman. I am surprised that Mr Madlener is taking such a strong tone. I've been thinking: when was the PVV before toll again? I remember a 2010 debate. I then debated with Mr De Mos. Then it was about the A3. The PVV wanted to build the A3. The Minister then promised to investigate it and the PVV wanted to pay it by toll. It is really crazy for words that the PVV makes such a huge turn and then takes such a strong tone. But be honest: in the past, the PVV was just for toll. We're against toll. That is because we are in favour of solidarity. If you take a toll on the Blankenburg tunnel, you actually force the Rotterdammers to pay for their own roads, while the roads in the rest of the Netherlands are paid by everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u114	I have a news report from 2012 from Rijnmond. It states that Minister Schultz has promised the PVV that passenger transport does not have to pay a toll for the tunnel west of Rotterdam. That's a commitment to the PVV. That commitment didn't come out of the blue. It came because we had asked for it. So don't go pretending we're for toll now. That's not true. We are in favour of this road, but against toll.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u115	I remember the 2010 debate. A report has been drawn up on this subject, so Mr Madlener can read it. If the PVV found something else in 2012, then the turn is made. However, it is a fact that the PVV was for toll to build the A3 from Rotterdam to Amsterdam. In any case, it is nice that the PVV has now made the turn and is against toll. I call that progress. I have listened to the Minister's reply and I am getting a strange feeling about this bill. A lot of things still have to be sorted out and a lot still needs to be done. However, a bill in such a state is submitted to the Chamber. In the end, tolls have to be introduced in 2022, and now we have a bill with so many open ends and so much unclearness. I wonder if it would be wise to enforce the bill in this way. I would therefore ask the Minister to withdraw this bill and reconsider all the consequences, especially with regard to foreign registrations. If the Minister does not, I will advise my group to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on lower administrative costs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the toll rate currently proposed for passenger cars is €1,18;]] [[whereas a reminder fee of €7 will be charged in the event of non-payment;]] [[considers that the ratio between the toll rate and the letter of formal notice is not in balance;]] [[calls on the Government to keep the amount of non-payment to an absolute minimum, thus limiting the number of notices and the associated costs for both the public and the user;]] [[calls on the Government to respect the principle of proportionality in terms of the cost of the reminder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland and Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34189-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u117	Furthermore, I am considering a change to the amendment on the costs of reminder, so that we remain within the framework of the General Administrative Law Act, but we can still look at a period when no costs are charged. Finally, I note that the Court will continue to monitor developments closely. The same applies to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Visser... No, Mr Hoogland, do not discuss each other during the debate. That's what I'm gonna tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr. Chairman. It's still a special evening; let's just leave it at that. I thank the Minister for her reply. I would also like to thank her for looking at some of the essential points raised in this debate and for consulting the Chamber on them. These are, for example, the foreign registration companies, the privacy and the notices. These are essential matters. We do see the need to continue this process, but we also have mixed feelings; the Minister expressed them as well. We believe that we should continue this route because these roads should simply be there and, unfortunately, there is no other option. However, this does not mean that we are in favour of tolls. It's still a "no, unless." In this context, I would like to come back to a number of points. Mr Hoogland has just tabled a motion on our behalf asking the Minister to look again at proportionality. Are there any other ways you could set up the reminder fee? In that context, I would also like to mention the question of how quickly you can withdraw the toll, which I made in my contribution. Colleagues asked the same thing. The Minister replied: there are all kinds of measures and you can foresee a number of things. However, we also know the Netherlands, with all the procedures, and we know that sometimes things can take longer than you put in beforehand. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the withdrawal of the toll is carried out by a toll decision;]] [[noting that the interests of road safety, the environment and the environment should be taken into account;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[Whereas toll collection is intended only to finance road construction;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for the toll to continue at the time the net revenues are equal to the tolling;]] [[calls on the Government to make preparations as soon as possible to end the toll as soon as it is foreseeable that the net declarations will be equal to the tolls in the foreseeable future, so that it does not last longer than is strictly necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34189-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u120	As far as we are concerned, it cannot be that the toll is lifted and we cannot then drive there, because all kinds of procedures still have to be followed. I have also asked the Minister what incentives there are and whether you can reduce the costs in the contracts that may be concluded. Mr Bishop of the SGP, who is now absent, also mentioned this. The cost of implementation varies considerably between 16% and 34%. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is uncertainty as to the cost of implementing the toll on the Blankenburg link and the ViA15;]] [[noting that costs may be between 16% and 34% of total tolls;]] [[considers that the costs of implementing the toll should be as low as possible, since these costs should also be charged by means of tolls;]] [[calls on the Government to seek an incentive to keep the costs of paying tolls on the Blankenburg link and the ViA15 below 20% of total tolls and to inform the Court of the expected costs of implementing tolls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34189-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u121	Mr. Chairman. The lifting of tolls is not this minister's hobby. I would almost say: perhaps it would be good if she were to make a hobby of that or at least find the motivation to do so. After all, there are still a lot of challenges in putting the implementation in place properly. This was demonstrated by the many concerns and critical notes made by the Chamber during this evening's debate. I would like to repeat that D66 is not fundamentally opposed to tolling. However, there are still many questions that need to be clarified. I understand that the Minister will keep the Chamber involved through an amendment, but it is important for my group to hear from the Minister tonight why the present law should now be dealt with by the Chamber and why it should be put to the vote. Then it's clear why the bill is the way it is now. We will get the implementation plans from the Minister. So we are going to talk about this, but there is no harm in giving the Minister some messages. The D66 Group would like to draw attention to a number of issues and I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this legislative proposal creates a legal basis for the future tolling of the Blankenburg connection and ViA15;]] [[noting that at present there is no clarity as to the further development of various aspects of the toll, including the manner in which privacy-sensitive data is handled;]] [[Whereas the further development of the toll system will be submitted to the Court before implementation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that privacy-sensitive data are kept for no longer than strictly necessary and to inform the Chamber of their precise content when providing the details of the system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hachchi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34189-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u122	Finally. The Minister is going to send the Chamber a letter as soon as possible, which is already well filled with points such as notice, payment and the treaty relating to collection. Can the Minister also state clearly in that letter what financial support there is? Can it also comment on the realism of that 20%, which it is holding on to? Can the Minister also respond to the inspection, capacity and what this means for the number of people and the budget? Is that 20% or what? If all this is in it, the letter is more complete and the Chamber needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I have a few more questions. The Minister made a fine remark. She mentioned the cancellation of the €7 notice if an account is quickly created. Is that a suggestion or a commitment? You would almost say: we should also move it quickly. I don't have it so ready, but I think it's a very good one. That way we reward and even stimulate good behavior. I also have a question about the basis which Mrs Visser mentioned a modest number of times in her speech and interruptions. Is that foundation gonna be back in the letter? In itself, she does make a point, which she underlined by calling it a number of times. I have another question that I haven't heard an answer to. Are all the plates gonna be recognized or not? I'd like to be clear about that. Finally, I ask the Minister whether this law is "objection proof." I remember that in 1993 I was 15 years old when the first carpool strip of Europe was opened on the A1. On this strip only cars with three or more occupants were allowed to drive. On the day of the official opening by Minister Maij-Weggen, former Minister of Transport and Water State Tjerk Westerterp drove on his own across the carpool strip to provoke a trial. The judge then proved him right. Of course, we do not want to see such a thing in this case. So I'm gonna ask the Minister if that's been looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the various questions. If I understand correctly, the system only works if everyone pays. So also foreigners are going to pay. I really think I understood that. Then I ask the Minister, and perhaps I will think about this together with Mr Hoogland, to deal with the suggestion for an alternative to this €7. I imagine it's one-off free of charge. I can also imagine you giving the money back the moment you create an account. In any case, I would like to have an answer to that in order to see what is ultimately possible. If I am well informed, there is still a feeling in Gelderland that it may be possible without toll. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to update us on any contacts with Gelderland at the time this is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for the questions. I can briefly comment on the motions that have been tabled and on the comments that have been made. Mr Madlener made a comment on Bulgarians. In fact, all countries are treated the same, only with some countries we have a treaty and with others we do not. For the countries with which we do not yet have a treaty, I hope to use the international collection system. It is not that we want to ignore some countries and others do not. It is a pity that the PVV indicates to consider voting against. I hope that she will consider this again, because in the end it is about the realization of important links for the Rotterdam region, which Mr Madlener is always taming on. It would be a shame if those connections didn't come. So I'm actually expecting his support for this. I think that is more important than the question of whether or not Bulgarians paid the bill in time. The SP said: Madam Minister, the law is not yet ready, there is still much open, you cannot withdraw it and submit it later, otherwise we might want to vote against it. But the essence of starting now with the law is that the route decisions are based on a toll. For that, it is necessary that that law is in force. This also provides a basis for asking other parties to implement it. This is done in many countries by market players, who have all kinds of creative ideas for how it can be designed. We give you the framework conditions: the maximum collection costs, what it has to pay and the deadline for it. In the end, a lot of the introduction ideas are conceived with the tender. The adoption of the route decision is planned for the Blankenburg tunnel in spring 2016. The toll law must therefore be put into effect. That is an immediate answer to Mrs Hachchi's question which I would answer. So the law is so open because it starts out like some kind of start-up law. The filling comes if you choose toll at a later time. That's not a crazy procedure. It's basically like the Environment Act: you start with a main law and fill it out further if you decide how you want it. Mr Hoogland of the PvdA and Mrs Visser of the VVD have the motion in part No. 16 on the level of the costs of formal notice and the principle of proportionality. As regards limiting the number of notices, I will promote the use of an account as much as possible. As far as proportionality is concerned, I refer to the standard fee. I think that this is proportional to all other tariffs in the country. However, I had already told Mrs Visser, Mr Houwers and Mr Hoogland that I would indicate in a letter what is going on with these rates and what happens when you deduct them. As a result, we can talk briefly politically about whether this is desirable or not. I therefore consider this motion to be a policy support. I'll try to answer it through the letter. The PvdA indicated that there might be another change to the amendment to item No. 13. I'll have to look at it in due course. If the PvdA wants an answer from the government to that, that change should actually come before that letter. If the Chamber says "we don't have to, we'll look into it ourselves," I'll find out. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 17 of the VVD. It states that the toll decision must be able to be withdrawn in sufficient time so that you do not continue to drive and pay only because of the procedures. I certainly think it is important that the toll stops in good time as soon as the necessary revenues are in. You should never ask for money for something that's already been paid off. So I see the motion as supporting policy and will organise it in this way. The motion in part No. 18 of the VVD refers to the 20% cost of implementation. The incentive to keep implementation costs low is already there, because I want as much money as possible to the infra-funds and so as little as possible to the implementation. I will inform the Chamber in the implementation plan about the expected collection costs. I therefore see this motion as a support for policy. Mrs. Hachchi would like me to make a hobby of the toll bill. I do not want to make a hobby of the toll law, but I want to make sure that it lands as well as possible for the users of the roads. So I want to cause as little nuisance as possible in that area. I have given the answer to the question of why the law should now be introduced: the route decision is based on tolling and will be adopted in the spring of 2016. For this, it is important that the toll decision is taken now. This will then allow us to take a step further to the implementation side. The motion in part No. 19 of D66 is about privacy. It invites the government to keep the privacy sensitive data for no longer than is strictly necessary and to inform the Chamber of the precise details. Privacy is very important to me. Therefore, the maximum retention period is also two months. As has already been said, I shall return to the effect. I see the motion as a policy support. I have just said a few words about the letter on financial support. I think Mrs Hachchi has asked a few more questions about what else should be in it. I don't remember all that exactly anymore, but I don't think those were things that I would say I don't want to share with the Chamber. So I'm sure that's written down somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u126	Otherwise, Mrs. Hachchi would have written it down. I had asked the Minister to deal with the 20% and specifically the ILT. Is it in that 20%? How many people and how much budget are we talking about? If the Minister can take that with him in that letter, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u127	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u128	I almost feel a little blackmailed because the Minister is now pretending that without this toll there would be no tunnel at all. That route decision has yet to be taken. Suppose the VVD and the PvdA didn't do that from the Infrastructure Fund and there was enough money to build these roads without toll. Wouldn't it have been possible for the Minister to take a route decision next year without a toll?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u129	When Mr Madlener was not yet inside, I told him that in the five years before the Rutte cabinet, much less billions were spent on infrastructure than in the five years that the Rutte cabinet is now there. It is then 6.6 billion per year versus 7.9 billion per year in this period. So it is not so much that less money has been made available. The fact is that in 2006 and 2009 it was chosen to finance three roads based on tolls. The budget that was available, I used to buy out the A13/A16. If there were any more budget she would be free, I could have used it to buy out the A15 extension and the Blankenburg tunnel. However, there is no such budget, but there was no such budget. So it is not so much about this grip as it is about the fact that the money is simply not there. So there is no choice for me but to finance it this way. I would therefore point out to Mr Madlener that, by aligning the toll law, he will not be able to take that route decision on the Blankenburg tunnel and the A15, which is not only very important for Gelderland but also for the port of Rotterdam. He is also responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u130	That is a very different story from what the Minister wants to believe. She says that if the Chamber does not vote in favour of this toll bill, that tunnel cannot be constructed. I would remind the Minister of a commitment she made in 2012 when, as a PVV, she promised us that this road would be possible without toll. That was her own commitment. So don't go pretending that we can't vote against this law because that road won't go on. That road will not go through because the VVD and the PvdA have cut back on the Infrastructure Fund. Otherwise, there would have been plenty of money. The Minister has other priorities, because there is money to accommodate asylum seekers, to give money to Greece and so on. We all know that. So don't act like this road can't go on without a toll. It's the cabinet's choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u131	No, because I was in those negotiations with the PVV not to abolish the toll for the entire tunnel but only for passenger transport. At that time it was not about freight transport because there was just a toll on it and the PVV agreed with it. That passenger transport was part of the negotiations and that budget had to rest on other roads. At the time when the PVV stopped taking responsibility and did not want to support the cabinet, I said: then I would divide it again as it was originally intended on the three different roads. So that had nothing to do with the cuts. It has to do with the fact that if you support a cabinet, you can also get something in the negotiations. If that support isn't there anymore, it's gonna go away. I can tell Mrs Hachchi that the costs of collecting the toll system are covered by the toll revenues of up to 20%. The costs of the notice are covered by the notice fee and the ILT costs are simply covered by the enforcement and penalty revenues. I shall, by the way, let that come back to me in the letter so that it is clear. The CDA asked what exactly happened to the €7. Is there a motion for a resolution on this now? I have promised the Chamber a letter, which will state what I would prefer to do............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The financial consequences will be mentioned. I'm sure I'll tell you what I prefer, because variants will of course have to be covered. I have already said that I will return to the legal basis for the collection agencies. In my opinion, it is possible, because it is also possible in other countries. As Mr Van Helvert's third point, I have 'proof' on a page. I think this was the same thing: is what we want legally proof? Mr Houwers asked whether all foreign registrations could be registered. The systems can record all the plates. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u132	Suppose Gelderland finds a game somewhere and consults with the minister. Does the Minister intend to report to us on this as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u133	Sure, I'll admit it. At the next MIRT meeting, I will have talks with the provinces. Then I will send a letter to the Chamber, which always gives me a thorough answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u134	We shall vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions in two weeks' time. I thank the Minister, her officials, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and those who have followed this debate in a different way.
