ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. You'll only be the mother of an 11-year-old daughter who's been waiting three months for a recording for a three-month treatment with probe nutrition, a mother who's desperate because she sees anorexia grab her daughter. Or you'll just be the father of a daughter who ran into the arms of a lover boy and has to wait six months for treatments. Or as a younger person, you're going to be severely depressed, you're not gonna see life anymore, you're gonna have to walk around with suicidal thoughts and you're gonna have to wait six months for help. That is unbearable, undesirable and unacceptable. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? How could it have come to this? At the beginning of this year, the new Youth Act entered into force. This law abolished the right to care. Not the family or the paramedic could say what help was needed, but the municipal official. For example, this year youth care institutions received as much as 80% cuts, on top of the cuts of previous years. Additional aid workers were fired again, resulting in rising waiting lists and children who are not being helped. Once again, the SP finds this undesirable, inhuman and unacceptable. This Secretary of State is and will remain responsible for ensuring that children receive help on time. My only question to this Secretary of State is whether he is going to ensure that these children and these families receive the help they need within a month and that the waiting lists are resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Like Mrs Kooiman, I have taken note of the news reports. I believe that it was mainly Nieuwsuur about waiting lists in the youth ggz. I agree with her that children who need help should also get that help. She rightly points out that since 1 January, municipalities have a duty to provide appropriate youth assistance for children and families who need it. Municipalities are expected to agree with the providers of care to complete the youth aid obligation, even if there is an increase in demand that is greater than expected and the resulting budgetary consequences. It is mainly the city council that has to oversee that. It controls the municipal administration in the implementation of the Youth Act. Of course, I also keep my finger on the pulse in terms of its development. I will also be able to understand that with the VNG. For the moment, however, I see that municipalities take their youth aid light very seriously. If a child care provider finds that waiting lists are being created and cannot be referred to another provider who may have room for them, it is primarily up to the provider to sit down with the municipality to ensure that the waiting lists are removed or that other agreements are made. I'll keep the congregations by their youth aid lights. Following these signals, I will also understand with the VNG to see if this is more common. First of all, the municipality must ensure that good care is bought in. If this results in frictions, consultation is needed between the municipality and the healthcare provider concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	When I hear this answer from the Secretary of State, I just think: what does this mean to the mother who has been waiting for help for her daughter with anorexia for three months? What does this tell the younger one who's got suicidal thoughts right now? He can't wait six months for help. I just want a clear answer. Can the Secretary of State ensure that these problems are resolved within a month? This Secretary of State is the Secretary of State who has chosen to make substantial cuts in youth care, which has increased the waiting lists. I do remember a game: there are billions on the shelf with the health insurance companies. How can you sell this to parents who are now waiting for help, or to children who are now depressed and need a recording? Again, what will the Secretary of State do now to ensure that these children are helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would point out to Mrs Kooiman that the cuts in youth aid in 2015 are very limited. It's not about the percentage she just mentioned. That does not alter the fact that sometimes it means that it is organised in a different way. We should not just look at the youth ggz, but at the broad palette of education support, youth aid and youth ggz. Municipalities must ensure that sufficient supply is available in terms of quantity and quality. If a healthcare provider comes to the conclusion that it is stuck with him, then it should be considered whether there are other providers who can do it. Otherwise there will have to be a discussion with the municipalities, because they are responsible for this. They must ensure that adequate care is bought in. That is where the solution should initially be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	I'm getting caught up in this. Discussions, action plans and discussions with the VNG are not helping people. People help people. I appeal to this Secretary of State. He was, is and remains responsible for good care for children. I ask him not to bake the health insurance companies that have millions on the shelf, but to put in a few million to get rid of those waiting lists. I repeat, people help people. I ask this Secretary of State, man to man, what he will do to help these children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	From man to man we have arranged very neatly with each other that the municipality has a duty to purchase sufficient qualitative and quantitative care. If a healthcare provider develops a waiting list that cannot be resolved in time, a call should be made between the healthcare provider and the relevant municipality, so that the municipality can take appropriate measures. We, I, are monitoring whether the municipality is complying with the youth aid obligation by examining with the VNG whether bottlenecks can be created at all. It must not be allowed for the Chamber to hold a general discussion when a supplier says that waiting lists are created for him. The best thing for the people who are involved, so the mother, the father and the children, is that the problem is solved. The municipality concerned must therefore purchase sufficient care in consultation with the healthcare provider. That's the best way to tackle this, not by talking in general about a waiting list problem. It just needs to be resolved on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	The Secretary of State has the opportunity to solve this on the spot by choosing to invest money now. This doesn't help parents, and neither does kids. I ask this Secretary of State to resolve it within a month, but I note that the political will is lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	Sometimes there is a need to react. Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	I heard the Secretary of State at the beginning say that young people must quickly get the care they need. That's good. He's going to talk to municipalities to see how that can be realized. However, before we enter into a discussion about what we want and what it looks like ideally, I ask him simply and specifically whether the discussion with the UNG is about standards. For this we had Treek standards: four weeks before you had an intake, four weeks before you could get a diagnosis, eight weeks before you could be admitted intramurally, if necessary. Is the Secretary of State talking to municipalities in such a concrete way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	No, not like that. We have included in the Youth Act that we are not looking at parts of the provision of care, whether it is youth assistance, youth care or youth health care, but at the total amount of assistance. We'll monitor that. We have agreed that we will examine how things are going so that we can debate in the Chamber whether things are going well. We don't have to look at the situation on a case-by-case basis. That is precisely the movement we are making with the Youth Act. Yes, we are following up on the issue of youth aid, but following up on the individual components is something we should be careful about, because we may unnecessarily restrict municipalities who choose other solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	The CDA voted for that Youth Act. That's the problem here. The Secretary of State told us that things were getting better. He just didn't put the emphasis on those 15% cuts. That's why there's waiting lists now. The Secretary of State can let everything slide, but what does he do when a girl or a boy dies from anorexia because he or she is on a waiting list because of his cuts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	First of all, I will check whether this waiting list occurs with one or more healthcare providers or with all healthcare providers. After all, it is a question of helping the girl or the boy and their family as soon as possible. If insufficient care appears to have been purchased, the purchaser of the youth care provider who has the duty of youth aid, i.e. the municipality, must enter into discussions with the healthcare provider. The municipality must assess whether there is a waiting list at this or that institution or whether there can be a referral to another healthcare provider who does have space. The priority must be that the girl or the boy can be helped as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	I always disagree with our Minister for Health, but if I said to her: we would not let a child with a broken leg walk, because there are waiting lists, I am sure she would say immediately: no, I will intervene. Why doesn't the Secretary of State do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	In the Health Insurance Act there is a duty of care for the purchasers of care, namely the health insurance companies. They must buy care and therefore have bought sufficient treatment for broken legs. Here, too, the youth aid obligation applies to municipalities. Municipalities can be held to purchase sufficient care in consultation with the healthcare providers. Exactly the same system applies here. Insurers have a duty to care and municipalities have a duty to help young people and therefore have to buy enough care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
