ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u1	Did I welcome the Minister yet? I don't think so. Well, at least I'm doing that on this one. We have nineteen participants from the Chamber. So that's gonna be a seat for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. The promotion of adequate employment is the subject of public concern, as stated in Article 19 of the Constitution. Can the Minister tell us how he has carried out this task of care from the Constitution over the past three years? We are not returning to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If the minister's worried, it seems to be a terrible concern to him. This cabinet put the job engine in its reverse and the job shredder. According to the CBS, savings have resulted in some 166,000 jobs being lost. Unemployment is high and is projected to remain high. Earlier, I said that the Minister could better reduce the word "employment" from the Ministry of Social Affairs. That was meant to be a warning. But what did we get? A Jobs Plan for sectors that do not create jobs and a Jobs Plan for sectors that have not been created. A few hundred million went into the pit. I can only conclude that the Minister is violating the Constitution on this point and thus harming hundreds of thousands of unemployed people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u3	Mr Ulenbelt is talking about a minister who is damaging the Constitution. Then Parliament can only follow one action by the SP in the second term: a motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr Van Weyenberg knows that the SP is a very reasonable party. We shall begin the debate. It is a pity, however, that a minister cannot be arrested if he violates the Constitution. It is up to the Chamber, as Mr Van Weyenberg says, but we are going to have another debate. I could start to think differently if Mr Van Weyenberg now said he would support such a motion of censure, but he probably does not. He's also waiting for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u5	Yes, but I did not blame Mr Ulenbelt either. I note, moreover, that my party's view seems to have a significant influence on Mr Ulenbelt's behaviour. I'm glad to hear about that. After this announcement, I am very curious whether he will be reassured, or else we will look at the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u6	It's been incorporated into the Constitution for a reason. The term "employment" is also included in the title of the Ministry of Employment. So this is a serious matter. In 2015, so this year, there would be a huge shortage of staff, a shortage of 375,000 people. If it weren't for intervention, we wouldn't have enough hands on the bed and there wouldn't be any more damsels in front of the classroom. That was a 2008 prediction by the Bakker Commission, supported by figures from the CPB. The then Minister and Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Donner and Klijnsma, took over that ink black scenario. I must admit that the Secretary of State has been right on one point. There are too few hands in the care, not because of a shortage of people, but because of the dismissal of people, by destroying jobs in the care and by the hands of the cabinet. The counter of destroyed orbits is now at 72,000 and that counter is ticking. A debate has just been requested on TSN, where 12,000 redundancies are imminent. That's where we see it happening. But unlike the prediction, there are no shortage of employees this year. More than 600,000 people are looking for work. So there is a deficit of 600,000 jobs. The Bakker Committee, the CPB and the Secretary of State were all wrong, not just a little bit but over 1 million people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u7	Mr Van Weyenberg has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u8	Mr Ulenbelt mentioned points relating to the contribution of the Secretary of State. I'm looking at "K" and the Secretary of State is missing. That raises the following question to me: where is the Secretary of State? And why have we already started?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u9	The latest news is the Secretary of State is on his way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u10	That's kind of weird. We have here the most important debate of the year with both directors...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u11	You wanted to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u12	As far as I'm concerned, we'll suspend until the Secretary of State arrives. I find it extremely remarkable that we must apparently wait for the Secretary of State. Mr Ulenbelt mentioned all sorts of points...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u13	For such an order proposal, I need a majority. I read an order debate and ask Members to speak on it. The proposal is to suspend pending the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u14	I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u15	If a colleague makes that request, I am fine with it, but it should not take half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u16	She's on her way. That's all we know. I hear a door opening... and I see the Secretary of State coming in. Speaking of the devil... that's another entrance, Madam Secretary of State. I'm a state official. You're out of breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u17	I pulled a sprint.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u18	Then we'd like to have your lap times. Mr Ulenbelt continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u19	You want me to start over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u20	If you could just sum it up briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u21	I'm sure it's all written down somewhere. Mr. Chairman. Because of that false prediction, a very important decision has been made, namely increasing the age of AOW and then accelerating its increase. Keeping more people on the labour market by raising the age of AOW creates unemployment. Does the Secretary of State regret the increase in the AOW age with the knowledge of today? Does it regret that, on the basis of incorrect information, it has been able to convince its constituents of that increase in the AOW age? In short, Secretary of State: a shortage of people was predicted and we now have 600,000 unemployed. That's not right. That's not consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u22	Does Mr Ulenbelt regret his election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u23	No, it included at least that the AOW age would remain 65 years until 2020. We would not have had this discussion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u24	That's incorrect. According to the transfer of the CPB, the AOW income is made dependent. For a small part of the population, the AOW age would remain 65 years old by 2020, but not for a large part. So again my question: does Mr Ulenbelt regret his election programme on behalf of the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u25	In the counter-budget for next year, we are again proposing not to increase the AOW age. The AOW age remains 65 years until 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u26	I took the counter-budget. It seems necessary for Mr Ulenbelt to quote from that. The SP limits the age increase of the AOW. In 2016, the AOW age increases by five instead of six months. Isn't that a whole other thing than saying that the AOW age isn't going to go up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u27	I know Mr Van Weyenberg is going blind on the CPB, but this is a typo. The amounts we are making for it are precisely the amounts involved in the increase in the AOW age next year. We are fully compensating for this increase. So?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u28	We have an independent mathematician. I didn't hear from the presentation that the SP said it was all wrong. I really did not hear Mr Roemer say anything about that in the General Political Reviews. I repeat my question. The increase goes from six to five months. I admit to Mr Ulenbelt that this is less than a month, but Mr Ulenbelt's sum is wrong. If he wants to reverse the rise in the age of AOW, he has to hand in money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u29	We have an AOW package of 100 million in our counter-budget for next year. That can be paid for. The SP had Maurice de Hond present the following question to the Dutch electorate. Are you for or against further raising the AOW age? The answer is clear: 69% is against. Among all major parties, the majority of voters oppose this further increase. Even among the electorate of the party who is always beating herself up that she is the inventor of the increase in the AOW age, D66, a majority of 64% opposed. Of the electorate of the State Secretary's party, that is as much as 73%, as I say to Mrs Vermeij. It is not surprising that we are proposing that the increase in the AOW age for 2016 should not continue. The question is whether the government wants to take over. A very acidic consequence of the increase in the AOW age is the 65-plus hole. As a result, at the end of their working lives, older people fall into an income gap. Their early benefit scheme or other insurance ends and then you have to see how you get around between your 65th and the increased AOW age. There is a bridging arrangement but for the second or third time in a row there is less use of it than the cabinet had budgeted. That also makes sense, because this bridging arrangement adds to the social minimum where people had counted on AOW and pension. There is money left and the question is whether the Secretary of State would like to use it to increase the bridging regime. Drees said old and poor should not go hand in hand. What happens under this cabinet is that getting older and getting poorer go hand in hand. I am referring to the non-indexation of pensions. As it now seems, there is no price compensation for older people for ten years and perhaps longer due to the approach of the cabinet and the Dutch Bank. The question is what the government is going to do about this so that age does not become synonymous with poverty. In addition to many older people, many children are having a hard time, because despite the wealth in the Netherlands more and more children are growing up in poverty. At the start of the Rutte cabinet in 2010, there were 300,000 children living in poverty. That has now grown to 400,000. Everyone is proud of the growth rates, but nobody can be proud of these growth rates of 33% of children in poverty. When is the cabinet finally going to work on combating poverty? At the end of 2012, the Minister promised the SP to walk the fire out of his shoes for these children. That "shoes" was not a mistake, because the expression is of course "walking the fire out of the slippers," but the minister was offered a petition from us in a forest of 6,000 children's shoes. He took one shoe with him. I have the other shoe here, in memory of the promises made by the Minister at the time, but we have not seen anything from that fire. We didn't see that fire. That is why my group makes two specific proposals. I hope that the Minister will get out of his way for that. Firstly, we propose that the government should comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and lift the reservation so that there is an independent right of children to social security. The reservations that the government is now making lead to distressing situations, situations in which children are starving or even expelled from their homes. Our appeal to the Minister is: do as other countries and regulate the independent right for children to social security! Secondly, we propose to introduce the child package for all municipalities. Going to school hungry is a scandal, but not to birthday parties, clubs, outings or the library can lead to social isolation and disadvantage. There are municipalities that solve this and take the hits for the children with a child package, but not all municipalities do. We ask the government to arrange for these children to be entitled to a child package for all municipalities. Will the Minister do that? If he does, as far as I'm concerned, he can get the other shoe. Then the pair is complete. But if you don't, I'll keep it. Minister Asscher would come up with a plan to substantially increase the minimum youth wage or perhaps even abolish the half-wage for young people, but there is no proposal. Why not? Rutte wouldn't let you do that? In a newspaper we read: we are not going to do that! Does the Minister allow himself to be muzzled by the Central Planning Bureau, because according to a highly questionable study this would cost jobs? Where is the Minister who acknowledged that the minimum youth wage is a real problem? Where is the minister who said it's almost impossible to do if you work 18- or 19-year-olds and have to pay the rent? And where is the proposal to abolish the piecework? That was also a problem. Where is it? When's it due? Or is it just fine words again and young people are disappointed in this respect? Under a social-democratic minister there has never been so much cessation and action: for wages, for certain jobs, for respect... in the metal industry we now know the longest strike in 40 years. The Minister doesn't say a word about it. In the ports there are also threats of strikes, but the Minister is silent. Even the most vulnerable workers in the Netherlands are on strike. I'm talking about the people in the social workshop. Last week, 7,000 demonstrated here in The Hague, at the Malieveld. 20 of those who paid a visit to the Association of Dutch Municipalities were actually arrested at the request of the VNG, one might say. They were in jail for hours! The Secretary of State, who is responsible for this, kept silent. The Secretary of State, whom she has side by side with my group, has gone for the preservation of social workshops, should it have cried out and stood up for the warriors of the workshops? I am giving her the opportunity to put that right and to stand up for these people. The cabinet makes the social workshops death homes. There's no one left to turn to. Meanwhile, there are deficits: 45 million in 2016, 86 million in 2020. As a result, vulnerable people in well-run companies lose their jobs. The Secretary of State and the Minister know the examples: Hameland in the Achterhoek. The SP Group wants to keep the social workshops. She wants a good collective agreement for SW employees. Is the Secretary of State prepared to release the necessary 60 million for the SW? There's money left in the sector plans. The Minister, who also always stands up for those who fight or at least say so, can now take action and turn nice talk into support for stabbing, combative people in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u30	I just heard Mr Ulenbelt argue that the SP, like the Labour Party, would like to see a decent collective agreement for the people in the social workshops and that the SP, like the Labour Party, would like to see money released to give shape and substance to that decent collective agreement. Now the cabinet recently introduced the low-income advantage. This leads to a subsidy for many people employed by the social workshops. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, the resulting reduction in wage costs can be used for a decent wage increase for people in the social workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u31	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u32	Why did the SP vote against that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u33	That's almost asking about the familiar road. If you spend nearly 500 million on labour costs subsidies for employers, that money will also be paid to employers who do not need it at all. Moreover, according to calculations, it would create 7,000 jobs. This is a repeat of the mistake of the job plans or the sector plans, as they are called: spending 500 million on 7 000 jobs every year!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u34	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u35	I have another follow-up question. The low income advantage is going to bring real money for social workshops and, as a result, money for collective bargaining. But the only thing the SP did in the debate on the low income advantage was to make a proposal which would reduce the amount of money going to the social workshops by raising the so-called hourly criterion. Should I summarize Mr Ulenbelt's story as follows? He says he wants extra money for the people in the social workshops, but when it comes down to it, he first makes a proposal for less money to go there and eventually vote completely against that law, so that, if it were up to Mr Ulenbelt, no money would go to those people. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u36	We are not the Labour Party. We don't do that kind of trick: first take money away, then give it a little bit and then say it's gotten better. We don't. No, what we are doing is part of those 500 million targeted uses for the social workshops. Supersocial. Super strong. The PvdA should do the same! So we want a real job plan and sustainable jobs for the long-term unemployed. So, as far as we are concerned, part of that 500 million wage bill I was talking about with Mr Kerstens is going to a job plan for people who are long-term unemployed in the welfare system. These are real, useful, paid jobs, for example as helpers in libraries, at art institutions, as eyes in the neighbourhood, at associations, sports clubs, schools, as janitors. If we use that money in a targeted way, we can create about 30,000 jobs. If you put that money into 30,000 jobs, I say to Mr Kerstens, it would be a thousand times more wise to nail down 500 million so that it would create 7,000 jobs. The Minister will undoubtedly embrace our plan, because if you get so many more jobs for the same money, then the choice cannot be difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u37	Here I come again. Should the plan presented by Mr Ulenbelt generate 30,000 jobs, this would be a major improvement on the 250,000 jobs that would cost the SP election programme. I will give that to Mr Ulenbelt. My question is as follows. Over the last few weeks, there has been talk in and outside the Chamber about the Tax Plan and the 500 million that now go to that low-income advantage. Why didn't he make that proposal then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u38	If you get blamed for making a proposal a little later... We thought it would be a good idea to deal with this in the Social Affairs budget. I thought Mr Kerstens wanted to say: why do you not support the Tax Plan, because that also creates 35,000 jobs? But he doesn't want to say that, because I think he doesn't believe in that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u39	I do believe in this, as trade unions also believe in it. They have called on, among other things, Mr Ulenbelt's party to vote in favour of the Tax Plan. I just don't understand why Mr Ulenbelt, if he really wants to achieve something, didn't take that moment to talk about it. That moment is over. Those 500 million go to the low-income advantage. The House of Representatives, in a very large majority, has said yes to this. Thanks to this law, we will soon be able to conclude a decent collective agreement for the people in the social workplace. So why didn't Mr Ulenbelt present his fantastic job plan at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u40	We continue to fight for real jobs. We continue to oppose giving away 500 million, including to employers who do not need it. Mr Kerstens knows that the Tax Plan is also full of the other problems that have been discussed in detail in that debate. If the SP comes up with a proposal for 30,000 jobs, and the Labour Party has supported a proposal that provides 7,000 jobs for the same money, then the choice has been made very simple, hasn't it? I think the people in the country understand that you then choose the SP and not the approach of the Labour Party. I will continue my speech. The Minister was always proud of the social agreement in the past period. I can see why, because if he hadn't agreed, he wouldn't have been there. At least, if we can believe Mrs Hamer, President of the ESC now. She said that if that agreement had not been reached, the cabinet would have fallen. That the Minister is proud of that, I understand. The FNV and Ton Heerts will now regret it, because they have said very bad things about this cabinet in recent weeks, especially about the people of PvdA-huize. The social agreement was a political agreement, not an agreement to deal with the problems. The Work and Security Act ensures that the rotating door for the staff turns harder, that the protection does not apply for the first two years flex, that the WW is repaired at very high cost and that the sector plans do not create jobs. That last one wasn't even supposed to happen. One thing from the social agreement has not been implemented. This concerns the agreement between bosses and unions to abolish the obligation to apply to unemployed persons aged 60 and over. That was rejected by the Minister. My question to the Minister is whether he still wants to do so. Because under the current conditions of high unemployment, applying for employment is a tragedy for these people. They don't stand a chance and are permanently rejected, which eats away at self-respect. There is a new calculation of the daily wage in the WW. Many flex workers and people working from the WW are heavily affected. A partial repair is taking place, as we have just heard, but that is a solution that will only be effective in 2017. It also means that there is a very perverse incentive in it. If you work a week in the month, that whole month is counted as working. So why would you go to work for another month? The Foundation of Labour advises another solution. I ask the Minister to accept that solution. The only argument used is: it's a mess with the UWV and that's why we can't fix it. It shouldn't be any crazier! The number of inspections carried out by the Labour Inspectorate is falling. In 2017, the number decreases by 166, but the number of abuses does not decrease. Who's gonna do the phony constructions like PostNL? Who is going to tackle discrimination in the labour market? In short, when will the slogan that many call for, namely'maintain, maintain, maintain', be fulfilled? I ask the Minister: if you do not maintain the number of enforcers, how can you maintain them? More and more people have problematic debts, either because of under-income or because of unpaid or underpaid work. I am curious to hear the Minister's opinion on this development. After years of pushing and pulling, at best, a proposal will not be presented to the Chamber until next year, but the Secretary of State should also go out of business for this form of poverty reduction and debt relief. When are they gonna come up with proposals? I'm signing a distressing situation. In a couple, a child is ill and the father or mother is so sick that he or she cannot work and can not even take care of the child, but that couple is not entitled to child care allowance. In The Hague politics that is a small thing, but in that family that is a tragedy. My request to the Minister is to do it again. He has answered questions from my colleague Siderius. That's where he's rejecting it. I therefore make the following appeal to my colleagues: if my group makes a motion on this matter, then vote in such a way that we can put an end to this poignant misery. If you've been looking at Asscher like that for the past three years, you're actually getting kind of gloomy. I'll summarize it in a few keywords. There is the inspection of Wajangers, who become hopeless of that. You see work without pay and the advance of the day laborers. Kafka seems to be in charge of the UWV. There are most strikes ever in history, under a social democratic regime. And if under your rule even social workshops have to go on strike, then you're more lost than your ideological feathers. If you bend over to Rutte when it comes to abolishing the half-wage and if you let the CPB muzzle you, you'll ruffle working young people. And I can't help it if the Secretary of State brings up kitchen gardens and the perspective is that pension equals mandatory shoveling in your vegetable garden, then you're getting gloomy. The sad thing is that I think the Minister and the Secretary of State will see it all. They'll see, but they'll look away. The minister listens, but he doesn't hear and he doesn't act. That is the main reproach that the Minister must be made. People thought: the sector plans will create jobs and the policy will create jobs. However, the horizon of unemployment is more extensive than ever. My question to the Minister is: is he going to live up to his duty of care, which the Constitution imposes on him? Or is he just gonna let it go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u41	I always have to think a little bit when Mr Ulenbelt ends up like this. He asks a series of actually sensible questions, but then he loses himself in gloom, to put it that way. I want to make him a concrete proposal. Mr Ulenbelt began by caring for the elderly. He can significantly improve their purchasing power. He can make a minus a plus. Would he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u42	That is a very good question from Mrs Vermeij. Last week we were together at a demonstration of the seniors of the FNV. The head of the FNV made a manly attempt to call for support for the Tax Plan. Mrs Vermeij also heard the reactions in the room. Because support for the Tax Plan means that higher income goes to more money than to low-income elderly people. That's why they rejected it, like my party. If something in the plus has to be: fine, then it has to be in the plus. But we are a real socialist party. Then you have to get it where it is and bring it where it isn't yet. Those 1,500 seniors of the FNV agreed with me. They disagreed with Mrs Vermeij. Well, that's the way things are. I can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u43	I also talked to a lot of people afterwards. So it wasn't all 1,500 people present. I ask Mr Ulenbelt again. If we have the opportunity to turn a minus into a plus for a single AOWer or a couple with only AOW.................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u44	That is the hand of social democracy, which is satisfied with a crumb. A socialist isn't. We have put forward proposals which will have three, four or five pluses for those with the lowest incomes. You didn't support it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u45	I find it would rather be a minus than a plus for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u46	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u47	It's called bondingung!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u48	If you want to lie the world together, you may, but in those lies Mrs Vermeij's party has been...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u49	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u50	Wait, Mr. Ulenbelt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u51	And that is not what we are doing!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u52	Then again, Mrs Vermeij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u53	Before you take such words in your mouth, and I also address the chairman, because this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u54	You're not gonna blame me, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u55	No, but I'm looking at you, Mr. Chairman. I give a graph and a table to Mr Ulenbelt. He knows that table. With the Tax Plan, people with only AOW or a small pension are making progress. That is a fact, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u56	Fine. A short response and then we go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u57	I know that little table too. We have actively disseminated this, because we had just put the net amounts in euros behind it. Mrs Vermeij also knows that little table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u58	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u59	Then the lowest incomes get €10, €20 or €200 per year, the highest modal and above that €1,400. Mrs. Vermeij, that's not fair sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u60	Mrs. Voortman. Mr. Ulenbelt, will you take your shoe with you later? You're almost leaving it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u61	I think the shoe was supposed to go to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u62	No, only if he's gonna do his best and really do something. He still has to earn it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u63	Your question, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u64	I have heard Mr Ulenbelt make various comments with which, of course, I very much agree, but I kind of missed the SP's proposals to do it differently. In my view, you should also say in such a budget: Cabinet, do this or leave it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u65	That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u66	Actually, I missed that. I'd like to hear two or three proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u67	Don't raise the AOW age. Pick up the crowds for part of the market. No job application obligation for 60-plussers. A job plan for 30,000 people in welfare. Well, that seems like a lot to do for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u68	These are mainly proposals not to do things, but I would also like to hear what the SP wants to do. I kind of miss that, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u69	We want to pay for 30,000 jobs for the long-term unemployed. This cabinet wanted to nail down 600 million and it didn't get a job. Then Mrs Voortman should embrace the SP: hey, light on the horizon, there are still socialists who make job plans that do work!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u70	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Karabulut from the SP Group. Furthermore, I am considering suspending after the involvement of the VVD Group. So we are going to listen to part two of the SP and to the VVD. Then we'll have dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u71	Mr. Chairman. My input will be on integration policy. That's the hot potato I wanted. Integration is part of employment and social affairs. There's been an incredible amount of debate. We need a new phase. We have to set the standard. According to the fresh Minister Asscher in 2013. Unfortunately, the contradictions in our society have grown since then, not least because of the sharp austerity policy. The Dutch see that their parents no longer get a place in the nursing home, are on the waiting list for years for an affordable rental house and feel that social services are under pressure. Opportunist politicians play a short-sighted role in this by increasing the contradictions and putting the blame on refugees and others, while they are often primarily responsible for this. Where does the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment stand in this regard? In 2013, he said he wants to set the standard. What is the norm for the gigantic austerity policy? Does he realize that he's really gonna have to change his mind? We have known for years that labour market discrimination is a major problem. As many studies show, Mark still has a better chance of getting a job than Muhammad. In 2015, young people with black skin have to do with everyday racism. Older people have no chance, while they are bursting with the knowledge that should be passed on to young people. Since 2013, the Minister has been referring to plans to combat labour market discrimination. We have seen a lot of plans and have read speeches, but we have seen too little action. How is the Minister going to ensure that labour market discrimination is really addressed? Or should we resort to emergency measures such as applying anonymously and using mystery guests? It is not only companies that are guilty of discrimination that need to be dealt with very hard, but also public authorities and businesses themselves need to step up their efforts on diversity policies. Instead of sometimes thinking in a state-of-the-art country, everyone would do well to keep a mirror to themselves; starting with the mainly male leaders of companies, governments, political parties, editors and other important power centres. They have an important key in their hands. Step aside and look for the other one. Don't look for any more of the same. Is the Minister prepared to oblige companies to disclose in their annual reports how they are working on diversity policy? That would be a positive incentive. According to the Minister, shouldn't the norm be that children born and raised here are just Dutch, with all the rights and duties that go with them? As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't fit Allochtonia or "from another soil." In some neighbourhoods and cities there is talk of separate living instead of living together. A one-sided population composition, high unemployment and hopelessness are a fertile ground for prejudice, exclusion, radicalisation and crime. What plans does the Minister have to counter radicalisation? Is he coming before the debate we are having next week, with more detailed plans? 80% of migrant children in large cities attend black schools. Entire neighborhoods are segregated as a result of a looking away government. People don't feel well enough. The current plans for the sale of social housing and rental liberalisation organise ghetto formation. Is the Minister willing to come up with plans for living together in the neighborhood and at school? Is he willing to support parental initiatives for mixed schools and make arrangements with municipalities and school boards to achieve mixed education? The Minister came up with plans for a declaration of participation for new Dutch. Shouldn't the people who sign this declaration be able to read the declaration themselves and the Constitution? Language is an important key to emancipation and integration. How does the Minister intend to implement this? What lessons did he learn? Last night, the minister was with Pauw. He told me about his values, laid down in a participation contract. Freedom of expression, religious freedom, freedom to choose your partner and self-determination: these are our values, universal values as far as I am concerned. At the same time, Humberto Tan's talk show at RTL was a documentary maker. Using his freedom of speech, he made a documentary about the sinterklaas tradition. In it it emerged that it is good that traditions go along with their time. This man is threatened with death. I find that very sad. Also Humberto Tan got racist crap on social media. In what way will the Minister reach the Dutch who commit such acts with his declaration of participation? How will the Minister combat this form of hatred and racism? The Minister regularly calls for a report, but what happens with this? What has come out of the conversations he has had with Facebook and Twitter? I have to hand it to the Minister, he is excellent at conveying our values. He doesn't get out of the way of difficult discussions. I would like to congratulate him on that. In my view, however, the Minister would only become credible if he consistently promoted and applied these values. That is why I would like to offer this declaration of credibility to the Minister for signature and return to the House of Representatives. The Minister himself may begin to take one of our important values, self-determination, as a starting point for his integration policy. Is the Minister prepared to stop making agreements on the religion and integration of Dutch people with the governments of Turkey and Morocco and with the organisations that present themselves as the voice of these foreign powers in the Netherlands? President Erdogan and the King of Morocco, as the Minister may know, do not take it so closely with human rights, let alone with freedom of expression and self-determination. Why should the Minister take them as a starting point for the policy of integrating Turkish and Moroccan Dutch people? Dutch people with an Islamic background are, like all other Dutch people, very well able to take their future into their own hands. So treat them as equals. Therefore, do not take the nationalist and religious interests of governments of countries of origin or the group as the starting point for integration policy, but the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u72	So much for the first-term contribution of the SP. Then we will listen to both speakers of the VVD. The first contribution is from Mr Anne Mulder. He has a speaking time of 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u73	Mr. Chairman. Recently I received the following e-mail: Dear Mr Mulder, I would like to tell you the following about my personal situation. After training, I have worked since I was 10 years old and have worked to become a position at the HBO-plus level. After 40 years of hard work I was able to buy a house, but because I'm in the WW now, I had to sell my house and ended up in a rental house. This way, I get e-mails from people who are unemployed more often. They e-mail me and ask me what I'm gonna do. Sometimes I ask them to come to the room. That's how I had a gentleman a while back who took his wife. He told his story and I walked through the Chamber with them for two hours. The next day, my employee received a phone call that they were glad that the man could give his story to me, because at home the walls came at him. Unemployment is a tragedy. It is not just about income decline, but also about self-esteem, self-confidence, collegiality and pleasure. Long-term unemployment affects people, their income, uncertainty, stress and also their families. Sometimes they have to sell their house. I also get emails from entrepreneurs, such as this: Mr Mulder, I have a painting company of almost 106 years old, with about 20 permanent employees. So we already have some entrepreneurial experience. In recent years, however, I have been afraid to employ people on a permanent basis. The risk of paying the existing two-year scheme in case of illness is too high. In the past, this has almost cost us our heads. Last year I visited Fred Moolenaar in Voorhout, an entrepreneur in bulbs. His company has been doing that for 1850 years and he's proud of that. He exports to 80 countries in the world. Oh, no, since 1850.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u74	I see. Everyone's gonna pay attention, you'll notice. They hang on your lips. They're all mathing right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u75	Since 1850 and he exports to more than 80 countries. So it's really a multinational. In his company you can also see posters that the bulbs go with KLM devices from the fifties. When I spoke to him, we also came to talk about labour law. He said: do you know, Mr Mulder, that a temporary worker can report ill until 28 days after the end of his contract, which means that an employer has to pay the cost of illness and then of incapacity for work for 12 years? He said: Mr Mulder, that you ask an entrepreneur to sprint 100 meters is up to that point, but now the government makes work and security with the Law and the rules for seasonal work a hurdle in which a hurdle is added again and again; that ends once again. I asked him the other day how he was doing. He emailed back that he had now moved work to England in order to avoid the law, or... to maintain the much-needed flexibility. It is a crying cry that it does not see the whole sector lose its strength and competitiveness, and that flex workers lose the solidity that they have. I find that frustrating. It is frustrating that on the one hand I speak to people who want to work and on the other hand I meet entrepreneurs who say they do have a job but they do not dare offer it. The big question is: how do we make the fixed contract more attractive? In the budget of these rulers we see that they have great ambitions. It's got nice sentences in it. For example, the budget contains the following. "For us, there are still plenty of opportunities for a society that offers people more well-being and prosperity, but that requires us to continue to think about the major issues. What increases the chances of a job for everyone? How do we ensure an inclusive society, without dividing lines according to origin or education? What do robotisation and technological development mean for the workplace? How do we transfer solidarity and activation of social security to future generations? Now is the time to build a better future with regained perspective, for us and the generations after us." These are fine words and the VVD shares the intentions of these rulers, but the question is what increases the chances of work for everyone. It is precisely because it concerns people that my group keeps an eye on the figures and facts. The VVD wants to know how this minister's policy works, because the signals are not good. For the first time in years, less than 5 million people have a permanent job, on a workforce of 8.9 million people. The economy is attracting, but job growth is lagging behind. Long-term unemployment among older people has increased. As a result, the burden of unemployment lies with a small group of people whose average duration of unemployment is increasing. This group does not know how to obtain a contract of employment. This group also includes people at the bottom of the labour market. Thus there is a danger of a division. How do we get these people to work? What are these leaders going to do to ensure that as many additional jobs as possible are created? The causes of often long-term unemployment, particularly among vulnerable groups, are clear. The Dutch labour market is too rigid and labour is too expensive. We are in fifth place of the World Economic Forum, but we score poorly on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u76	I listened very carefully to Mr Mulder and I thought I would hear the spokesperson of the PVV. Mr. Mulders is doing a Wildersje, it seems. He reads e-mails from citizens, from complaining entrepreneurs to whom he speaks. I thought I was dealing with the spokesman of an opposition party. Has Mr Mulder been in the opposition benches for perhaps three years to ask this Minister and this Secretary of State what they are going to do with this, or is he going to wonder what his own party has done and why it has failed? I hardly ever compliment Mr Wilders, but the good thing is that he always makes concrete proposals. These are often short motions, but they concern concrete proposals. Do we get those from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u77	That's a lot of questions at the same time. I am just glad that I can read out e-mails, because a representative of the people must do a few things in my view. You need to know what's going on in this country, and you need to see how the laws and regulations we make here work out. With the information from practice you then return to see if those laws are good or not. So I think it's excellent that I'm doing this... Well, I'm complimenting myself now, but I think this is the work of a people's representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u78	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u79	We look at what's going on in The Hague, we go into the country and we listen. The point is that you're not just standing aside and an echo of what's going on. You must also say what needs to be done and you must dare to take unpopular measures. I will come up with the measures that I have been asked to take and with the answer to the question of what the VVD wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u80	Everyone gets e-mails. Everyone here listens to the citizen. The VVD isn't special about that. The VVD is the largest party and the largest party in the cabinet, with ministers, secretaries of state and the prime minister. After three years of policy, I hear you talk about frustration and disappointment. It's about your own policy! You are jointly responsible for the policy. You are jointly responsible for the complaint of this entrepreneur. We want to hear those sounds, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u81	The VVD is proud that it is responsible for the policy. What do you have to do to get successful policies? If you want the economy to grow, you must first ensure that public finances are in order. That's what happened. Since last week, the Dutch State has returned its triple A rating. So that's in order. If you don't have public finances in order, people are insecure. They believe that a budget deficit is nothing but a deferred tax increase or a reduction. So you need to get these finances in order. This will attract investment and increase consumer confidence. Then there will be job growth. The first three cases are in order. Now we're gonna have that job growth. We are concerned that we are now going to benefit from economic growth and turn it into jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u82	Mr Mulder is proud to be able to read this out of e-mails. Now we all read newspapers. Yesterday morning, when De Telegraaf came in, I think that this led to some shuddering among many colleagues, because the VVD gave this vice-premier an incompetence. Last night, the Deputy Prime Minister in Pauw indicated that Halbe Zijlstra nuanced that: an inadequate one was too harsh. On social media I just see all the reports that Halbe Zijlstra says it is an inadequate one. I hear Mr Mulder here holding a rather ambitious story about the future and saying what we need to do to take advantage of it. But what about it? Is it an inadequate one, or is the VVD proud of the policy pursued?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u83	The VVD is proud of its policies. We have to turn that into jobs. That is why I said that yesterday in De Telegraaf and we are going to be more behind the Minister. It is simply not enough now, especially the high level of unemployment. That's what I said yesterday, and I'm going to talk about it now. Soon we will be calling on the Minister to do so and we will make proposals to ensure that unemployment is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u84	So we are not going to see in this debate what we have seen in all these previous debates? With the Work and Security Act and the issue of seasonal work, the VVD had tough language in advance, but in the debate: nothing. On the Saturday for the treatment of the Wet approach fakes constructions there was very tough language to read at NU.nl, but in the debate: nothing. Will the VVD now speak tough language again in the newspaper and at the end of the debate say: Minister, well done? Or is she going to take action at some point and not just get tough in the newspaper beforehand, but also bring concrete proposals to the debate to adjust to the points where things are not going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u85	To answer Mr Heerma's questions, I actually have to keep my story. So that's what I want to do now, because that's what he can make up his mind whether I do what he asks or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u86	If that's your answer, that's your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u87	This is indeed beginning to look very much like the previous situations: Mr Mulder is always barking in the newspaper but does not bite through in the debates in the Chamber. It's two-and-a-half. Either he thinks the minister's doing well or he doesn't. If you give this minister an incompetence, Mr Mulder has said so, he must be just a guy today and repeat it. Or has he indeed been flagged back by his group chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u88	The question is what "flagged back" is. I just repeated what I said in De Telegraaf. I therefore share our position on behalf of a whole group of 40 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u89	That's not an answer for the third time. The main thing is that Mr Mulder gave Minister Asscher an incompetence. Perhaps they said behind the VVD: Mr Mulder, you checked the Minister's test a little too closely. But be honest about that. It's two-and-a-half. Whether it is, as it is now in the media, where the VVD says that this minister has not delivered enough for the fight against unemployment, modernisation and renewal. Or Mr Mulder is doing the trick that the VVD has done before: barking outside this room and standing behind the minister like a very good puppy. What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u90	I'll leave the words of D66 for D66. I said what I said in the paper. I am concerned about that. Everyone in the Chamber should be concerned about getting more jobs. That's why I'm behind the Minister. That is the purpose of this debate and of my input: jobs and jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u91	We all want jobs and jobs, but the VVD has said here and in the newspaper that the Minister's policy is inadequate. Now several groups in the VVD want to know what needs to be done in concrete terms so that next year's policy is a sufficient one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u92	I'm gonna put it that way. We are behind the Minister so that it will be a sufficient one, because there is still a lot of room for that. I will make a few suggestions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u93	I'm very curious about that. I'm also curious if the VVD can indicate when it's enough. At what point does the VVD say: this is not enough, now you are definitely not going to pass?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u94	My speech is about what we have to do. I can anticipate that, but I can better...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u95	You're making it exciting for us. Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u96	I also had teachers and they gave me different grades, but then I understood exactly who I had worked with and who I didn't with, even with the same teacher. However, Mr Mulder becomes a magic student or rather a magic teacher. At first, it was an "F." This morning, he says it's a 6. Zijlstra first says "no, no insufficient" and now Zijlstra says "not enough." Teacher Mulder, tell me. What's the figure now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u97	We're in a situation where some success needs to be made, solid strokes, to do it right. The calls and statements of the VVD are aimed at achieving this, ensuring that we take advantage of economic growth and increasing employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u98	So it's really nothing. It's some kind of noncommittal study advice for the minister. But that's not what you said in the paper. You've been handing out numbers. This morning you even said: it's a 6. Before that, you were talking about an "failure." You also said this morning that you are not going to go with the six. Teacher Mulder, do we really have to listen to your lessons because it's all going to be very unbelievable what you're doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u99	I repeat what I have just said: something must be done, we must take firm steps. All our statements are aimed at encouraging the Minister to do so. That is what we are proposing ourselves. 'Cause it's not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u100	The difference between a school and politics is that if you get an "F" in school, you stay in jail, and if you get an "F" in politics, you have to leave. I would therefore like to ask Mr Mulder the following question. Is his qualification that this minister is getting an incompetence or is his qualification that the Minister's policy is getting an incompetence? State law still makes a difference to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u101	If you get an F, you have to leave: yes, with the final report. As far as the VVD is concerned, we're not there yet. The figures are not good now, and we need to do something about that. So this is an interim report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u102	With all due respect to the answer, that is not an answer to my question. Does the VVD Group classify Minister Asscher's policy as insufficient, or does the VVD Group also qualify Minister Asscher as insufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u103	No, we are talking about policies to ensure that employment is increased. Minister Asscher is a good minister when it comes to making laws. He knows how to do that, but he also has to deliver the results, their effects. That's what we're waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u104	We're taking advantage of the news. It's been coming out one after the other since Thursday. It's really like Annie M.G.'s song. Schmidt: I don't want it, I don't want it, I don't want it anymore. Then the Minister gets an inadequate one, on the same day an almost sufficient one and the next day an adequate one. And today he has good policies, he is a good minister but we want more jobs. I can tell you that's what this whole room wants. So, Mr Mulder, why didn't you say that in Thursday's newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u105	I said what I said. Mrs Vermeij says the policy is good. I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u106	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u107	I'm not saying that. The minister makes laws, but the question is what their effects are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u108	You have literally said that you are proud of the policy. Read the Acts: I am proud of the policy. But I didn't get to read that in the paper on Thursday. It could have saved us a lot of phone calls and a lot of reactions which, by the way, didn't matter anymore because you were like a petulant boy again with the following "I don't want it, I don't want it." However, I hear very clearly today: a good minister, I am proud of the policy but we want more employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u109	Well, then you've been listening wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u110	If that was your answer, I suggest you continue. Then later we can see if there is any need for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u111	This answer does reflect the essence of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u112	Yes, but we are going to listen to Mr Mulder again. Soon you'll be able to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u113	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to conclude at all. I just want to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u114	Soon you'll be able to conclude and not now. We are going to listen again to Mr Mulder who continues his speech. You've already had your turn in this little interruption round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u115	I mentioned the responsibility for payment of wages in the event of illness, disability and reintegration, which was deposited with the employer. He's reluctant to offer a permanent contract. He's in charge of gate guarding and re-integrating instead of entrepreneurship. The collective agreements reinforce this with the so-called super-legal additions and arrangements. The Minister recognizes that, too. It's in the Millions Note, page 52. It literally states that employers' and employees' organisations can play a positive role "in improving the position of vulnerable groups, for example by refraining from agreements in collective agreements on over-statutory pay in case of illness or age-related arrangements in collective agreements." The analysis that there is a problem is therefore shared. So what do we do? What's left doing? What does the Minister do? The Minister has a decent labour market in mind, but what are his plans for jobs? At least on the left, including D66, the Minister is not helping in his search for permanent jobs. There is a lot of attention to things that sound sympathetic, such as a substantial increase in the statutory minimum wage, but which leads to additional unemployment among young people. A D66 motion led to fewer jobs for young people. Extra parental leave makes this permanent job even less attractive to employers. The PvdA has proposed a four-day working week with salary retention. It all sounds nice, but added together the permanent job becomes even more unattractive. It does not lead to more, but rather less permanent jobs. These plans are job shredders. So the Minister is not being helped by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u116	I get it: in order to divert attention, Mr Mulder is now starting to put other parties on the spot. In any case, Mr Mulder will receive an A on his turn report today. I have a very specific question. Is he now putting the Minister under curatel, saying that the Minister should finally have a discussion with the polder about collective agreements and payments, or is he really just under curatel himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u117	We call on the Minister to take action to reduce unemployment. I do. Mr Van Weyenberg is trying to put words in my mouth. That's all fine. For the time being, he wants to increase youth pay, leading to additional unemployment among young people. He does not contribute much to the fight against unemployment, more strongly: he knows how to increase it. In addition, his party is also opposed to the Tax Plan, which should create 35,000 jobs. They might not get through D66. D66's contribution to reducing unemployment is therefore not even zero, but negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u118	I get it: this is a bit of a masquerade by Mr Mulder for his somewhat painful performance just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u119	These are just facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u120	I'm just repeating my question. Every time plans were made in the Chamber to modernise collective agreements, a party voted against them. Do you know which party that was? That was the VVD. You had a very big mouth in the media, but when it came to it, you would go along with the Minister of Social Affairs all the time. Have you come to your senses very late, or are you finally going to deliver on all these big words? Are you going to table motions later, at least that is what D66 is doing to modernise collective agreements and make the permanent job more attractive, or is this, like your contribution over the last few days, kettle music?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u121	I would just like to compliment Mr Van Weyenberg, because two years ago my party tabled a motion with his party to look at the universally binding declaration and to do something about it. I'll be right back to talk about that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u122	Mr Mulder says that the Minister is not enterprising in the case of sickness pay. That's right. The minister has been a teacher and has often taught. He's from talking and the smooth talk and he's not much of the action, but Mr Mulder knew that. I'll put my question in VVD terms. If an entrepreneur has credit with a bank and is not enterprising enough and if the bank gives him an insufficient credit, the bank places him under special management. Are you prepared to have this minister placed under special management in order to allow him to do his job in the last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u123	The VVD is about taking action. I'm working on it. How a bank works, I leave it to Mr Öztürk. All the comments made by my group and my party are aimed at additional jobs, at actions by the cabinet to ensure that the problem of unemployment is resolved. I have just outlined what it does to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u124	If, after three years and three budgets, the VVD is failing, with what hope does your group give this minister another year to make real work of the present?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u125	In fact, this question has already been put to me in eight ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u126	Then you continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u127	The answer is still: we want this minister to take more action, because his results are too weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u128	We're listening to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u129	Entrepreneurs say they have too much responsibility and need to invest too much money and time in solid forces. They feel too much like a chief of personnel. We've got to get the balance back. We want to give more people the choice of a permanent job. We want a balance between the rights of an employee and the obligations of an employer. The VVD welcomes the tax reduction of 5 billion, because it makes work pay, more people can get to work. But there's more to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u130	Before there's another interruption, I'd like you to pursue your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u131	Unfortunately, this minister is still taking too few measures to make fixed contracts more attractive and to reduce the rise in long-term unemployment. The VVD wants the cabinet in particular to make the permanent contract attractive to employers again. The cabinet must therefore work with the Roemer/Zijlstra motion on pay-as-you-go payment in the event of illness, so that employers can be more attractive to hire people. We look forward to this motion being carried out by the cabinet. That is an important motion, and it is important that the cabinet delivers on it. But the collective agreements, I told you, do it again. They make the permanent contract even more unattractive for entrepreneurs, through super-statutory benefits in the event of illness and incapacity for work. Or an extra allowance in the event of dismissal. A canton judge's formula was included in the collective agreements. We had great expectations of a motion, tabled two years ago with D66, to investigate the universally binding declaration of collective agreements, which apply to an entire sector. We had expectations when the cabinet quoted in the Millions Note that just now pointed out the disadvantages of super-statutory regulations. Three weeks ago, the Minister came to his conclusion. Unfortunately, the shoe remained empty. He's going to ask the social partners nicely what to do about all these super-statutory additions. There's no point. Already in 2004, the cabinet asked for this. The social partners, the trade unions and the employers' organizations do not like it. We must not leave the social partners alone because of the rest of the labour market. That's what the Minister does. We also attach great importance to this work rest, as the Minister often says, but it has a price. Too high a price, because this issue is too important to leave to the social partners. They don't do enough. The question is: does the Minister choose to rest in the polder or for jobs and for tailor-made work in collective agreements? For collective bargaining is based on a uniform employee; often there is a fistful collective agreement, with a standard package for everyone. One size fits all, emphasising the wishes of a non-representative constituency of which only one in six people is a member, especially the elderly. That's what you see in the collective agreements. You see a lot of senior days there. My question to the Minister is: now find ways to get more customized work, so that employees get working conditions at level. Maybe a single employee doesn't want to be free for Christmas, he wants to work and someone else does. But these employees are often not asked for, because they are not members of a union. Therefore, make more room for customization in collective agreements. I made proposals for that a few weeks ago. Give more space to works councils. The minister didn't know how quickly he had to distance himself from it. That may be so, but come up with alternatives to how to make that customization possible, for example by giving more room for so-called exceptions, for dispensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u132	Mr Mulder rightly said that a number of collective agreements should be more modern and that the Minister should be much more on top of them. The cabinet has agreed to make any additional arrangements in the WW, which actually undo the Work and Security Act, generally binding. Mr Mulder is against such additions. He does not wish to make them universally binding. Can I conclude from this that the VVD considers that the Minister should not declare additions to be universally binding in the context of the third year of WW and that the VVD will support the motion of D66, which states this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u133	I was talking about super-statutory supplements to illness and disability. In the case of disease, the additional burden on companies is over three billion. That's gotta be done. If you do something about that, the financial risks for companies will fall. That's what my question is about. Can the Minister do something about that? That's what gets in the way of companies. Mr Van Weyenberg is right. If I'm honest, I have to admit that the VVD would never repair the WW, because that leads to a higher WW premium of €250 per employee, making the fixed contract unattractive again. We signed the Social Agreement as a VVD. So we are not going to get there, but we are asking the Minister to do something about these other super-statutory additions in the area of sickness and disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u134	I regret that, because the VVD therefore supports measures that cost jobs and that reduce the purchasing power of workers. That is disappointing, but Mr Mulder has always talked about this inadequate and the interim report. If he has an incompetence on his interim report, you tell a student that he has to do a number of things differently, because otherwise he never gets an incompetence. Mr Mulder just made a point about these additions, about collective agreements. Are these tough conditions on the basis of which the VVD allows this minister to move to the next class of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u135	We await the Minister's response and we await the impact of the policy. There is talk of a sufficient and an insufficient, but it is a question of additional measures. We all see that things are not going well enough. It's gotta be a lot better. This brings me to the unemployment of the elderly. It's extremely persistent, frustratingly persistent. We spoke about it recently in the Chamber. The introductions were sad, because people took their emotions to the Chamber. They asked us for help. We have also discussed with experts how to tackle unemployment among older people. We have had many suggestions, for example to address the wrong image of the elderly. In particular, there is a need for a cultural change for employers. A number of years ago, employers were mainly concerned with the early retirement of people. We now need a cultural change, which will make people more employable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u136	I note that you have now resumed your speech. That's okay. Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u137	Back to the block on collective agreements. Mr Mulder outlined an image of employers sighing under the yoke of collective agreements that are far too good for employees. These collective agreements have been established by employers' and employees' parties, haven't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u138	That's right. Collective agreements have been established by those parties. So they're determined by people at work. It's nice if you have good terms of employment when you work, but if you don't have a job, you're not hired on the basis of those terms of employment, because you're too expensive. Then an employer doesn't want to take any chances with you. It is good that there are collective agreements, but the downside is that people who are unemployed get to work less quickly because it is unattractive for an employer to offer them a permanent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u139	Mr Mulder made it appear that these collective agreements are only made by those terrible trade unions, whereas they are also made by employers' organisations. A while ago, during an extensive hearing in the Chamber, those employers' organisations indicated that collective agreements should not be affected. They said: let us now see how we can make collective agreements more innovative, how we can achieve more tailor-made work. Doesn't it make much more sense to give that space to employers and employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u140	Sure. We are not opposed to collective agreements, but if there are provisions in it that make people more difficult to get to work, then the cabinet says that in the Millions Note too, then you have to do something about it. This does not apply to collective agreements as a whole, but to provisions which prevent this from happening. We have that responsibility. The Minister also has this responsibility, for he declares collective agreements generally binding. He also has the instrument to do something about it. My group calls on the Minister to use this instrument, or not, but not to make such provisions generally binding, precisely for the reasons outlined by the cabinet itself in the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u141	I am very curious to know who Mr Mulder is representing now. He seems to me like a donquixote fighting the polder or a polder jihadist. Employers and employees want collective agreements. They also ask the Minister to declare them universally binding. They do that for good reason. And I think the VVD, with D66, is the only one who wants to get rid of these collective agreements. I would say, Mr Mulder, cut the union basing, because the employers are just as close to concluding the agreements as you are. That club of yours has been trying for 30, 40 years. It never worked. So stop fighting the windmill, Mr. Mulder. It would give you such a much better grade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u142	It is a pity that Mr Ulenbelt is making a caricature of the VVD's position, as if we were against collective agreements. It concerns a number of provisions which make it difficult for the unemployed, for whom I stand, to get to work. Those provisions need to be dealt with. This has been recognised by the cabinet for years. The Minister writes it himself. So we're gonna have to do something about that. We shouldn't talk about that, because we've been doing that for a long time. We really have to say: we are not going to do that anymore, these super-statutory additions. If people who work have less rights, people who don't work can get to work easier. That's the point. And that is actually very much in solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u143	The monkey is now coming out of the sleeve: less rights for workers. You want to achieve this by undermining the collective agreement, by not declaring it universally binding. You're worse than a polderjihadist. You are violating the right to free negotiations laid down in international treaties. I know you want to get rid of that, too. Well, you're just passing out the numbers, so let's do it. For this crazy story you get a 3. You can get a 6 in the future if you stop this anti-union and anti-employer talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u144	It's mostly words. 'Polderjihadist', I leave it all with Mr Ulenbelt. I am standing here making proposals that will increase opportunities for people who are unemployed. If he wants to portray me as a donquixote, he can do his thing, but I am making concrete proposals here to help those people I have just mentioned. That's what this is about. The words of Mr Ulenbelt must above all be spoken as he pleases. It does not help to combat unemployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u145	To my surprise I hear the VVD now suddenly pleading for a cultural change when it comes to the image of the elderly. I have been advocating this for three years now. That is why I have also proposed the setting up of an elder ambassador. Almost the entire room was for that, but the VVD wasn't. Can Mr Mulder explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u146	That's right. I spoke to Mr Krol about it. We have considered whether or not to support the motion. It is precisely if you create an ambassador for or a figurehead of a particular group that it could be stigmatizing again. Then people think, "Why does it take something for that group?" On the other hand, I am honest: now that he or she is going to be appointed, we need to see what we can do about that cultural change. In fact, the round table made it very clear that there should be a cultural change. We did not support the motion, but now that it has been adopted, we are going to fully assist in its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u147	I'm glad. I am glad that the Labour Party has now changed that position and I am now counting on the full cooperation of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u148	Mr Krol can count on the VVD. With Mr Krol I stay with the elderly...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u149	I note that Mr Mulder not only gives the Minister and the policy a sufficient amount, but also the collective agreement and the trade union. While we are on this subject, I would ask Mr Mulder if he is occasionally looking into the recently concluded collective agreements. Does he know what it says about super-statutory additions or agreements about them? Does he know what is in the collective agreement recently concluded by the Bijenkorf, what is in the collective agreement recently concluded by hospitals and what is in the collective agreement recently concluded by universities on permanent jobs? Is Mr Mulder aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u150	I don't know all the collective agreements by heart. I do remember the last report from the Minister a few weeks ago. Then you just see that amount of over 3 billion euros pop up again, cost of pay-through in case of illness. I know the add-on. So that's how I know collective agreements. I see what happens every once in a while. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u151	Since Mr Mulder is still handing out enough money, it is a cheerful evening going on. I would like to point out that good agreements are being made, for example on extra payment on Sundays in exchange for higher wages for young people and on hiring permanent staff at the university. All these flex contracts in the scientific world we looked forward to. In the hospitals good agreements have been made about more education throughout life. It is all good things that Mr Mulder cannot oppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u152	But are you okay and fast enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u153	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u154	No, exactly. And that's too bad, because people are getting hurt now. That is why my group calls on this minister not to wait for that polder, not to wait until the polder is out. I am referring, for example, to the phasing out of senior days, which I will also say about. Construction had 63 days off when you're over 60. Well, I'd appreciate it if you were, but if you're unemployed, that's hardly gonna get you a job. How long does it take the construction industry to cut that down? Seventeen years! You're at least four cabinet periods away. So that's not fast enough. The problem is so great that we therefore want action from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u155	I see that Mr Kerstens wishes to interrupt, but we have just had someone from the same group on the interrupting microphone. That's not how we're gonna do it. Mr Mulder is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u156	I was talking about the cultural change. The CPB also gives an opinion on government policy. The CPB writes literally: "The high long-term unemployment among older people is not a cyclical problem but a structural problem. There was an increase before the start of the crisis. The current policy package, which is largely focused on lower wage costs, is not effective enough to help older unemployed people get back into employment. More fundamental revisions, such as unemployment benefits which fall with the duration of unemployment, protection against dismissals that depend less on the length of the employment contract, and less age-related arrangements in collective agreements, are necessary in order to improve the position of older unemployed in a sustainable way." The Central Planning Office speaks of "insufficient effectiveness." Now that the analysis is clear, what are we going to do? I realize they're unpopular measures. A while ago I said on the radio: "To get more elderly people to work, you have to do something about the senior days." It doesn't make you popular. I got 854 negative reactions. Yesterday we received a letter containing measures which the Minister intends to take to combat unemployment among the elderly. This is also about the cultural change. However, the measures required by the Central Planning Office leave the Minister to the polder, but they are not taken there. More than half of collective agreements still contain so-called "recessive measures." I told you, it takes 17 years for the construction industry to cut them down. Does the Minister want to leave the unions alone, or does he want to help older people get to work? The Work and Security Act has already been mentioned. It started this year. I'm gonna go into some parts of that law. 'Cause that's gonna be okay? We have already heard that in the recreation sector seasonal workers and entrepreneurs are dissatisfied, for example at campsites. Last Friday morning RTL News showed that both a camping owner and the man who has been doing seasonal work with him for eight years is dissatisfied with this law. They're forced to say goodbye to each other. Then something's wrong. Yes, is it said, trade unions are allowed, again in this collective agreement, to make sector-specific agreements to solve the problem? In the recreational sector, that was not possible. What does the Minister think of this? If both the employer and the employee are dissatisfied, can the Minister not accept that it remains so? I can imagine the Minister for Employment then wanting to intervene. I've also spoken to people from the maintenance sector. So these are the men and women who provide insulation and painting. I asked, "How does that law work out for you?" Did you come out with the unions? They say, "No, I can't." They say, "Do you know what we've done?" We have set up our own temporary agency for flexible labour, because it is not working. They say: in fact, we are all dissatisfied, so both the entrepreneurs and the workers. Since we didn't get out with the unions, we have to do it through this law now. In just Dutch, this has a loss-loss situation. Is this what the Minister really wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u157	I suspect that Mr Mulder has just missed out twice. He was talking about the unions making agreements. My first question to Mr Mulder is whether that is true. The second question is whether Mr Mulder knows what agreements LTO and trade unions have recently made, i.e. employers and workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u158	Sure. There are two parties at the table. I'm coming to LTO. That organisation is now mentioned. Last week it came out that LTO, the FNV and the CNV have reached an agreement. I called the bollenhandel Fred Moolenaar right after that; I already called him. Fred said, "I have "a little" to this new collective agreement. Because that appointment applies to some function scales, namely function scale b: basic barn worker. However, I also have people who work with a forklift truck and their hands. This agreement does not apply to them. Yet they are also seasonal workers. He said that his union had agreed to these collective agreements because they were based on: better something than nothing. He said, however, this is far from ideal. I told you, he'd already moved part of his production to England. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I heard that example of the collective agreement, but I would like the Minister to be included in this LTO collective agreement. This collective agreement may be nice, but does it apply to all seasonal workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u159	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u160	I asked Anthos, the interbranch association of flower bulb traders, who had been in the preparatory talks with LTO: how can this be possible? I asked the people there: why don't you make those appointments for everyone? This sounds like half a solution. They had no idea. Apparently there's something going on and the unions are afraid of something. I wonder what that is, and I ask the Minister to dive into it. This just takes a job. The work is literally being moved abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u161	I assume that Mr Mulder also informed that entrepreneur, with whom he apparently has frequent contact and on whom he almost bases his entire contribution, that he could then report to his representative LTO. After all, that organization represents him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u162	I did!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u163	Okay. Okay. Okay. Well, then there's something wrong with the employers' line, too, but an appointment has been made. It's possible. The Minister can use that as well. At least there is room in the Work and Security Act to make those additional agreements. One of them is extremely interesting, because after four years you could have a permanent contract. Then you spread it all over the year and from that old practice of nine months' work and three months' WW, where the three months WW actually covered an entrepreneurial risk, we have a new appointment on the table. Does Mr Mulder not find it very interesting, as the WW was never meant to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u164	I find it very interesting, but... Mrs Vermeij's first question is: what about LTO Nederland? I asked: isn't it strange that there is work, but that it isn't offered? "Well, the unions don't want to and we have thought: better than nothing, otherwise we have to say goodbye to everyone or move production." That's the trade-off. I see that Mrs Vermeij shakes her head, but let us ask the Minister to dive in and see what exactly is going on so that we can know and keep the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u165	The debate on the effects of seasonal work has been going on for about three quarters of a year. Like my colleague from D66, I have always said about seasonal work: this law has disastrous consequences, for example in agriculture and horticulture. The VVD has also said some tough things about this in previous debates, including in the media around it, but when things came to an end, the actions did not come into the debate. The VVD Group also spoke very harshly at RTL News at the end of last week about what this law does in seasonal work, but now Mr Mulder says: I ask the Minister to dive into it again. I would like to invite the VVD Group to make this more concrete. What does that mean? What kind of time limit does the minister get for that? Because if he dives in long enough, then the problem will be solved by itself, because then those seasonal workers simply are no longer there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u166	Mr Heerma is ahead of my speech, because I am about to ask the Minister. But we've been brought together to amend this law. Then it is about the retroactive effect of the transition fee, as it is called neatly. We have drawn attention to this on a number of occasions. The Minister saw that, too. When he saw that the law had counterproductive effects, he was willing to amend it. So we are not just standing here saying something. If there really is a problem and we are able to put it down here, then this Minister looks at it well and reasonably and he says: there is a problem, I will solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u167	I am going to try again: in agriculture and horticulture a solution seems to have been found, but the recreation sector has indicated that it was almost out, but that the negotiators were whistled back. There was no solution. Mr Mulder just outlined that this is a major problem. There was no doubt about that: this is a big problem. Only his question "Minister, dive in again" is too vague for me. At what time should there be a result, because otherwise the VVD group will not only bark but also bite? Because we cannot continue to push this problem forward. Otherwise we will have a solution in agriculture and horticulture, but not in sport, not in education and not in recreation. Then the VVD stands there and looks at it. What is the actual deadline for action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u168	I come to Mr Heerma's question. He calls all the education. That is where problems arise with this law. We have asked questions about this. They were answered yesterday. To questions about school community Kerobei in Venlo, Limburg, the Minister replied: this can be solved. He answered these questions. We give that back to this school and ask: is it true what the Minister says, can you get out of your way with this? Mr Heerma also mentioned the sports sector. Last week his colleague Bruins Slot drew attention to this in the budget treatment of Health, Welfare and Sport. Also soccer trainers were all satisfied. They worked for nine months, but in the summer when the clubhouse was closed and the competitions stalled, they didn't have a job. Then they went back to work. Everyone was always happy about that. But sports clubs can't do that anymore. For this, too, I ask the Minister: how about this? What solutions are possible? Does he want to get into that? This applies to all sectors I mention. I want the Minister to dig in there and actively identify the sectors involved in seasonal work, the bottlenecks they face and whether they are being resolved. And if that doesn't work, the minister has to make sure they're resolved. I want him to take an active look at these sectors and propose the solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u169	But of course Mr Heerma had a point. We know where the problems are, and they go beyond seasonal work: in education, in the maintenance sector, where the unions have been flagged back by the FNV headquarters, in the recreation sector, where the negotiators have been flagged back by the FNV, and in sport. So the question to the Minister is not to come up with another list. The question must be how we will resolve this as soon as possible. I therefore repeat Mr Heerma's question. How is Mr Mulder going to ensure that this solution is found? Surely it cannot be that after times of warning Mr Mulder, after times of concern Mr Mulder was even negative about the law today does not go beyond calling on the Minister to talk in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u170	We call on the Minister to take stock, find out where the bottlenecks are and solve them. As far as we're concerned, he can change the law for that. We want that review in three months' time. In March, we want to know how the law works for these sectors and whether it works. And if the law doesn't work, we have a debate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u171	So we're gonna wait another three months. In the maintenance sector, all those seasonal workers will lose their jobs completely. They're not gonna be in service anymore. What I do not understand is that Mr Mulder is right to say such big words, because I share his concern and at the same time want to pass the whole winter season. He doesn't want the minister to give a picture of what's going on for three months. That's not an act of the VVD, is it? I thought it was something to do with "tack"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u172	I believe that we are calling on the Minister to address this issue and report on it in three months' time. If we do not think that is enough, then we can look at what we can do with it. We call on this minister to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u173	There are no seasonal workers in education. Schools know very well how many students they will have in the coming year and therefore how many teachers they will need. There is a very different problem here, namely the financing of education. Isn't the problem with the Work and Security Act especially that employers now say: after two temporary contracts I am stuck with an employee and should I give him a permanent contract? This means that people are no longer put out after three, but after two temporary contracts. Would the VVD feel like extending that second contract so that people are at least longer at work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u174	I'll be on that subject in a minute. I'm gonna get to the firing right first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u175	My question is specifically about the Work and Security Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u176	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u177	Okay, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u178	Has the right of dismissal been relaxed or tightened up? The picture among some was that the Work and Security Act would make the right of dismissal more flexible. However, the Minister has made it clear that this is not the case. In the Financial Daily of 27 June, he said: "In a sense, dismissal is becoming more difficult, because there is tighter supervision of file formation. The employer must show much better that his employee has not been working properly for a long time. A company that so far did not have a good record could still buy this off from the canton court." Last Friday's Minister's letter on the Work and Security Act states: "The change in the right of dismissal may result in the new law rejecting a request for dissolution by the canton court where it would have been allocated under the old law." You can say that's also the purpose of the law. It promotes good employership, you can't fire someone less quickly, you have to build up a good file. But could you ask a small company around the corner to file a good file on his people? If even a large organisation, a great defender and expert of this law, has difficulty applying this law to its own employees, namely the FNV, how about a small company whose core business is not labour law but enterprising? This threatens to make the fixed contract even more unattractive for employers, and they offer it even less quickly. That's not the effect this minister is aiming for, is it? We would like to receive a response to that. The Work and Security Act has just entered into force. We received a letter about the first image and an evaluation. As far as the VVD is concerned, we will be discussing this evaluation separately. I have three more questions. In last Saturday's FD, columnist Mathijs Bouman quoted from the Twente daily Tubantia. It was a cashier who didn't get a permanent contract from the Albert Heijn. She didn't want that permanent contract at all. The column said: "Only Minister Asscher demanded that permanent contract for her. The result was dismissal." What does the Minister think of this criticism, which he received last Saturday? The Minister is going to evaluate and monitor the law and wants to involve a number of organisations and scientists in the monitor. Does he also want to involve the practice, such as labour law lawyers and the Association for Labour Law, in which judges sit? So we see not only science, such as the Central Planning Bureau, and implementation, but also the workplace, the practice. I would like to have a commitment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u179	Mr Mulder is now complaining about the right of dismissal in the Work and Security Act, but the VVD simply voted in favour. Does he regret his voice or does he support the support of the VVD for that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u180	The VVD supports this law and has said that careful attention must be paid to how it works. I have already mentioned the so-called retroactive effect of the transition fee. We've noticed that the law is bad at that point. If it doesn't work out, we'll have to adjust it. That's how the VVD looks at this law. We must keep our finger on the pulse, because it is about something, namely employment. This means that you must not take any risks and you must keep your finger on the wrist so that you can intervene when things are at risk of going wrong. That's how the VVD looks at this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u181	Anyone who had read that law at the time should have known it was an improvement. We've had labor lawyers here who all said it was an improvement for the employee. The VVD Group kept calling out that it was a relaxation and that it was cheaper, but what the minister said was exactly the intention of the law. What figure does Mr Mulder give afterwards, with the knowledge of today, for this part of the law? Is it a sufficient or an insufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u182	I will not be tempted to do so in this respect. I have said what I said about enough and insufficient, but I am now talking about the drafting of the law. We must be careful that the law does not have the wrong effect, causing people who want to work to lose their jobs. That's why we need to keep the finger on the wrist. I hear more MPs say that often about this law. Mr. Chairman. Part of this law feels unjust. Companies have to pay a so-called transition fee when their employees are dismissed. This remuneration is partly intended for a transition to a new job. But what if an entrepreneur has already arranged a new job? Is the transition fee still justified? Entrepreneurs who do don't think so. Why would you pay that fee when you've already interred your employee in another job? Then the transition fee is no longer necessary. How does the Minister feel about this? I come to the point of GroenLinks. We'll see how the law works out. I already mentioned the example of that cashier who unfortunately lost her job after two contracts. If the law does not work out well, alternatives, which GroenLinks called for in a motion last year, will come into the picture. We need to see if this law works first. If not, we look at alternatives. That's the order of things. Work must be rewarding. We are pleased that the cabinet has 5 billion tax relief in store, preventing negative purchasing power effects and making work pay more. In preparing the budget, we asked questions about the difference between a family in assistance and a family working for minimum wage; this is question 3 in the budget. A family in the assistance with two children receives €22,690 and a family with the statutory minimum wage with two children, with all supplements added together, €24,577. That's not even a $2,000 difference. My question to the Minister is: does this encourage someone to start working from a benefit as a earner for the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u183	Have you noticed that the speaking time you asked for is now over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u184	Yes. Then I have one more point. Can we do that? I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u185	Yeah, we're all keeping track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u186	The VVD pointed out two years ago that there is a forest of income schemes that sometimes contradict each other and sometimes are not streamlined. My predecessor, Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen, has tabled a motion on this subject requesting that the income schemes be reduced and streamlined. The Minister replied. We actually found that answer a little disappointing. He said: I do not want to streamline the arrangements so much as the concept of income and the dates. Will the Minister look again next year at the streamlining of all these income schemes, which sometimes contradict each other? We would like to receive a commitment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u187	From Mr Mulder's input, I really cannot see what report figure he is ultimately giving, but apart from that, that input is almost the input of an opposition party: he has a lot of criticism and thinks that it has to be very much different. I am left with one concern, which I would like to share with Mr Mulder. It is clear that on all these points Mr Mulder's party and the other coalition party, the Labour Party, are directly opposed. Is the result not that we will soon have had tough language from Mr Mulder, but that the outcome is that nothing happens for a year and a half and that there is no solution to the real problems, so that employers want to hire people, people get a training ad and we really reform pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u188	I hope that's not the outcome. I said there's work to be done. We have made suggestions to the cabinet, which must and must work with action. We look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u189	We've just seen a bit of a chordish display around the report figure. I really hope that the coalition will succeed, regardless of ministers' judgements and regardless of exact numbers, in solving the big questions so that when we finish this debate in a day and a half, we can tell people that we are really doing something to tackle unemployment, to really be ready for renewal. I hope that it is not the conclusion that Mr Mulder has been allowed to shake up some ideological feathers, but that nothing, but nothing, can be expected from this coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u190	My whole contribution has been and was aimed at creating more jobs. That's the point. As far as we are concerned, that is also the outcome of the debate we are having this week. These are measures to increase employment. Apart from the figures, I understand that this is at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u191	The VVD says it again: everything the VVD does in the Chamber is aimed at more jobs. However, it is the VVD that increased VAT, increased excise duties and increased insurance tax. The VVD also voted against a motion by my group to standardise VAT. All these measures by the VVD are aimed at reducing the number of jobs. How does Mr Mulder reconcile this with his desire for more jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u192	I said it at the beginning: if you want economic growth, you have to start putting public finances in order. They must be in order, because, as I said, a budget deficit is no more than a deferred tax increase or a cut. That makes people insecure. So you have to put public finances in order first. We would have preferred not to raise taxes. Unfortunately, however, we only have 40 seats. Then you can't do it all the way you want. That's annoying. But then you have to do it as you please. It worked. We can now see that investment is increasing, that consumer confidence is increasing and that there is economic backwind. The art now is to take advantage of this economic backwind, so that we get more jobs. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u193	All the way from a liberal, these are incredibly separate answers. There are, of course, always several possibilities for putting public finances in order. One of them is to spend less as a government. You didn't choose that. You chose to raise taxes. Tax increases lead to fewer jobs. So your story is at odds with your wish. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u194	There is only one problem: we have a democracy. Sometimes that means you don't have 76 seats, you have to compromise and you don't run away from your responsibilities and put the country in order. We did. We're proud of that. Now we want to take advantage of the backwind there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u195	I listened carefully to the whole story. If you give the Minister in De Telegraaf an inadequate and courageous speech, give the Minister a clear mandate on the basis of which he can then get an adequate one. I missed that from the VVD. The Chamber unanimously believes that the Minister has not delivered what she would like. Maybe the PvdA will. However, it cannot be that the VVD gets away with brave language and ultimately does not come up with targets and clear, clear language towards the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u196	I said the results are too thin. We have made proposals to improve them. I was talking about payment of wages in the event of illness, the collective agreement and the Work and Security Act. We will listen to the Minister and see what he does with our suggestions to get more employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u197	It is not just up to this minister to tackle unemployment. It is also up to Minister Kamp when it comes to lending to small entrepreneurs or business transfers. What proposals do you make to your own minister? The elections are coming and the coalition members blame each other for what did not go well. What's gone well, they're pulling towards them. Are you prepared to criticize your own minister in this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u198	The budgetary treatment of Economic Affairs has been carried out. That is where my group spoke through Erik Ziengs. We're doing Social Services now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u199	I was left with a question at the end of Mr Mulder's speech. Do we see a VVD group operating here criticizing the coalition or the policy of the PvdA part of the coalition? There are so many questions and so many things have not gone well, that I am beginning to wonder if the VVD does not support this policy at all. Is this still coalition policy or is this PvdA policy? And if by any chance there is another minister who does have the VVD color, is it good policy? Can Mr Mulder shine his light on that again? What the hell is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u200	Mr Dijkgraaf sees here a VVD group that wants unemployment to fall and employment to rise. He sees that VVD fraction. We have put forward proposals for this, because the reduction in employment is not going well enough. In fact, it's stagnating. We have a major problem with older people's unemployment. We have to do something about that. My contribution is to call upon and encourage the Minister to do so, and to make suggestions. That is what this debate is about. The unemployment rate must be reduced. That's my goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u201	That's a good goal. I do not know any party here that says that unemployment must rise. Right? I'm looking at my colleagues. No. But the key question is, of course, whether the VVD Group recognises that the policy pursued by this minister and Secretary of State is coalition policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u202	This policy is coalition policy, and we need to step up our efforts now. Moreover, it is not the case that every group here wants jobs. I already mentioned D66. That party wants to increase youth pay, which leads to additional unemployment. It is against a tax cut: 35 unemployed. We are not so united here about employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u203	There has already been a reference in several interruptions to last week's round of media of the VVD. There is, however, one point on which Mr Mulder was also very hard, but which I do not think I saw in his speech at all. Last week, Mr Mulder was very hard on his condemnation of the job plans, the sector plans. He didn't compromise his negative opinion. I have heard little about this in this debate. I am therefore curious whether the VVD Group thinks that these job plans can be repeated. And does the VVD group not regret that in June, in the debate on accountability, it did not support Mr Van Weyenberg's motion calling on the government to stop these job plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u204	When you look at what job plans have worked out in history, you see that's not much. We have given these job plans the benefit of the doubt. We're in a coalition, and then you make compromises. When the time came to possibly stop, we said: we stand for our signature, so we are not going to do that. A deal is a deal; that's the VVD. Now that there's money left, we need to see how we can use it more usefully. In this respect, the personal conversations at the UWV are important. I have spoken to the unemployed who said: there can be better. For example, this seems to us to be a good destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u205	But there's no need to repeat these job plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u206	My group wouldn't do it again on its own, but you never know what kind of coalition you're going into.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u207	As far as the tax reduction is concerned, I think Mr Mulder is mostly still looking for the 100,000 jobs that the coalition once promised. D66 is prepared every day for more relief, more work and less pollution. We have made plans for this. We await the courage of the VVD and the Labour Party to support it. However, I have another question. Does Mr Mulder think that these job plans are simply a failure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u208	The picture was that they would lead to additional jobs. That was also said, so we could see in Nieuwsuur. However, I must say that this has not been possible. The question is, what else could we have done with the 600 million? However, it did not lead to additional jobs, as suggested in the presentation. So they failed in that respect. There were good things in it, but of course that is also acceptable for that amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u209	Of these, 400 million are still on the shelf. A lot of money earmarked for youth unemployment has not yet been spent. So that doesn't help young people. The sector plan in construction did not work because the crisis remained. By the way, that's something to work with: a crisis plan that doesn't work because the crisis stayed... Is Mr Mulder's conclusion simply that it has failed? I would just like to ask you this very sharply, because Mr Mulder has already made some mistakes about reports. Did it fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u210	Yes. In the beginning, the suggestion was raised that it would generate jobs. That hardly happened. Then you shouldn't use that money like that again. Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about reducing the burden. He has to explain to me why his party is against increasing purchasing power and increasing unemployment. That's what it leads to when you're against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u211	Mrs. Vermeij?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u212	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u213	It's all possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u214	Thank you, Mr President, for this debate is important. We all want more jobs and lower unemployment. But how many jobs did they add last year? Does Mr Mulder know that? It is really not enough; I can say that in advance. We also speak to all those people and we get all those e-mails that Mr Mulder has read here. How many jobs have been added?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u215	According to CBS, 100,000 jobs were added last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u216	138,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u217	The question is whether we can't do it any more. Unemployment is stagnating and old age unemployment is persistent. That's the point. How are we going to take full advantage of economic growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u218	Then I want to combine two options. Mr Mulder has said a great deal in his contribution. He has said that it is a good policy, that it needs a tooth and that he wants more permanent contracts, but that it also needs to loosen up a little. Is that about the summary of his contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u219	You can say that there will be more permanent jobs if you make it more attractive for employers to offer jobs. That's right. The same applies to the elderly. It's not gonna happen on its own. For that, you need to get in your polder and maybe you need to put your fist on the table sometime. To this end, we call on the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u220	So much for part one of the VVD. We are now going to listen to Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan. She's the last speaker for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u221	Mr. Chairman. More than 1.6 million people in the Netherlands depend on benefits. So over 1.6 million people in the Netherlands are not participating in our labour market. That is a waste of their talent, for themselves and for our country. More than 1.6 million people are in files of the UWV and the social services of the municipalities. Whether it's WW, WIA, Wajong or welfare benefits, too many people are on the sidelines. They are lost in a complex system in which the role of the government has become too large and too rarely someone asks: what do you need to get back to work? That group of 1.6 million people isn't dropping. If we continue as we have done so far, that will not change either. It is time for the Minister and the Secretary of State to take action and turn their fine ambitions into concrete actions, also because it is necessary to preserve our beautiful social services for our children and grandchildren. The UWV's website states that it is their mission to return people who become dependent on benefits to a job perspective and to promote their participation in society. But the job seeker who is eligible with the UWV is rarely enthusiastic. The other day, I spoke to a man in his early 50s. He had been in charge of a printing company for years, but because of bankruptcy he had become unemployed. He had found himself a full-time job within six weeks. He wanted to cancel his first appointment at the UWV for an intake. Unfortunately. The UWV said, by e-mail of course, that cancellation is forbidden, new job or not. Of course, both this man and the UWV could have spent their time much better. Last week I also received a Twitter message: from every contact with the UWV you get a bit sad; as if you are always doing something wrong. The reaction of the UWV webcare team was: just hang in there, it's almost weekend! Is this how we feel that the UWV should guide people to work and treat people? The problems go beyond just treating people. The internal processes also leave something to be desired, such as business management. On the one hand, it is completely digital, but on the other hand, reintegration agencies are only allowed to submit their reports by post. On the front page the right box must be ticked, otherwise the file will disappear completely in the fog, for the rest of the period in question, and people will not be helped. The list of bugs is long: the method and the prioritization of re-evaluations of people with the WGA label and the faults of Werk.nl. It's five to twelve. As has already been pointed out in the VAO that took place before this debate, we do not want fine words but deeds. I would like a reflection from the Minister on these examples. What was his ambition in doing this job? Does he think he's on course for this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u222	Now the VVD shouldn't make a big deal out of it. All criticism of the UWV by Mrs Nijkerken is entirely justified, but it was Minister Kamp in a cabinet in which the VVD was in, which made the UWV hundreds of millions of cuts. People out, computers in. And now we see the problems. Then she cannot blame this minister, but she must blame herself for that. Where are the VVD proposals to give the UWV more money, so that the UWV can apply the human size again instead of those Kafkaesque computers? Then where are these proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u223	There have been cuts, which we have indeed signed in previous Cabinets, but that does not mean that you cannot change your organisation so that it fits the budget you get and that you still deal with people in a decent way. I do not think that has anything to do with euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u224	If you flicker 4,000 people at the UWV, when you say it's all via computers, and if they do all that, then it's low and false to criticize the people at the UWV who are still trying to make some of it? You got those cuts there, and now you're gonna embarrass those employees here a little bit. That's impossible, isn't it? Then give the minister a lot of money so that it becomes human again. Then join the SP: human size at the UWV. But you don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u225	I think it's about adjusting the processes. You say 4,000 people have been evicted, because I will not repeat that word. Then we wonder how the processes can be arranged in such a way that people who have found their own jobs and who are now just working have to use precious time from that UWV employee who is still there. That's what we're talking about. Again, align the processes to the budget you get. This minister knew when he started this job how the case stood. That's what he signed off on. I'm about to finish my story. I am sure that we will come up with concrete proposals on how things may be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u226	The UWV recently had a new director, Mr. Tof Thissen from Roermond. You're a Limburger, and so am I. He is also ex-senator of GroenLinks. Are you saying that this new director, who would reform the UWV, would blow a fresh breeze and solve the problems, not function properly or not do his job properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u227	I'm quoting the experiences I'm faced with. People approach me with these stories. We are all people's representatives and these stories come to us at work visits or by e-mail. I would like to quote these examples to ensure that the new director gets to work as quickly as possible in order to provide a solution with fresh air. Again, that really doesn't always have to do with money. That also has to do with a bit of mentality and how you treat people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u228	If this new director were to function properly, he wouldn't get these complaints and these letters. How many points do you give to the director of the UWV to use Mr Mulder's terminology? Do you give him an adequate or an insufficient? We are in the mode of enough and insufficient, so what does the director of the UWV, Mr. Tof Thissen, deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u229	I think we've passed out enough reports today. So I'm not going to go over that again with reports. I do, however, urge this Minister and Secretary of State to have an eye for this and to get to work on it, because it can also be otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u230	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u231	It must really be a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u232	Yes. There's talk of an UWV director, Thissen, but he's a deputy director. The real boss of the UWV is Mr. Bruno Bruins, who happens to be a member of the VVD. That seems clear to me before the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u233	That's noted. Thank you for this note, which, of course, is completely neutral, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u234	Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan just mentioned an e-mail from a lady who indicated that the UWV always makes you feel like you're doing something wrong. That is a valid point. 'Cause I'm getting e-mails like that. I wonder what mentality is expressed by the UWV against these people. Can Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan go into that a little more in depth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u235	The point is that from the UWV more and more people look at a tailor-made situation per person. One might need a little more, the other might need a little less. That means you need to know who's in your file and you really need to know the faces. I would also like to comment on that in a moment. I think it is a crucial step if we are to start with the transparency of files, to link people and work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u236	I'm very much into customization, too. However, was it not the VVD who, under the Law, found work and assistance to be much more generic coercive measures to be imposed and that people needed to be treated much more obligatingly? Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan believes that people registered with the UWV should receive much more customization and be approached much more personally. Doesn't that also apply to people in the Work and Assistance Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u237	I think there's room for customization. However, a measure must be taken if people do not comply with that customisation. In the end, assistance is the last safety net we have, and we must be careful about it. Everyone in there will have to focus fully on getting out of there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u238	I always find it difficult to blame people who, in practice, do their worst in a government implementation organisation for things that are also the result of political choices made here. I think we should start with ourselves. That's what I wanted to say. However, Mrs Nijkerken-De Haan offered a very nice opening. She said we shouldn't bother people who are just working with this. I have a very specific proposal, namely that Mr Ulenbelt and I should table a motion in the second term to put an end to the kafkaesque situation that people who have a job and start working in two or three weeks' time still have to apply, with the whole bureaucracy that goes with it. Have I understood correctly to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan that the VVD is going to support that motion? I'd be delighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u239	I will take that motion with interest and then there will be a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u240	That makes me optimistic. My second point concerns the fight against fraud. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan also said that we should not bother people who can't do anything about it. However, the Fraud Act ensures that we do not always catch the people who deliberately go wrong, but that people who are mistaken by mistake are dismissed as frauders. The VVD was always against amending the Fraud Act. However, I have just heard Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan say that people who are simply mistaken in complicated systems will no longer be treated as fraud. May I note that joyful new element in the contribution of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u241	I think Mr Van Weyenberg is putting words in my mouth that I have not spoken. The VVD still believes that the Fraud Act does not need to be amended. In the event of a mistake, the amount of the fine may be adjusted. In my view, this can simply be dealt with in the decision on fines. The Fraud Act therefore does not need to be amended as far as we are concerned. The question is whether the UWV and the Social Services really know who those 1.6 million people are currently on the sidelines. That science is the basis. This applies to all people who are currently dependent on benefits. What are someone's competences? What's anyone good at? This knowledge is indispensable to link the demand for work to a job vacancy with an employer at all. How do we make the files so accessible that candidates and employers can easily find each other? After all, it is the entrepreneurs who create jobs and who like to hire people for them. Unfortunately, I still hear too often that employers want to help people to work, but that social services cannot provide enough candidates and so many people are dying to work. Employers then drop out. The Secretary of State has recently written to us a letter on the simplification of the Participation Act. It endorses the importance of transparent and accessible registration of the stock. This was aimed in particular at the target population register. As far as the VVD is concerned, this should apply to all files. There's no time to lose. Here too, it is time for action after fine words. In September, we discussed Mr Schut-Welken's own-initiative paper. When it appeared that the policy of the UWV does not help people who are not sustainable, people in the WGA. Too long they haven't been looked at. The VVD wants to ensure that a doctor follows these people and is professionally re-evaluated after a treatment, so that they can go back to work if they can. We have talked about this many times, but unfortunately it has remained fine words on the Minister's side. In the second term, I will therefore call on the Minister to adapt the UWV's policy accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u242	Since Rutte started his cabinet, 60,000 people have joined the welfare service. You say a lot of people want to work and we have about 166,000 vacancies. That doesn't add up at all. What concrete plans does the VVD have to help the people in the assistance who can work for a job? In my first term, I made a proposal to that effect. Does the VVD support that, to help people in welfare who can do that to a job?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u243	No, the VVD doesn't support that. The SP wants to do so through schemes that only cost more money. The government should also create these jobs. We still believe in it. We continue to believe that entrepreneurs create jobs. Reducing the burden on employers creates these jobs. We don't believe they're made by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u244	All of us, as we are here, are actually subsidised staff, because we are paid by the taxpayer. I think there's nothing wrong with that, or you should want to turn in your grant job on the spot. But very specific: why give away 500 million to employers, which creates 7 000 jobs, and not give away nearly 500 million for 30,000 jobs? That goes to very useful things like ears and eyes in the neighborhood or janitors in schools. It's a golden opportunity for the VVD to get people out of welfare and into work. Why doesn't she support that? And if she doesn't, she's gonna have to stop yelling at people in welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u245	I do not call on people in welfare; those are your words. I hope that as many people as possible in the assistance will be able to get back to work. That is why we are working hard to reduce the burden, so that employers can take on people again, including those with a great distance from the labour market. I think that is what our policy is all about. What Mr Ulenbelt wants with his proposal is to put another €13,000 public money on top of a payment of about €13,000, and then create some sort of subsidised Melker lanes 2.0. That has not been done before and it is not going to be possible, because it costs too much money. Mr. Chairman. If we know which people they are, we can take them from the UWV or the municipality to work. The hard truth is that, despite all efforts, the government is still not sufficiently able to effectively guide and re-integrate people to work. Every year, we spend 3 billion euros of taxpayers' money on reintegration. That's a lot of money. It is a good thing that ZonMw is doing research into whether all these reintegration pathways that municipalities use actually work. Perhaps less government interference would be more helpful. Fortunately, more and more initiatives are being taken in which private parties want to invest money in helping people to work. That is not a hobbyism without commitment, but investment with the desire to produce something structural. Re-integration, according to the VVD, lends itself well to experiments in which the government and local government conclude a kind of pay for success performance contracts with private parties. The return will then be paid only if it is established that the pre-established performance has been achieved. So it really has to prove something. Experiences have been promising so far. An entrepreneur like Sandra Ballij manages to get people with sensory disabilities back to work. Otherwise, with an IVA benefit, they would have been written off completely and permanently as unfit for work by our system. Chris Kamp, an entrepreneur from Rotterdam, has recently started working with a group of entrepreneurs from his region to help people from the municipality's so-called "granite stock." These are people in whom most municipalities no longer think about reintegration. All it turns out to be necessary is a good private initiative and a government that provides motivated candidates. The VVD calls on the Minister to investigate further the opportunities and opportunities of this kind of private investment in guiding people to the labour market. What laws and regulations stand in the way of such initiatives? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u246	In my view, municipalities also play an important role in reintegration. Do I understand correctly that the VVD here advocates giving municipalities more opportunities to experiment on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u247	When it comes to reintegration with private parties, yes. These are the so-called "pay for success" contracts. So you make pre-agreements and when it turns out that people have been permanently discharged, you could pay the return back to the investor from the loss burden limitation that is there because of the fact that less benefit has been paid. So that has nothing to do with the experiments that Mrs Voortman advocates in order not to impose any more obligations on people, which we have just agreed with each other in the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u248	The aim, in my view, is to ensure that people get to work. The proposals that I have made and which many cities are really craving, make people work faster So if Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan is proposing this, then it would be very logical and consistent if she would also give municipalities more opportunities to experiment in the field of assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u249	There is an experimental room, as Mrs Voortman well knows. Only, it must fit in with the letter and spirit of the law. This is precisely what we have agreed with each other that there are a number of obligations to get you out of this benefit situation as soon as possible if you are forced to make use of a benefit. So it doesn't mean that you're going to experiment and you're going to turn a group against who you say: please, here you have the money or here you can earn €1,000 extra. The VVD doesn't agree with that. I have said before that it is the entrepreneurs who make jobs possible in the Netherlands. This applies to the Dutch labour market, but the world does not stop at our borders. Winschoten has 13.9% of the people who can work at home with a benefit while on the other side of the border, in Bunde, only 5.5% have no work. You'll see the same thing in Enschede. There 18% do not have paid work while in German Gronau, on the other side of the border, that percentage is 4.5. A chance for an open cause, you'd say. Unfortunately, both UWV and border regions still look too little beyond our country. We share a border of over 1,000 km with Germany and Belgium and there are job vacancies across that border. There is a lot of work for Dutch people who depend on a benefit. Letter from the government on cross-border cooperation shows that in recent years numerous initiatives and activities have been undertaken by companies, knowledge institutions and public authorities. An action team on cross-border economics and labour has recently been set up from Economic Affairs, consisting of representatives from various ministries, border municipalities, provinces, VNG and the euregions at administrative and high administrative level. I take this out of the letter we received from the government. But what is the concrete result? If you're going to ask border municipalities exactly what this team is doing, hardly anyone knows what you're talking about. And I didn't mean to. We have already drawn attention to this in a number of previous debates. Of course, it is good for the euregional labour market if you can easily regulate diploma recognition and if there are places where you can get information about the differences in laws and regulations between the Netherlands and the German and Belgian border regions. However, the VVD is somewhat disappointed by the concrete actions of both the Minister and the Secretary of State. I myself have already asked the attention of the Secretary of State for this in previous AO's. We think the results are too thin. The main problem is that many people are blind to the differences, but they can be overcome with a practical attitude and the right mentality. Instead, all kinds of scholars are trying to convince each other of differences in legislation, tax system and social security, and it will take years for us to wait for that. We talk like that into the pit. However, this does not happen in the Heuvelland, in the beautiful South Limburg. Just do it, there's the motto. There Pentasz, the social service in the Hillland, has achieved a lot of good results with his pragmatic approach. This social service takes care of client and employer, literally guides the client to his potential new employer and arranges all the paperwork, such as health insurance or registration with the Tax Office. He also keeps in close contact with the employer and the placed client in order to be able to act directly if there is a problem. If a Dutch diploma has to be converted to a diploma according to German standards, the service also arranges it and, if necessary, allows people to test, such as truck drivers or forklift drivers. Pentasz directly approaches employers on the one hand and temporary employment agencies in Germany on the other. In this way, the service fills out as many vacancies as possible. As has already been said, it is a good thing that this is achieving very good results. Pentasz employs only one person: a passionate German woman who knows the labour market well and finds nothing more beautiful than helping people get a job. The biggest challenge here is again to find the suitable candidates for this, so we need an insight into the card box and to make candidates fit for work again in the event of long-term unemployment. The approach works. In 2015 alone, a total of 51 people in that small labour market region, through German employers, were permanently excluded from a benefit until September. For the Hillland, this means that 20% of the people who flow to work flows into the German labour market. The art is to further develop the concept for the fourteen labour market regions along the border, not everyone for themselves and each other competing, but starting from the expertise gained in South Limburg. Enschede also has a pragmatic approach, which is characterised by bringing entrepreneurs together and encouraging language learning. The VVD calls on the Minister to standardise these good examples and to inform other labour market regions in the border regions so that they too can seize these opportunities. We call on the Minister and Secretary of State to take action. We don't have time to waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u250	We have now listened to contributions from the VVD for a little over two hours. The word 'integration' has not been used. You would almost forget that we are faced with the enormous task of landing the influx of asylum seekers here in the Netherlands. Why didn't the VVD mention integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u251	We all have our contributions. We have not made an active point of this. It is being discussed in a lot of debates. The Chamber speaks about this several times a week. It is an important subject; I absolutely agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. However, we are now discussing the SZW budget for 2016. There are more topics of interest, so you have to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u252	Then I have to note that the VVD is looking away from this enormous task, which our country now stands for. Let me give you one example. The VVD, like D66, is a party that doesn't want people in welfare. It has now become apparent that language control gives people two to three times more chance of getting a job and thus two to three times less chance of being assisted. The VVD doesn't want people to be integrated until five years old. Isn't that what the VVD's calling for for a welfare explosion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u253	No, the VVD is very realistic about integration. We do not want to give people who come here and who have a view of their return to the country of origin the feeling that they can stay by encouraging them from all sides to learn the language. There are people who can see a longer stay here; we want them to learn the language as soon as possible and that they can participate. However, there is also a group of people who are here temporarily and really have to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u254	I was working on that, too. Mrs Nijkerken and Mr Mulder spoke about all those people who are registered with the UWV. It's 1.6 million. Mr Mulder said: I want this and I want it and the VVD wants it. In fact, Mrs Nijkerken and Mr Mulder are running away from the social debris they have organized together with the Minister and the Secretary of State for the last three years. It has become a social ruin in the Netherlands. What story does Mrs Nijkerken tell, on behalf of the VVD, to all those unemployed, to all those people in the assistance, to those 300 000 people who eat dry bread, about the nearly 100 000 asylum seekers.......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u255	There is indeed a huge influx of people asking for asylum. You also know the treaties. The moment people report here, we can't just refuse them. We are doing everything we can to make the reception here as sober and unattractive as possible, but at the moment when people come here and want to apply for asylum, we also have to abide by the treaties. We are doing everything we can to accommodate people in the region as much as possible to ensure that they do not make those crossings, but we are obliged to include people who come here and knock at the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u256	The vast majority of these people are just migrants, so the asylum treaties do not apply to them at all. They're migrants, economic fortune seekers, so they just have to go. That is not a story that the VVD has for all the unemployed we have in the Netherlands. In addition, the only people who have helped the VVD to work over the past three years are the people of the Centraal Body receiving asylum seekers, the management, bus drivers, people placing beds, what companies making deliveries. An old VVD council member who also happens to have a holiday park in the Netherlands, which is now filled with and a high capacity utilisation rate. Those are the only people who have helped the VVD, but they are those backs of all those people who pay taxes, all those people who have also become unemployed thanks to the VVD. For the rest, the VVD has nothing to say to them at all. I find the story of the VVD very thin in the last two hours and I think that it is only an excuse for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u257	I'll leave those words to the PVV. What are you gonna do with that? You're just yelling. Calling and bleating, but few concrete actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u258	It's easy!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u259	Yes, it is for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u260	I think it is almost surreal that the largest party in the Netherlands, which always has very tough stories about integration and immigration in newspapers and during elections, does not mention anything about its own contribution to integration. I would like to hear the VVD's view on the integration issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u261	In my opinion, in recent times, we have launched plans for how we deal with them as a VVD, as the largest party. This is the subject of a debate here in the Chamber three to four times a week. We now considered it important to highlight the problems of the labour market in order to ensure that more permanent jobs are created. That is the choice we have made. I'm curious to hear your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u262	At least that's a good thing. Another point, which I have just touched on, is the VVD's vision of integration. You are now saying that there is a lot of talk about this in the Chamber. Fine, but we are here at the most important debate on Social Affairs, the budget. Then the least you can expect from the country's largest party is that it indicates what its vision is on this huge problem. We have a problem with extremism, with Islamic radicalism, and you are not saying anything about it. So again, what is your view on this problem? How are we going to improve integration according to the VVD? And what plans did you come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u263	I believe that we have launched the plan of my colleague Azmani. That is now European policy. That is indeed about immigration. At a time when people are coming here and are actually seeing that they are allowed to stay here for a longer period of time, we will have to do everything we can to get them to learn the language as soon as possible and to understand what they can do and how we can guide them to the labour market as quickly as possible. No different than that applies to all the other Dutch people, who are currently registered with the UWV or with the social services. Because the moment they are allowed to stay here, there is no distinction and we will therefore have to understand as soon as possible what these people can do and how we can then assist them in their work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u264	Everyone in this Chamber knows that the longer people are unemployed, the harder it is to get them back to work. Is it not very strange that it is precisely the VVD that says that asylum seekers can only be helped when it is clear that they can stay here? Then someone's been here for years, but in the meantime, nothing has been done with that person to activate him. Wouldn't it make much more sense if people were encouraged to work from day one? Then we'll make sure they don't get into the welfare files later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u265	And thus further enhance the attractiveness of the Netherlands? No, we say, as many people as possible in the region, make it as unattractive and as sober as possible. If people come here and eventually find themselves allowed to stay, we say: yes, that is what we are going to do. But first, it must be clear whether these people are allowed to stay. If we put a lot of time, effort and above all money into that whole group from the start, the Netherlands will tip over. We can't handle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u266	Mrs. Nijkerken needs to take a closer look at the facts. If we know people are allowed to stay here, it's better that they're at work from the start. In doing so, we will prevent them from coming to welfare for a lifetime. In addition, when people are at work from the start, even returns are better. If the VVD is so for return, it is better to ensure that people get to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u267	We disagree on that. If, in the end, it is established that people are allowed to stay here, then we will work with them in all possible ways, but not until then. We do not want to unnecessarily give people the hope that they can stay here longer and benefit from benefits and assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u268	Perhaps the VVD would do well to prevent people from fleeing war and oppression, not to do business with countries like Saudi Arabia and Qatar and not to supply weapons, so that bombs could not be thrown, so that people would not have to flee. Perhaps it is a good idea to bomb Syria less and find a solution so that people can stay in their country. Perhaps it is also an idea that the VVD adheres to human rights and does less deals with a regime like Turkey's. These are all suggestions that can prevent people from fleeing. My question concerns the people who already live here, migrant workers. They were welcome for the VVD, because cheap labour. But also former migrant workers who have now become Dutch. The VVD hijacks all amenities. The VVD cuts and sells the social housing, increases the rents, and chokes the people in the popular neighbourhoods. What three measures does the VVD take to enable integration, coexistence in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u269	I think we are talking about the Social Affairs budget. We must do everything we can to create as many jobs as possible, because work is the way to provide for your maintenance. The same applies to migrant workers, as Mrs Karabulut is talking about. That's where it starts for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u270	I haven't heard the beginning of an answer. I don't think the VVD has that answer either. The VVD itself is the problem. Yes, work and income are incredibly important, but you don't settle that by pouring billions into the banks' greenhouses, by taking care of millionaires, and then leaving the account with people living in people's neighborhoods. You do not do this in that way, and then look away from growing segregation and division, by not organizing language, by cutting jobs and by putting 60,000 more people into welfare. That is the policy and result of Rutte I and Rutte II.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u271	I say this about this: the SP does nothing more and nothing less than increase public spending further. This leads to a huge increase in the burden on entrepreneurs. This does not create jobs. The VVD is not in favour of that approach. The SP and the VVD will always differ in this respect. We are not going to convince each other of our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u272	Mrs. Karabulut, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u273	I note that it is the VVD responsible for high unemployment. I notice that it is the VVD that chokes 400,000 children into poverty. And I note that it is the VVD that does not have any solution for integration: no language courses, no distribution, nothing at all. The same mistakes are now being made, and that is disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u274	I note that it is the VVD that has put public finances back in order. I note that it is the VVD that can reduce the burden by 5 billion and thus create jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u275	I note that there is a great deal of racism and discrimination in the Netherlands. The figures show that we are at a high point. Discrimination prevents many young people from getting a job. One in three young people with a non-Western background have no job because of discrimination. I've heard the VVD for an hour about all kinds of things and problems. The VVD has a constituency with many entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u276	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u277	My question is: what is the VVD going to do in concrete terms to tackle discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u278	There has also been a great deal of debate on this in the past. It is of course very annoying that if you have a last name that does not sound like Jansen, De Vries or call another...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u279	Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u280	I didn't want to use your name, but you do it yourself. Of course, it's very annoying that you're 1-0 behind. Then you can do two things. You can hang your shoulders or you can fight it and keep going. That's the call I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u281	Keep fighting, that's Mrs. Nijkerken's story. She says: entrepreneurs, continue to discriminate and workers, go fight and accept the discrimination. Apart from that, Mrs Nijkerken's story goes straight against Mr Asscher's policy. Is she still pleased with Mr Asscher's policy or does she think, as I understand from her input, that Mr Asscher's policy is wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u282	Discrimination is never good, but it is a utopia to think that the government can regulate and organize it all by law so that it does not happen anymore. So no, discrimination is not good. But once again, you can accept it, or you can, as Mr Öztürk says you are standing here or call another name, bend it, be positive and keep trying. Again, discrimination is not acceptable, but it cannot be ruled out by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u283	After the suspension we will listen to Mr Heerma. Thank you for your contributions and wish you all the best tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u284	We will continue with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. In the first term of office, Mr Pieter Heerma of the CDA will have the floor. He has indicated that he would like to speak for about 22 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u285	Mr. Chairman. The first sentence of my contribution was that after three years of Rutte II it was a good time to prepare the interim balance sheet for Minister Asscher and Secretary of State Klijnsma. The contribution of the VVD, that is not the most original opening line in this debate. I share some of the criticism of the VVD: the interim balance sheet is not only positive. I'm looking at the effects of introduced laws and the fragrant edges that that has resulted in. I point to unforeseen effects and looming errors. This creates an uncomfortable image. The Work and Security Act, half of the debate with the VVD, just now has many problems. I mention the daily wage scheme in the WW. Even now, the question of whether the problems have been resolved is still under discussion. The retroactive effect of the transition fee had to be repaired. The chain determination in seasonal work leads to accelerated dismissal rather than a permanent job. The agriculture and horticulture and recreation, maintenance and education, sports associations, the emergency calls that reach us via e-mail are stacking up. All in all, it's not such a beautiful picture. I hope the Secretary of State will forgive me if I say that the quota in the Participation Act doesn't work. This needs to be restored: willing employers who drop out, municipalities who don't understand that target group register, a law that doesn't increase the opportunities for the target group, but has fueled competition within the target group. And then there are the job plans and sector plans. Hundreds of millions have been spent in a time of crisis and austerity. The result: a lot of plans, a lot of bureaucracy, a lot of delays in implementing plans, but above all no jobs. As far as the CDA is concerned, this cannot be repeated. Then the Law approach fakes constructions, which leads to problems in rewarding for the minimum wage. When the law was being discussed, we had a lot of discussion about it under the leadership of Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP, who tabled an amendment on this subject. We have asked whether this would not cause problems. The discussion then focused mainly on the broadcasting sector, but in the meantime there have also been calls from debt relief and social employment services. The letter we received provides a solution and, above all, clarity for debt relief in this respect. Time has come for social work, but no solution has yet been found. I am curious to see what the Minister intends to do on this issue in the next six months and what prospects can be offered, bearing in mind Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, which has already played a role in dealing with the legislative proposal. It was about "yes, if" or "no, unless." I think the previous speakers and also the previous VAO have said enough about the ongoing fuss at the UWV. A number of motions have also been tabled, including a motion by Mr Ulenbelt, who my group has co-signed. Against the backdrop of these laws with these fragrant edges and unforeseen effects, we see a labour market that grows sliver because employers no longer want to bear the burden and seem to hollow collective agreements as a result of broadcasting andzzp structures. We also see a coalition in which liberals and socialists seem to hold on and paralyze each other a little too often. Is that a gloomy thing to do? I think there are still plenty of opportunities. Let us take up the opportunities that lie on a file where, according to my group, this should be the first. I am referring to a further reform of the labour market. The bridge between, on the one hand, the costs and risks associated with putting someone into permanent employment and, on the other hand, the total freedom of working withzzp'ers has not yet been established. It's too solid and flex is too flex. That's still true. From the General Employers' Association Netherlands (AWVN) about a year ago a nice move was made. There was a plea for more regulations and more provisions for all workers, regardless of the form of contract. This is an approach that is so logical that you can't really get past it, especially if you want to avoid that as a result of the erosion I mentioned, collective agreements become more and more a thing of the past. However, in the polder we see too often that distrust and taboos prevail. That is what the Minister himself said during AO's this spring. I am talking about the extent to which the polder is lobbying politics to give the salomon judgment rather than getting out at the negotiating table itself. But this also works in politics. In my group's view, the Labour Party is too often clinging to only the sound of the FNV. The VVD, on the other hand, applauds the Anglo-Saxon labour market in all sorts of articles of opinion. The thrilling joy and relief of sliding forward and parking the ibo-zzp file recently, is the most recent low point. Wage payments in the event of illness have also been pushed forward too ambitiously. With the direction chosen for a solution for employers with fewer than ten employees, the problems will not really be solved. Something must be done to stop this downward spiral in the labour market, and also to break the deadlock, both in polder and in politics. I would like to use an important part of my contribution to this debate to make an effort to this end. I hope that tomorrow, during his first term, the Minister will also go into this in detail and take up the glove. After all, what goes wrong with this pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness? The core is that the experienced financial risks associated with long-term illness are too great. This is particularly true in SMEs. The obligation to pay wages in the event of illness is seen by entrepreneurs as a risk that they cannot cover up in tariffs. More and more SMEs are therefore forced to dispose of or not to hire workers at high risk of disease. The number of flex workers is increasing and collective agreements are starting to flow empty. If this continues for a number of years, there will be a real problem with collective provisions and collective agreements. Especially older workers are forced to continue their careers as flex workers orzzp'ers, because a fixed contract is no longer in place. Mr Mulder has already mentioned this and we have held a hearing on this recently. The same work is done, but now mostly without insurance, because these older workers form a risk group and are therefore difficult to secure. That is a very big problem in the current system. If you're doing well, you might not think about insuring yourself, and if you need it, you'll fall outside the risk selection criteria, or the insurance will be so expensive that it's almost no longer affordable. That certainly applies at the bottom of the market. This has directly contributed to the growth of the number of flex workers through two years' pay in the case of illness. This works mainly through at the bottom of the labour market. It also encourages improper competition on tariffs and thus displacement. If this continues, social services for workers will come under such pressure at the end of the day that it is not desirable. Not only companies with staff but also the real independent entrepreneurs without staff suffer from a negative tariff spiral. Companies cannot bear the risk of pay-off in the event of illness and therefore reject workers. We therefore propose to arrive at a general basic insurance wage payment. It could also work as a labour market reform mechanism. That basic provision covers the loss of income for a maximum period of two years, the period until the current WIA verification, after a period of eight weeks has elapsed in which the employer still bears the risk. This reduces the period of pay for sickness for the employer from two years to eight weeks, to two months. As far as we are concerned, the basic insurance that follows could be designed along the logic of the current healthcare system, namely a legal anchor that is carried out by the market, by private parties, with full acceptance of everyone on equal terms without risk selection. It shares the risks, makes the premium acceptable to all participants and does not exclude self-employed persons with a higher risk. This will also help to avoid a significant part of false competition on working conditions. Risks to the individual employer should be reduced, especially in SMEs, older workers will be more likely to intervene andzzp'ers will also be part of the system. This will lead to resistance for manyzzp'ers, especially at the top of the market, because they do not like obligations. But if you want to make this system work well, in line with the idea of employers' organisation AWVN, it is necessary for that obligation to come about for everyone. That would be my group's proposal. Today's reactions both from politics and the polder are hopeful. This stalemate, the fact that something has to be done to solve it, is experienced by everyone. But I have seen the various comments. D66 doesn't want an obligation forzzp'ers. The PvdA is afraid that things will mainly be passed on to the employee himself. From the polder, especially from zzp'ers themselves, there were also critical reactions. But through everything you taste, among others at Bouwend Nederland, SMB-Netherlands, the ABU and the FNV this afternoon, a basis of positivity in the sense of: it is an interesting idea, we want to pick this up. That is why I would like to propose to the Minister that the basic principles of this idea, intended to break a deadlock, should be laid down in the ESC and that the ESC should be consulted on this. This could well be linked to a motion recently adopted in the First Chamber under the leadership of Christian Union senator Ester, which has been supported virtually Chamberwide in the First Chamber and which calls on the ESC to come up with solutions for long-term unemployment. As far as my group is concerned, this proposal, this idea, could be linked to it in the sense that you cannot solve long-term unemployment without looking at the payment of wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u286	I like the plan. I would also like to present it to the ESC. This is an important problem. In my own contribution, I will start with that too. I shall then go back to Mr Heerma's speech. Then I'll have my introduction again. That saves time, because I think we have some time to go. But my question is about the following. If you're looking at thezzp'ers, why is it necessary to force that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u287	There's no such thing as thezzp'er. Zzp'ers are a wide range that starts with the real self-employed entrepreneur and ends up somewhere in the real sham structures at the bottom of the labour market, but in that line in between, to a lesser extent, there is real entrepreneurship. I think that during the crisis period Mr Dijkgraaf also received e-mails from people in whom it really went wrong, including the social safety net. These people are in the bottom half of thatzzp group. If we are to come up with an arrangement that offers solutions for the labour market, let us take this with us and let us provide thesezzp'ers with a basis in line with the GDPR's proposal. Such a base can only be mandatory. A very important additional advantage of this is that you solve the problem of unfair competition. This unfair competition prevents older people from intervening and only cheaply and without insurance from working as a self-employed person. That is why my group supports this obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u288	I do see the advantage. There is of course a large number ofzzp'ers who wouldn't really like to be azzp'ers at all but employees. Maybe we should also pay more attention to how we make sure that these people are no longer self-employed, but can become employees. Is Mr Heerma, if he puts it down to the ESC, also interested in models in which one way or another can be distinguished? For an independent entrepreneur who, as Mr Heerma puts it, may be sitting at the top, it is a great thing that he can make his own choices. For that group, I have a problem with you forcing them to do something they don't really want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u289	I am very pleased that Mr Dijkgraaf has been able to do some of his own term in the event of interruption. That is also because, in essence, he follows the same line of thinking, namely that the impasse must be broken and something really must be done about this dossier. I believe in an obligation; the SGP has more doubts about that. Let's put it together at the ESC and let him look at it in all wisdom. If the SER then makes the assessment that some of thezzp'ers should get dispensation, I am not going to shoot it in advance. I think it is particularly important to break the deadlock. I wanted to make a move for that, and I hope that we can give each other a hand in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u290	This subject was also discussed in the General Political Reviews. At that time, the group chairmen of the major parties tabled a motion to raise this problem of pay-as-you-go in the event of illness. The Minister's reaction to this is rather lean, as Mr Heerma rightly points out. Mr Heerma says that private insurers must do so. The Association of Insurers responded this afternoon by saying that it does not want compulsory insurance. That seems to me to be a problem. The second problem is as follows. With regard tozzp'ers, the risk of illness is not seen at all as a problem in the first two years, but rather as an indication of non-payment of pension contributions and disability insurance. So I think it's a nice plan but rather ill-thought-out. I am also reassured that Mr Heerma is now proposing to present the idea to the ESC with the task of devising a ruse and a solution. Is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u291	There's quite a lot in this question. I'm glad the SP Group likes it. The fact that Mr Ulenbelt thinks that the plan is ill-advised is something that I shall take for granted. I have tried with my group to break the deadlock. That is why I have put forward a proposal for which many parties will have to hand in something, but which will also benefit a great deal. Unfair competition in the labour market is a point where the SP is always very concerned about it. This is what we are doing, and we are also trying to increase the employment opportunities for older workers. I have also seen that, among other things, the Association of Insurers and the OVAL have reacted critically, as well as the CNV and the FNV. So everyone has indicated the pluses and the minuses. As far as Mr Ulenbelt's final question is concerned, yes, I would very much like to put it to the ESC. In view of the reactions from the SME Netherlands and the FNV, I hope that they will resolve this problem. If we can find each other there, I'm already very satisfied. Then we can have differences of opinion between ourselves. I understand that the SP is not for execution by private insurers. That is a consistent position of the SP. However, I think that is necessary, because private insurers can do better than the government with an open-ended scheme. I have faith in it: public guarantees, private execution. Let's let the ESC take a look at that in its wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u292	That seems very sensible to me, because what the Minister came up with was indeed too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u293	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u294	The main points set out by Mr Heerma may also be amended by the ESC. Let me get this straight. If that is the case, then I think it would be wise to put the question to the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u295	The CDA Group is not going to dictate the SER with its thirteen seats in the House of Representatives, but I made a concrete proposal because this is what the CDA Group believes in. It is not that we say, no matter what the ESC comes with, hallelujah, this is a fantastic idea. I have said to Mr Dijkgraaf that I think it is particularly important that the ESC should take this up because we have pushed the problem forward for too long. We have had a number of debates with the Minister on this. The proposal now before us, which is hidden in the ibo report onzzp'ers, is too thin and does not solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u296	Of course, you can always indicate pluses and minuses when a fellow chamber member comes up with a proposal. It appeals to me to look at all workers and to find a way to collect the lake. I do have the question of what's going on for the employer. The employer now has an incentive to invest in the sick worker. As soon as you do it as Mr Heerma proposes, I think that incentive will go away. How does Mr Heerma see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u297	This is one of the reasons why a number of parties say that the pay-by-pay period should not be shortened at all. That is one of the elements of the debate that we have been having for a long time. We now only see that for many employers selection at the gate becomes an important means of prevention. We don't want to give that incentive to each other. It is justifiable to say that we go back to eight weeks, precisely because of the implementation of private insurers. It is worth checking whether we have organized that incentive much more than in the past to get those people back to work. That works better, too. I am very confident that with such a system we will not go back to the old situation with the high loss of disease that we had in the past, precisely because those private insurers put on it. Again, holding on to two years gives a wrong incentive. Selection at the gate will not want Mrs Voortman herself either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u298	Another aspect I have some doubts about is the cost to the employee. Especially for employees with a lower salary, I fear that this can have quite a price tag. Mr Heerma would like to put it to the ESC for an opinion. Is it then an idea to ask the ESC what it thinks of such a scheme becoming dependent on income?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u299	When you finance something with premium, it often has an income-dependent component. Let us be honest: pay for sickness also has an income-dependent component in itself in terms of its level. This is not such a complicated question to put to the ESC. I want to be honest about how it's gonna have effects. I think that a large part of the financing of such basic insurance can be done by the wage room created by employers because they are no longer individually responsible and also because we keepzzp'ers in the system. I cannot say in advance that it has no effect on the contribution of employees. That will have to be demonstrated in the course of the work. But the fact that it has an income-dependent component seems obvious to me when it comes to payment of wages in the event of illness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u300	Mr Heerma made an interesting speech. He said that we are somewhat critical of the plan, but I think we are very positive about the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u301	I didn't mean you personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u302	No, no, but as a fraction. I just wanted to make this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u303	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u304	My group thinks it is an interesting idea to go on with the work. Of course, the proposal raises questions. For example, Mr Voortman has already put a number of them. My question is how we can properly shape the re-integration process, the involvement of someone who is ill, an issue that we talk about a lot about in this house, in this eight-week model and basic insurance for those two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u305	I think I just said that. We shape it like the healthcare system. That private insurer has a very important interest in shaping that reintegration. So there's that involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u306	Then I haven't expressed myself well enough. Eight weeks will be paid and then the insurance will follow. Azzp'er has no employer behind him. An employee has an employer behind him. Is that employer still behind that employee in the period up to the WIA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u307	I think so. All kinds of incentives have been created that encourage employers to engage. Mrs Vermeij says: I do not want to go back to past absenteeism rates. I don't want to. But I also do not want what we now have problems with the labour market, where older people no longer intervene. Mrs Vermeij says: the PvdA is in the beginning positive, let the ESC look at it to make a breakthrough. We would therefore be pleased if the Economic and Social Committee looked closely at how these things could be avoided. Of course! I don't think anyone wants to go back to those high grades we had in the past, but we do want to get out of the stalemate. However, we want a solution to the problem that SMEs no longer dare to hire and that older people no longer intervene in the labour market. I think we share, also in view of the reactions, a lot of the things that need to be solved and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u309	I'm just finishing up my answer, Mr. Chairman. We need to look at how we get into that instead of just looking at what we don't want. The current situation will then continue. I don't think anyone wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u310	I'm always okay with parties trying to break deadlocks. I had a similar appeal in my speech. As far as thezzp'ers are concerned, I'm gonna make another weighing. I just want to focus on the other part of the plan. Do I understand correctly that the pay-by-pay period therefore remains just two years, but that the first eight weeks are directly, non-insuredly financed by the employer and that there will be collective insurance for the period thereafter? If I have understood that correctly, is it true that an employer who does good or bad in helping to integrate sick workers actually has to pay those first eight weeks but does not pay a low or high premium afterwards? Is there enough incentive left for that employer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u311	We differ on that first point, the zzp'er. I get that. However, I have seen that Mr Van Weyenberg also thinks that we should break the deadlock. That is a good thing. The answer to the first part of the question is yes. That's about the system I'm proposing. Individually, the employer reduces the responsibility, the care, the burden from those two years to eight weeks and then we get a collective system to which we are paid. So it is not the case that the burden is gone at once, that disease has to be paid out of nothing. The individual pressure from the small employer, who may also be unlucky, I think that Mr Van Weyenberg has also seen the examples coming along in recent years, however, is being removed. I have already mentioned several times, on all kinds of good suggestions from colleagues, that the ESC can also, of course, consider whether you can do something about the contribution level for employers who are doing it exceptionally badly. I'm not against that in advance. That way you could keep an incentive effect. If that is what Mr Van Weyenberg is suggesting, then I am not against it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u312	I particularly ask questions because Mr Heerma was quite critical of a variant that was still on the table, with one year that the employer pays himself and one year that the employer pays through collective insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u313	For less than ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u314	Now that period is getting shorter. I am particularly curious to see why Mr Heerma chose that eight-week period. Is there anything else he can say about that? I understand that in an international perspective, two years is a very long time. I would also like a solution to that. But isn't eight weeks relatively limited? What has been Mr Heerma's consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u315	In my view, we were jointly critical of the proposal contained in the ibo-zzp plan. This had to do with the fact that it was only for companies up to 10 employees, and we know that a lot of problems lie with employers who are slightly larger. It had to do with the voluntary opt-in/opt-out. It also had to do with the fact that a great deal of responsibilities that lie with the big employers in that second year are not being dealt with, that it is being postponed in that letter. These are all elements that I have tried to include in this, in order to make such a really extensive proposal rather than the mess in the margin, I would almost say, in the letter. I think that with this system you can certainly maintain sufficient incentives with those eight weeks. Both employers' and employees' sides in the polder have responded positively in the beginning. Everyone makes comments, but today's reactions, both from SMEs-Netherlands, Building the Netherlands and the broadcasting sector as well as from the FNV, are more positive than I had anticipated. Makes me think they're seeing this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u316	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u317	I come to long-term unemployment. More needs to be done for the elderly. Mr Mulder had just mentioned this in detail. There are plenty of solutions to come up with. The Minister has also devised and applied many of them. There are campaigns to remove prejudice. There is also Mr Krol's ambassador, who has been working on this for a long time and who has recently received a majority with the support of the PvdA Group. I also mention the personal contact at the UWV, on which I think we received a letter yesterday. These are good things, but there are also more difficult measures. I think Mr Mulder was talking about 'painful measures'. Following the hearing we had, I ask whether the taboo on emotion should not even be broken. That subject came by there many times. A number of speakers also said that politicians should not touch this, because it is very dangerous. However, I would like to put that question to the Minister. Isn't this a taboo we need to break? Mr Mulder also spoke just now about the transition fee. Shouldn't it actually be used for transition? Shouldn't we limit that fee to that? And should the responsibility of the social partners not be increased in the first half of the year? We got a letter about the pilots. For example, I hear very enthusiastic sounds from the province of Overijssel. They want to get involved. The ESC in Overijssel also says: yes, we want to participate fully in this and we want to take this up in the region to build the from-work to-work infrastructure at the front. How does the Minister view these initiatives and the fact that this is going to be taken up locally in this way? And when we talk about the position of older people in the labour market, should we not also come up with a vitality regime? We've had that discussion before. It's the old philosophy of life. This can be an outcome not only for older people in the labour market, but also to cope with emotion, to create space if someone has to provide care or for training. Young families can therefore make choices to care for the family. I believe that such a step, such a tax-enhancing saving for time and money, would be a very good move in the current labour market. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, in which he also explicitly addresses the results that this can offer, precisely for the position of the elderly in the labour market and for the continued reconciliation of work and care. As far as young families are concerned, I think the Minister deserves a compliment. During this cabinet period, we had a lot of discussions with each other about savings on child schemes and support for families. However, I am looking at the last few months, at the extra money available for child support, child care and extended paternity leave that we have been discussing for years. A number of good things have been put in place for that. I'm fine with that. Once again, the Minister deserves a compliment. I do have a question about the position of the parent participation nursery. We have also been discussing this for a very long time. Suddenly, there was the letter about the investigation last week. You can read that letter in two ways. Put this letter on a crack, what do I hope? And is serious research being done on whether they do not deserve a child care allowance if you look purely at the quality? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I saw that the colleague of the SP wanted to ask the Minister through the procedural meeting for the design of the investigation. I'd like to see that, too. I would very much like to see us as a Chamber being set up for the investigation, precisely because of the discussion we have been having for so long. Are they or are they not entitled to the childcare allowance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u318	I always like to be optimistic in nature. I know that I find Mr Heerma by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u319	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u320	The CDA, GroenLinks, SP and D66 have long fought for the position of parent participation crèches. My reading of that letter is that, following an approved motion at the Congress of the Labour Party in order to come up with a solution, the cabinet has moved forward. The motion has been stopped, I now hear the colleague of the Labour Party calling behind me. That's too bad. Then I hope she will be adopted soon. Does Mr Heerma share my view that this is the beginning of the solution and that optimism is now justified because he and I both know that the quality so far has not been left in the supervisory scores?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u321	In his letter the Minister writes that he heard the many critical questions from the Chamber needed to conduct this investigation. That is a good thing. It means that heavy substantive questions from us as Chambers can lead to such a thing. Mr Van Weyenberg suggested that a resolution at the PvdA Congress had been held in the right direction. He must have contributed to that. Then it shows that internal party democracy also works well. Yes, I'm optimistic, but let's make sure that this is really going to lead to child care allowance for parent participation crèches. That is why I ask once again whether the cabinet would like to send the design of the investigation to the Chamber. Mr Siderius of the SP has also asked for this. I would also like to hear that from the Minister. Another topic relating to the labour market is seasonal work and the functioning of the Work and Security Act. I was just talking about it in an interrupting debate with Mr Mulder. Can the Minister state exactly what the state of affairs is? We have had several debates on this. The Minister has read letters, signed by VNO and FNV, with a positive intention to get out. Still, it's been going two ways for the last few weeks. I believe that LTO, the polder, employers and employees, deserve a compliment for finding a solution together. That's also the best step. However, we also hear noises from other sectors which show that at the last minute solutions are ricocheting and one cannot find each other. Then the conclusion is that a wider exception for seasonal work should be introduced into the law. Otherwise we will go to a situation where the position of the seasonal worker in agriculture and horticulture has been saved, but others, at the campsite, at the sports association or in recreation, lose their jobs. Surely the Minister doesn't think that's desirable? The broadcast of RTL on Friday morning gave a striking example of someone who doesn't want to lose his job at all. Should we not regulate seasonal work better in the law, so that it is not properly regulated in one sector, while in the other the problems persist? The VVD Group wanted to give the Minister until March. I would like the Minister to take steps now, following the good work done in the polder in agriculture and horticulture. The Secretary of State will not get away without questions in this debate either. One issue on which we have discussed it many times is the bureaucracy in the Participation Act. We have a lot of discussion here about how a person with a validated wage value measurement by a municipality can get into work with wage costs subsidies and get no part of the UWV. This is hollowing out the support for the system. I had good hope that after the vote before the summer, which said that there should be a solution this autumn and that the practical route would otherwise be opened up. However, I was not enthusiastic about the letter we received last week. Why isn't it settled? Why did it move forward? Why do we need more research? What parties didn't want this? Because I'm getting a strong call from all sides. Get this done. I get that call from those involved, people who fall out of the system, employers, municipalities and also Cedris wrote a rather solid letter about it this week. And yet it hasn't been settled yet and it's been pushed forward. Maybe I should be more optimistic about this, too. I see the Secretary of State communicating non-verbally. That makes me hopeful. Are we gonna take care of this? Are we going to ensure that the support for this scheme is not further undermined by the bizarre situations created by people being able to work with labour costs subsidies, but employers and municipalities are mentally absent because the UWV says: sorry, duvetbrier or flower seed sorter does not count? For the issue of poverty, I would like to refer to Mr Schouten of the Christian Union. She's been working on this a lot. She is working with colleagues from the Labour Party on an initiative law on this issue. From VNG and Divosa, we are getting all sorts of worrying signals about the protection regime, which is only increasing and is swallowing up a very large part of the special assistance budgets. It differs from one municipality to another, but in some municipalities it is a very substantial part of the budget. The profession of director may be exercised by any person. Shouldn't that be tighter? There are training courses for them, but they are not mandatory. Shouldn't there be a little more guidance on the people who work with such vulnerable people in a difficult situation? Shouldn't the judge be tighter on that ability? I think it has to be formal, but that does not happen equally well everywhere. Shouldn't the judge look more often to see if a less far-reaching remedy can be found? This will prevent the massive explosion of government we have seen over the past few years. I'd like the Secretary of State to go into that as well. I will conclude with the theme of reintegration, especially for Mr Sjoerdsma. He wanted a WHO, but we didn't. He rightly accused the VVD of not devoting a single word to it. That's not gonna happen to me. In this budget, we have also made several proposals in the last year on the straight line of reintegration. The debate on the ban on anti-democratic parties, which was proposed in the budget debate last year, is still ongoing. I very much appreciated the debates in the Chamber on this issue. This file is now being picked up seriously. In my concept input I had for the weekend a passage with strong criticism about the total silence that had arisen after the participation contract that was presented with a lot of bombabre. Unfortunately, I had to make this passage a little more positive after the Minister's letter. As an opposition, you sometimes find that a pity. A non-binding declaration of participation is now being followed up. I think that is a step in the right direction. As the Minister explained yesterday at Pauw, that appeals to me. We must not neglect our values and values, our Jewish-Christian tradition. We've been neglecting these for far too long. There has been far too little attention to it. We have not handed them over enough to newcomers and to new generations. That is a discussion that we must overcome, because a society that does not maintain its own values and standards is no longer resilient and becomes orphaned at some point. In Western Europe, we live in one of the most prosperous parts of the world, with peace, security and human rights. No part of the world can compete with that. That's quite something to be proud of and to carry out. Healthy and modest patriotism is not bad, but that is a force of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u322	The CDA often talks about the Jewish-Christian tradition. I'm talking to a lot of CDA council members in the country with a different background, who also have a different belief. They're talking about traditions changing and going with time. They say to me that they have a Jewish-Christian-Islamic tradition. How does Mr Heerma feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u323	We have a Jewish-Christian tradition here. CDAs say that a lot. That's what I'm saying in virtually all my contributions. My plea is precisely that we have spent too long promoting traditions from cultural relativism and that they are something to cherish. These are many of the traditions that we have built up here. I would like to put less cultural relativism to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u324	There are a million Muslims living in the Netherlands. There are dozens of CDA council members who support that belief. Mr. Heerma will soon be visiting Mustafa Amhaouch in the Chamber, who has built a mosque in Heroes-Panningen, but here he still denies the Muslim tradition. He still says: we have a Jewish-Christian tradition. He contradicts all those Muslims who want to contribute in the Netherlands, who want to participate in the changing tradition and want to be part of society. I am so sorry that he is stabbing all those CDA council members who want to involve all those voters in the CDA day and night, with this stabbing a dagger in the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u325	This is really a ridiculous reasoning. Let me give you an example by saying that the Muslim who is mayor of Rotterdam is a perfect example of someone who names and conveys our traditions, our values. The suggestion that you put a dagger in the back of Muslims is bullshit to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u326	Please continue with your speech. You have one minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u327	There's always a need for time with this kind of thing. I'm gonna finish up. The tolerance that the Netherlands is known for abroad has become too often: figure it out for yourself, as long as you don't bother me with it. Everyone has to know for themselves how he wishes to behave. Anything's got to be possible. That message is also given to newcomers when they settle here. I therefore welcome the statement by the Minister that we are in favour of certain values and wish to promote them. I would like to take that a step further. If we want to promote and appreciate our leading culture more openly, then we must also give it to future generations in our own country. As far as I am concerned, this participation statement is not exclusive to newcomers. We ourselves must recognise, promote and pass on our values and standards, our Jewish-Christian tradition. I don't know if the minister knows the book I'm holding here. It's called Citizenship and Citizenship, and it was awarded in the fifties it was established after World War II by municipalities to anyone who got the right to vote in the Netherlands. Thus it was made clear what rights, but also what duties there are in voting rights and active citizenship and how you convey those values in order to keep society beautiful and good together. I don't know if the minister has this book. This is my only copy, but I'd like to lend it to him when I get it back tomorrow. I would very much like that tradition to continue in the 1950s, so that newcomers, but also those in the Netherlands who have the right to vote, were given the values of active citizenship from the 23rd year onwards, now from the 18th year onwards, with the duties and responsibilities associated with it. I'm gonna finish, 'cause I'm a little over my time. I would like to hand over the booklet to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u328	What happened to humanism? Why does Mr Heerma speak only of the Jewish-Christian tradition? What happened to the socialist movement? I can give you many more examples, but I think we agree on the general universal values such as freedom of expression and association, equality, the right to self-determination. We agree on that. However, I am concerned about what solutions the CDA has to deal with the problems of integration in our neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. The fact that we all have to continue to talk about these values is obvious, and that is even more important, even if we are migrant or non-migrant, that we have to live up to these values. However, with a thought police or just making statements, we are not going to get there either. I would therefore like to hear the CDA's solutions to the integration issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u329	The CDA has been talking about our Jewish-Christian tradition for years. Mrs Karabulut's use of other words for that is her right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u330	I don't use any other words. Humanism...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u331	Mr Heerma is still working on his answer. Go ahead, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u332	The CDA has made numerous proposals on integration in recent years. One of these proposals dismisses Mrs Karabulut as a thought police, namely the criminalisation of the glorification of terrorist violence. The debate on anti-democratic parties can also be considered. Recently, the CDA and the SP have jointly taken initiatives to counter influence from countries of origin, for example by Prime Minister Erdogan. I would also mention the role of the CDA in the debate on Salafism. These are all proposals that we make with each other to draw boundaries and promote integration. In addition, we often hang out with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u333	Sure. That is why I hope that Mr Heerma, together with me, will call on the Minister to sign this declaration of credibility, because whoever preaches certain values, she must also live up to it and not then make agreements with countries of origin or organisations that hinder integration. However, I would like to ask about this segregation in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. I am thinking of the problems that people face day by day, such as language problems, the fact that neighbourhoods are one-sided and that there is often a concentration of serious problems. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that much more needs to be done about this, rather than looking away that is actually a policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u334	I will respond to both parts of the question. When it comes to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u335	Statement of credibility...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u336	I haven't read the play yet. I will look at it, but in general terms I agree with Mrs Karabulut that you should take action when talking about values. There are also numerous discussions about the segregation in neighbourhoods during the discussion of the Housing and Rijksdienst budget. The SP is for a mandatory distribution policy. Motions on schools have already been tabled in the past. We have not usually supported them. I see Mrs Karabulut shaking no, but I think the SP has repeatedly tabled motions on education. Once again, we often find each other when it comes to integration policy and dealing with a number of issues. My point in this debate is that we must promote these values, be proud of them and be aware of them. This should go beyond just the new entrants' declaration of participation. I see the Minister is already very interested in the book. Let us give this to everyone who gets the right to vote in the Netherlands, so that everyone can see how important this is. It's not just about duties. It is a proposal, Mrs Karabulut, and I hope you can support it. I hope you will also look at the booklet and see what added value it can have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u337	I'm getting really interested in the book now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u338	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u339	Perhaps tomorrow the Minister will be able to read out some crucial passages. I hear it's already got pen marks in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u340	What's your question? We still have three hours of pure speaking time to speak, so I am trying to be a little short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u341	Mr Heerma says that not only newcomers should sign a declaration of participation, but that we should also hand out books of this kind to all those who have the right to vote. Does Mr Heerma think that the participation declaration should also apply to an 18-year-old?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u342	No, I didn't say that. I welcome a declaration of participation for newcomers. Your predecessor on this dossier, Mr Van Weyenberg, was very critical when it came to the participation contract. Mr Azmani, who then spoke on behalf of the VVD about integration, and I myself was right to respond positively. However, we said at the time that it must be something and not too non-committal. The Minister now seems to be following up on that. In line with that, I am positive about that, but I would like to move on. The promotion of cultural history and values would also be good for future generations. The booklet I was talking about can be found online and is called Citizenship and Burgerzin, so take a look at it, too. I would be delighted if, in addition to all the freedoms we have, the responsibilities and obligations would be brought to the attention of newcomers who acquire the right to vote and those who reach voting age. That's what we did with that book in the '50s.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u343	In summary, if I understand correctly, Mr Heerma says that people who turn 18 and newcomers should be given this booklet, and that newcomers should also be given a participation contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u344	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u345	May I ask Mr Heerma why newcomers should sign that contract and not our 18-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u346	Growing up in this society is really something else than coming from outside. I don't think it's wrong at all that you're tying mandatory cases to that. We can differ on this. That is a consistent position for D66, because that has been very critical of it from the outset. I believe that this instrument can have added value. I would also like us to transfer rights and obligations to anyone who reaches the voting age in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u347	I have a chain question that can be answered with one sentence. Is Mr Heerma in favour of homosexual rights, for the equality of women, against anti-Semitism, for the protection of those who have left faith and against violence towards those who think otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u348	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u349	How is Mr Heerma going to de-islamize the CDA? 'Cause it's gonna get, like I hear, a MP who built a mosque.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u350	I do not like the way you serve fellow roommates in this way. I attacked you earlier when you did that with a colleague of the Labour Party. I think you are dishonoring yourself in this debate by making suggestions like this about Members of Parliament. Perhaps you should get to know the future CDA colleague yourself and have conversations with him before you ask such suggestive questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u351	Moreover, it is very unusual to hold a debate on those who are unable to defend themselves here. I understand that this colleague will be here soon. You can then enter into a debate with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u352	Mr President, the interruptions go in threes, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u353	We'll do it in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u354	I've seen that several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u355	Well, not since I've been in charge here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u356	That book has been mentioned many times. Is it Rengeling and Mug's?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u357	I think so, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u358	It's called Citizenship and Burgerzin and now let it stand on national government.nl. For all interested colleagues and the Acts, the whole picture is now complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u359	I thanked Mr Dijkgraaf for his first interruption and I do so for that. The SGP's service orientation has no boundaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u360	That's what it turns out to be. I give the floor to Mrs Vermeij of the Labour Party. She has 16 minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u361	I'm trying to keep it shorter. We are doing this budget debate three times, and I am trying to speak in the first twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u362	Okay, let's set the clock to 12 minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u363	Mr. Chairman. We're in a different world than we were a year ago. It doesn't just seem that way, it does. That leads to a lot of essential questions. Are there limits to our charity? How do we defend ourselves against extremism and its excesses? There's totally random violence. That leads to many questions, at home at the kitchen table, in schools and on the street in the neighborhoods. There is fear, there is uncertainty and discussion. Today we are simply discussing the budget SZW, looking at what is good and what can be better, how we can better help people looking for work, how people with disabilities can participate, how better security of existence for more people, young and old, can be achieved through good work. Our contribution is focused on the working lives of people, on the human measure of things.... that will be the red line... and on good work. I would like to address a great concern of myself and my colleagues, which has also been referred to by other colleagues, particularly Mrs Karabulut of the SP. It doesn't matter what you can, the level of education of your parents is everything for how you grow up, to which schools you go, which direction you have to choose very early in the Netherlands and whether or not you find a place on a erratic labour market. One of the most famous politicians in the world, Robert Putnam, is merciless about the situation in the US. If we as a society are not able to break this vicious circle, not only do many dreams of many children not come true, but we also create a society of haves and portot, we destroy the social capital of individuals and of society as a whole. Also in the Netherlands, according to research by the SCP and the WRR, there are concerns about networks that are closed, safe social environments of highly educated people with each other. People with lower education and low-skilled work are increasingly different in terms of wages and opportunities for growth in the Netherlands and are more likely to have worse contracts. After decades of generations that could always emancipate and become more educated, it seems that this trend has stalled and there is a danger of a gap developing. I would also like to hear what the Minister thinks or thinks of this. The PvdA will never let this happen and therefore the PvdA is firmly committed to a good basis for all children. A good base starts from a very young age. My colleague, Mr Yücel, will discuss what we have in mind. In this budget treatment, the PvdA wishes to highlight the importance of organising a final approach to vocational training placements. I actually want to start with that education agenda as well. A number of young people are now fishing behind the net and cannot even finish their training. In the Netherlands you cannot finish a study and get home on the couch because of the lack of internships or no internships. We have tabled a motion that has been adopted in relation to the education budget together with GroenLinks and the SP. But we also call on the Minister to implement this motion as a matter of urgency. His plan for the lost and forgotten youth is just part of this. I am asking for better cooperation between the two ministries in this area. I think this is important, especially in the years to come. Furthermore, the PvdA has already urged Mr Van Weyenberg to help vulnerable young people on their way to the labour market during the previous budget debate. It's always up to date. Social investment and the creation of more workplaces ensure fair and equal opportunities for those who have difficulty entering the labour market. Unfortunately, it also turns out that someone's background is for access to that labour market. A Dutchman with a migrant background has twice as much chance of being approached for a job as a native Dutchman under 35 years old, as we read in the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination. And that's unacceptable. I find this much more intense than I have experienced so far. The PvdA believes that everyone counts fully and is fully part of our society. This afternoon, an employee came to my study; she's really good. With an employer she had applied and by accident she received a reply from that employer where she was not hired, with the following sentence: we do not invite them, wrong name. I think she's happy that she doesn't work there and she does work with us, but an anecdote like that just gives her thought. The discrimination is so sneaky and so present that we are more than tired of it. That is why we propose to do something we have never intended to do before, namely to look at the possibility of testing anonymously applying. I believe that Mrs Karabulut has also pointed this out in her contribution. We're just gonna do it once, I guess. I'd like to get the Minister's response to that. I don't just want to talk about opportunities for young people. We also have another structural problem in the Netherlands in our labour market, which we have been working on lately: unemployment among the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u364	I have a question on the previous point. I think it is very important that young people are in the picture, because otherwise they will not be able to be properly supervised. It now appears that there are more and more young people living with a parent who has a benefit and who decide not to register with the municipality because of the cost sharing standard. How does the PvdA feel about that? Is she willing to do anything about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u365	I don't think it's okay if people don't feel like joining society anymore if they don't feel like enrolling or looking for work, but that wasn't Mrs Voortman's point. She's referring to the invisible young people. Yesterday we received a whole package of information on this subject. I think it's good to go look for those people. I do not think that we should debate the cost-sharing standard on a detour right now, but I want to focus on the young people we do not have in view and who have not finished their studies. I think there are quite a few of them. We need to find them and find them, find out what their options are for completing their studies and see if we can guide them to work. Sometimes that's really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u366	The problem, of course, is that young people, if they are not registered with the municipality, are completely untraceable. The PvdA says we need to find and find those young people. So what's the PvdA gonna do about that? Unregistered young people are completely untraceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u367	That's right, but I know there are special programs in the municipalities. The cabinet intends to look at this with a large number of municipalities. As I understand it, it's just going by the doors to look for these young people. I hear Mrs. Voortman saying you don't know where they are, but you know they went to school somewhere. You really do know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u368	Mrs Vermeij is right to make a point. The discrimination against non-Western young people is enormous. Many entrepreneurs make sure that these young people become unemployed. Mrs Vermeij herself gave a wonderful example of this. Is the PvdA's answer to this "go anonymously apply"? Shouldn't the PvdA's answer to this be different? Shouldn't she say "we're gonna go see this entrepreneur and we're gonna talk to him"? Shouldn't she just do adoption-and-shaming? Shouldn't she make sure all these other entrepreneurs don't? This minister has been responsible for tackling discrimination in the labour market for three years, but figures continue to rise and young people remain unemployed. Shouldn't a big deal be the answer of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u369	Mr Öztürk is actually right. Anonymous application can never be the only solution. I totally agree with him. I think it is only a means and preferably only a temporary means. I would like to have the debate on this because I find that many young people are almost despondent and have the impression that they can't get anywhere. I think we should talk to employers and talk to them. We also need to show good examples. Let us not just point out all the things that are not going well; there are also places where things are going well. We have made a fantastic work visit to NedTrain, where mbo-2 youngsters are trained who immediately get a permanent job. These are often immigrant young people. There's a whole package. There's an action plan. I believe that Mr Öztürk can only agree with me that something more needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u370	The Prime Minister said you have to fight. A lot of young people had put their hopes in the PvdA, but they say: you have to apply anonymously. Do you know how much pain you are born and raised Roermondenaren or Rotterdammers of the third and fourth generation do with this? All these people should not put the name "Öztürk" in the application because they cannot get a job. Do you know how despised all those young people who can't get a job right now feel about this? Do you know how much it hurts them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u371	If it doesn't work, we really won't. I'm looking with you for ways to make sure it works. However, we have a huge problem. I just want a look at the possibility of applying anonymously. What's going to come out of it if we put a stack of letters somewhere where we took the data away from everyone? It can't be that an employee with us does happen to someone after a job interview by accident gets a reply with the message: we don't invite them; wrong name. I don't know if it's gonna work, and if it doesn't work, we're not gonna. Then we'll come up with something else. We're gonna have to work on it. I'm agitated here and I'm looking for the success factors. And I'd like to think with you. As I said, I do not just want to talk about the opportunities for young people. We have also had a rather solid debate over the past few months about the older unemployed, a major problem on the labour market. That is why we have recently organised a round table and, together with Mr Krol, I have been able to table a motion to appoint a champion against prejudice. Employers are already financially tempted to employ older unemployed people. Many more employers could have known that, but many unemployed are now left to their digital fate by the UWV, while many jobseekers cannot cope with it. The Minister is fulfilling the wish of the Labour Party, but also of the Chamber, to provide more personal guidance for job seekers to get to work. That's good. The PvdA attaches more personal guidance to those people who have ended up in the WIW and their questions. But the PvdA prefers to see that you also understand that people do not end up in the WW at all, but are helped from work to work. The latter is part of the social agreement of 2013, not yet mentioned in the contributions of my colleagues. Social partners can guide people from work to work. I also see a new role for employers and employees here. Last week we received the cabinet response to the SER opinion Future labour market infrastructure. Mr Mulder has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u372	My question is about older people's unemployment. We have a policy for this, the CPB has considered that this is not effective enough, we have 127 000 elderly people who are unemployed for more than a year, the Minister has sent a plan. What ambitions do you expect from the Minister? How many fewer older unemployed should we have with the plan the minister comes up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u373	As you know, social democracy has been set up to strive for full employment, so if you ask me what my ambition is, then I would like everyone to come to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u374	We all do, but can you be specific now? What measures do you intend to take? I told you, some of them are unpopular. We want this cabinet to be able to take care of the fact that there is more work for the elderly. If we say that we want general employment, then it is always right or always wrong. But in concrete terms, how many people do you want to work with the plan that this minister is coming up with, so that we can say that it did or did not succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u375	I understand your question. We have also asked you this question; we did not always get a very clear answer to it, but that aside. I have thought about this, Mr Mulder, because I think your point is correct. We are not reassured that this is a piece of my speech on long-term unemployment and also on the structural side of it. Because that structural side affects four out of ten unemployed. You may not be satisfied, because you look so gloomy at me, but I will give you an answer to your question. In the First Chamber a motion has been tabled by the Christian Union, already mentioned by Mr Heerma. He really wants to look into the long-term aspects of unemployment and whatever is involved in it. We really need to add that agenda to that too. Are there any elements that make it impossible to help older people get a permanent job from their WW, and why is that? We've heard the elders. Most people simply want to get to work, most of them are also willing to pay for it, so the goodwill of employees is really very great. But maybe there's more. I would also like to place that responsibility where I think it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u376	Please continue with your speech. We're doing interruptions in two. We're just gonna get on with the story anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u377	I found that ambition rather firm. I therefore believe very much in a new role for employers and employees. It is not so much, I say, in this Chamber, in the third year of the WW but precisely in the period before that, the notice period for employees. How are we going to ensure that this period is used to a great extent, so that people can really go from work to work? We have not done that well in this country, either with the UWV, or with the social partners, or with employers. Trade unions can also play a much clearer role in this. We're glad to have some pilots running now. We expect a lot of that. I have already answered the other question. Equal pay for equal work in the Netherlands is not self-evident for most young adults. Young adults under 23 years of age earn extremely little in the Netherlands. The statutory minimum wage has been created to allow workers to live independently economically. For young people, even though they have completed their training, who simply go to work, this is not possible in the Netherlands, while they do have to pay for health insurance, public transport, rent, gas and light. We have also been working on this as a Chamber. Wages also create unfair competition between workers and between large and small companies. After all, large companies have adapted their business model accordingly. We have already been reminded of this by Young & United. A majority of the Chamber supported a motion on this matter. GroenLinks, SP, ChristenUnion and PvdA supported a D66 motion to put an end to these abuses. We would have liked to have seen, I say in the direction of the government, that there had been a proposal here, along with that on the minimum wage and piecework, but unfortunately that is not there. The Minister thinks he'll come up with that in January. We have also noted that the ESC is dealing with this issue. We are very curious when the Economic and Social Committee will deliver its opinion, but perhaps we, as a Chamber of Inquiry, can take cautious steps on this point ourselves. So we would very much like to see a proposal from the government soon, but if it does not, we will see how we can implement it together. The aim of the Work and Security Act is to ensure that everyone, including flex workers, knows what they are up to. A large number of employees are more secure in this way. I speak a lot of labor lawyers. I'm e-mailing them, but they're e-mailing me, too. They outline certain images of the introduction of this greatest change in labour law for decades. The law was introduced on 1 July. So we're de facto exactly six months away. The great wave of dismissal has not happened, but we remain very critical. We will continue to follow the law next year, including the case law. By the way, a lot still seems unknown. The law provides for exceptions for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to refer to the collective agreements, in which tailor-made work can be done. We have already talked about the seasonal work and the consultation between LTO and FNV. They have taken their chances, but they do not do so in other sectors. There's a lot going on. I ask the Minister to give a picture of this. What does he expect at this point and how will it proceed? The solution of LTO....... for four years a loose contract, then a fixed contract... seems nice. It also seems to be a solution to the system in which the WW was accepted as an entrepreneurial risk and where many sectors, not least public service broadcasting, made massive use of it. In the end, employers want to give a lot of people a permanent job. I may be a little less gloomy about that than my colleagues. Many employers have made a cultural change in this respect. We see this in collective agreements in construction, but also in RTL and ING.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u378	Mrs Vermeij talked about seasonal work and LTO. Has it also looked at the recreational sector? There we see images of a dissatisfied employer and a dissatisfied seasonal worker. Does Mrs Vermeij consider that appropriate? How is that to be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u379	Dissatisfaction is never desirable. I also looked at the recreation sector. In fact, I've been there a day. I have been able to see the wide variety of companies there. There is already a so-called mommy and papacamping. This law doesn't bother him. It is a very large campsite where husband and wife both work. They don't normally employ people, only occasionally in busy times. It is a very large campsite with duo functions. That's ideal. However, a number of people also see problems. By the way, on campsites the consequences of those six months are still to be done for some, because those campsites open rather late and close again rather early. I see and I really hope that they will get out of there in consultation. I suspect that the discussion will continue after this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u380	Mrs Vermeij hopes, and that is not a strategy. If an employer and an employee are dissatisfied, is that correct? Is that law good enough on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u381	There's a difference between that employer and that employee. That worker is entirely dependent on that employer. The question is whether that employer does not have a solution to the problem and whether that employer has looked carefully for a solution to the problem. I, too, receive emails from employees who are very dissatisfied and prefer to work. But I also point to employers who need to be able to offer a tailor-made solution for this. In the recreational sector this is already possible: four times six. We'd like them to consult with each other. I ask the Minister to reflect on that, because I very much hope so. But the fact that nothing happens in that sector is bullshit. There is a total variety of images where you cannot take just one example as a measure of things. I'm gonna finish up. The last topic picks up last year when the ibozzp wasn't there yet. The IMF even comes with a warning. The number ofzzp'ers in the Netherlands is increasing exceptionally fast. Worldwide, we've never seen such a sharp increase. The IMF has been surprised to see that even nursing staff in hospitals has been working as a specialist on a large scale, in uniform and under direct management. We also see in schools that the teacher or the master is pushed into such a construction. Unfortunately, as I say to the government, it has not been possible to come up with a response to that ibozzp that forces certain breakthroughs in it, looking at the fiscal facilitation of both groups, looking at the bottom of that labour market that is slowly being eroded and looking at the social security that is being undermined. That is why I have just responded to Mr Heerma's idea, because I believe that we can give this subject, together with the structural problems of employment, to the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u382	Mrs Vermeij cites the IMF report that says that the high number ofzzp'ers in the Netherlands results from the rigid labour market. Does Mrs Vermeij share this analysis and if so, what does she want to do about this rigid labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u383	No, I don't share that analysis. Mr Mulder did not read the government's report on ibozzp, because there is more than "the labour market" or "work law." There's also something like: who do we make cheap?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u384	I'm talking about the IMF report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u385	Yeah, but that's not the only cause the IMF calls. There is a great concern at the IMF about the number ofzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u386	I have had intense debates with Mrs Vermeij on increasing the age of AOW. It was introduced at the time because we would now have a lot of people short and no hands on the bed. The opposite is true. We now have 600,000 unemployed. Does Mrs Vermeij now regret that she supported the increase in the AOW age on false assumptions at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u387	No, because the assumption that we have supported the increase in the AOW age due to labour shortages is incorrect. There was something else going on. There was also an increase in life expectancy. That's what we've all been dealing with. We also dealt with sustainability issues. There was a conglomerate of causes, of which we could not predict the crisis, including the employment crisis. This required an increase in the AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u388	My party has asked Maurice de Dog whether, given unemployment, the AOW age should be raised further. 73% of your party's voters say no, you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u389	Do you want it to go up any further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u390	No, he shouldn't be up anymore next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u391	After next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u392	That was the question. 73% of PvdA voters think so. Surely that is reason to return to your steps...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u393	I understood...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u394	Let Mr Ulenbelt finish his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u395	... if only for what the people we heard at the table said about ageing unemployment. We should no longer impose an obligation to apply if people at a higher AOW age are never accepted. Can Mrs Vermeij not return to her steps? Can it at least exempt the elderly from applying for employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u396	From that survey I don't know, I understood that it didn't matter which party the interviewees were. I am now really sailing on the data I have from Mr Ulenbelt. It was all about 60% to 70%. It's a really painful measure. It is also a painful measure for people who become unemployed. We have happy WW and IOW in the Netherlands without partner and power test. If you lose your job at that age, we really want to do something about it. And more needs to be done. But I'm not going back on my feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u397	Last year, Mrs Vermeij argued for compulsory disability insurance forzzp'ers. I see she's brightening up. Perhaps she simply did not have enough time to go into that. I would like to hear from her how she is now, also in view of the ibozzp and the Minister's response so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u398	I found that disappointing, because I had hoped with others that steps could be taken. The analysis in the ibo zzp also gives rise to this. At the time, I shared that with Mr Van Ojik, who was then in charge of the budget. We have also discussed the compulsory nature of the proposal. We shared the concern that a risk sharing obligation should occur. That is what we agreed on at the time. Although I still have many questions, I find Mr Heerma's words of today interesting. That, too, is compulsory insurance for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u399	That's right. That proposal is also about insurance for all workers. That is indeed an interesting aspect. I understand from this that the Labour Party is still in favour of insurance for all workers. I am counting on the Labour Party to support proposals from other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u400	That depends a bit on the design, because there are a lot of issues attached to it. I have now responded to Mr Heerma and his proposal, which I have many questions about. I would like to put the entire conglomerate in the ESC. Also there are thoughts about it, as well as about the ibo zzp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u401	Mr. Chairman. The government, encouraged by the Labour Party, wants to bring about a number of important and necessary changes in our labour market. For example, it wants to put an end to the flexibilisation that has gone through, where people have to put the jobs together to make ends meet at home, and where they end up head-down in the race to the bottom. I also call it a firmer approach than ever before to exploitation of foreign colleagues, unfair competition against companies that do comply with the rules, and repression of Dutch workers who, as a result, remain on the sidelines as 'too expensive'. I refer to the reduction of top incomes in the public and semi-public sectors, because our tax dollars go to excellent education, beautiful living and good care, and not to towering salaries of educators, corporate bosses and care bosses. I also call it helping employers to provide opportunities for people with disabilities, so that companies reflect our society. This is done with respectively the Work and Security Act, the Law approach bogus constructions, the Law standards top incomes, the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement Act and quota labour restrictions. They're all laws that came into force this year. They are also all laws that had broad support in the Chamber, not only from our coalition partner. They are all laws that bring about changes that we take for granted, but which do not yet come about by themselves. They are all laws which, in fact, mean nothing less than a cultural change. Away from the culture in which people are seen as an inevitable cost that you cut as much as possible, and not as the largest capital of a company, in which you have to invest. Away from the culture in which client and main contractor draw their shoulders on underpayment, look the other way and wash their hands in innocence. Away from the culture in which so-called top executives like to mirror themselves on salaries abroad, but at most go abroad for their holidays. Away from a culture in which corporate social responsibility goes no further than giving Max Havelaar coffee and using recycled paper. Such cultural transformations require a long breath. They ask for perseverance and for the willingness to permanently denounce abuses. The Labour Party does that, every day, with heart and soul, because it stands for a decent labour market, for just good work. The Labour Party urges the Cabinet to continue to support that simply good work by quickly sending to the Chamber the concrete translation of the Enforcement Directive which brings equal pay for equal work in the same place. It encourages the Cabinet to continue to strengthen this by continuing to be at the forefront of its efforts to bring about a substantial improvement in the Detachment Directive, so that Europe can promote equal pay and no longer frustrate it. The cabinet should also vigorously tackle bogus self-employment by translating the liability for clients introduced by the Wet approach, for example, to parcel delivery, where large players such as Bol.com and Zalando walk in over the backs of deliveryers. This chain liability should be applied not only in terms of working conditions but also in terms of working conditions and safety. I've argued for that before. The Labour Party also encourages the Cabinet to continue to make a strong commitment to good work by keeping a firm commitment to enforcement. In this context, I urge the Minister not to cut back on the extension of the SZW inspection previously advocated by the Labour Party and subsequently agreed in the social agreement next year, but to maintain its strength for the time being. A number of colleagues, including Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg, have called for this before. I also ask the Minister to put an end to the agreement that the Tax Administration concluded with the temporary agency industry in 2010, the so-called ET scheme, which makes temporary agency workers from other EU countries much cheaper than Dutch workers. I also ask him to review the old A1 form critically. This leads to false constructions in the form of bonus hopping and the search for the place where the premium is lowest. As far as my group is concerned, that has to end. I would also ask the Minister to deal with the abuse of traineeships and work experience places after young people have graduated, in which they actually carry out normal work, but the employer does not have to pay them wages. That abuse is going hand in hand. I also ask the Minister to include in this approach the experiences of the campaign launched last summer by FNV Jong. The Cabinet must also continue to promote a decent labour market by ensuring that the Participation Act provides more jobs for people with disabilities than would be the case without that law, in business and in the government as a colleague between colleagues. That is happening now, but more is needed. After all, our ambition and that of trade unions and employers is high. If well-meaning rules stand in the way of that, we should not be afraid to deal with them. It is good that, at the request of the Chamber, the Secretary of State started to do so. I note that she has made agreements with trade unions, employers, municipalities and the UWV, which I, but not just me, have called for earlier: from a fixed wage subsidy for the first half of the year to not having to measure a person's wage value every year. And there have been agreements made on the "I say this in my words" to get more information on the differences arising from the UWV assessment and on-the-spot wage measurement. However, I have also asked the government to step up its role as an employer. However, I have not yet seen a more or less promised letter following a motion I tabled earlier. That is why I would like to propose that we quickly come up with a plan of action with concrete actions to give enough people with disabilities to the public authorities themselves. Practice what you preach. In almost all the debates on the Participation Act, I have drawn attention to the creation of jobs for people with disabilities, by promoting social entrepreneurship, together with Mr Heerma, for example, through social procurement and through reshoring, the return of work to the Netherlands. I am doing so now, very specifically, by asking the Secretary of State to investigate practical and/or legal obstacles in procurement practice that hinder better and more use of the instrument social return. And I do it by asking her to make the total cost of ownership model developed in Tilburg available to the whole of the Netherlands. This is now being experimented with in Brabant and provides employers with an overall picture of the costs associated with having work done here or elsewhere. Above all, when it comes to the Participation Act, it is also important that people who are dependent on benefits are treated fairly and with respect, taking into account their personal circumstances. Municipalities need to encourage people to get the best out of themselves, sometimes by stimulating them a little when they need to, but without that going crazy in teasing or bullying. Municipalities should be perfectly capable of doing that right. In fact, it was one of the reasons for putting the implementation of the law in their hands. They are closest to their inhabitants. They should know who they are, what they can do, what they want and what it takes to get there. They must therefore be able to deliver tailor-made products.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u402	When the Minister came up with sector plans, the Labour Party applauded: ha, job plans! We now know that they have not earned a job. Nevertheless, Mr Kerstens is looking for jobs for people who are having a hard time. Today, the SP has launched the plan to help some 30,000 long-term unemployed to useful, meaningful and socially full-fledged work. That plan costs 500 million. 600 million has now been wasted. Now we're going to spend 500 million well. Can we count on the support of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u403	Mrs Vermeij has just said a few things about this, but I do not think that 600 million of the sectoral plans has been wasted. Moreover, it was more money because trade unions, employers, sectors and regions liked the plans so much that they also put their own money into them. They don't do that if they think they're planning for the stage, which doesn't pay off. Those plans have put thousands and thousands of people in a better position. Now I come to the proposal of the SP. I have just expressed my surprise in an interruption that the SP did not make that proposal when the law on the low-income benefit was dealt with on an annual basis over EUR 500 million. The only thing the SP Group did at that time was to put forward a proposal that, if it had been adopted, would have made it possible, for example, to reduce the amount of money that would go to the social workshops, which would need that money very much to conclude a proper collective agreement. I haven't seen this plan yet, other than in a newspaper article. I do not know where Mr Ulenbelt is going to get the 500 million from now, because the moment to settle that is a little bit over. But it will take more than 500 million, because in addition to the €13,500 per place, which the SP fraction calculates, a further €12,500 will be added to benefits to get that income. So I think Mr Ulenbelt is too late with his plan, but I would like to look forward to a further answer. Then we'll always look at it. However, this moment is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u404	The tax plan isn't at all sure yet. There's plenty more to come. Mr. Kerstens says you're late. For good plans, you'll never be late. At the very least, Mr Kerstens agrees with me. If the Tax Plan fails, let him take a good look at it, then we can offer people a concrete perspective. After all, the Minister himself said that these sectoral plans were not intended to create jobs. With the SP coming up with a plan for jobs, the Labour Party says we're late. No, Mr. Christmas, it's never too late for good plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u405	Once again, I do not think that the sectoral plans have given people any perspective. I have to think of a broadcast of Newshour from previous weather, in which some of our colleagues said something about the sector plans and in which a construction worker was also staged who was actually happy about it, because he had his job to thank for it. Today I have also seen reports from the paint industry about the sector plans. As far as I am concerned, the EUR 500 million spent on the low income advantage, which the Chamber has said yes to in a large majority, is also well spent. This will create real jobs and, at the same time, reduce labour costs in the social workshops sector. This reduction can be spent on a decent collective agreement. Mr Ulenbelt agrees with me that people in the social workplace are entitled to this. The Tax Plan itself was also discussed in the Lower House. That was adopted by a majority. It's in the First Chamber now. I don't think there's another 500 million euro plan in the First Chamber. We believe, with trade unions, that the tax plan in the Upper Chamber should be adopted. If there is yet another opportunity for good plans, we are happy to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u406	Mr Ulenbelt, I see that you are irritated about the length of the answers. In view of the time we all have left to go, I think it would be wise for everyone taking part in this debate to be limited. Mr Van Weyenberg, I challenge you. Short, pointy questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u407	I expected Mr Mulder to respond to the big words about the sector plans. I thought "now he's coming," but he's obviously decided to sit. It's okay. I'll do it. I have one point. I think Mr Kerstens is too optimistic. If you're freeing 600 million for sector plans and there's over 400 million on the shelf, can't Mr. Kerstens be satisfied with that? Certainly not if we catch the construction, a sector that Mr Kerstens knows well. A study by the Court of Auditors shows that part of the money was not spent because the crisis remained and that much else would have been coughed up by the social partners themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u408	I have done nothing more and nothing less than respond to the very negative tone on the sector plans. I've been trying to narrow that down a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u409	And now the answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u410	That was the answer. I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u411	Mr President, I am glad that it was not my fault that I thought it was not an answer. So I'm just gonna try it again. 400 million out of 600 million are still on the shelf. Isn't that what Mr. Kerstens is disappointed about, like me? Just let him admit it. The fact is that in construction, because the recovery remained out, the crisis plan money was not fully spent. And Mr Kerstens cannot be satisfied with the fact that the Court of Auditors' investigation shows that a large part of the money was paid for by public funds that otherwise had been paid by the collective agreement fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u412	Mr. Kerstens, excuse me. It was a nice, short answer just now. Hold that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u413	I think I should devote two more sentences to this in order to satisfy Mr Van Weyenberg. Of course, I would have liked to have seen a larger share of the sector plan money go up to giving people more perspective. By the way, a lot of sector plans are still in progress. I am not very impressed by the remark that the government's money has taken place in cases that would otherwise have been picked up by the social partners. That was one of the key ideas of the sector plans: add money so that more money is available for the activities. I talked about the fact that municipalities should be able to provide good customization for people who depend on benefits. In fact, it is one of the reasons for putting the implementation of the Participation Act in their hands. They are closest to their inhabitants and should know who they are, what they can do, what they want and what it takes to get there, and therefore have to deliver customization. However, we all know the examples in which there is too little respect or customisation. It is often a question of abuses which have existed for many years and which are being blamed for the new law, which only entered into force on 1 January. Think of the situation in a number of municipalities in the Achterhoek, where beneficiaries had to fold paper flowers for four years without getting anything out of it. That is not the fault of the new law, but it must put an end to it. Customisation, i.e. taking personal circumstances into account, is the main issue in the new law. It is time for all the municipalities to deliver on this point. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is prepared to be firmer than hitherto towards municipalities that are not doing well in this respect. From The Hague, where we are system responsible, we must ensure that this law, like all other laws, is implemented in letter and spirit. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is on our side, and with that on the side of the people who are involved, and what initiatives we may expect from her in this area. Should they not come, is she sympathetic to such initiatives from the Chamber? Assuming one's own responsibility, without this becoming a "pick out for yourself" but also taking into account one's personal circumstances, that applies not only to the Participation Act, but also to the integration debate in the Netherlands, for example. Helping someone, but also asking someone to make an effort of their own, is at the forefront of the Labour Party's integration debate. We do not build a wall around the Netherlands, but expect everyone to do their best to be part of it, to be part of our society and to be part of it, with the corresponding values that we take for granted, such as freedom, equality and self-determination. We do not accept that these values are being violated. Although after the recent attacks in Paris it was mainly a question of whether one or two attackers were part of the current flow of refugees I understand that question it was at least as important for me to realize that the vast majority of the attackers grew up here in Western Europe. Timely integration of people who come to the Netherlands and are allowed to stay here, participate in and participate in our society, is therefore of great importance. The Labour Party therefore supports the attitude of the cabinet in this regard, which was reiterated in the letter of 27 November last, whose rapid and serious commitment to integration is the core, as we call it, of a warm heart and a cool head.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u414	The Labour Party came into the cabinet three years ago to provide jobs. Three years later, the result is 101,000 unemployed. We've never had so many older people in the WW. One in five households have problematic debts. The VVD gives an incompetence, your colleague Marcouch calls the Minister "naïve," Mr Rottenberg has failed to keep the Minister on the shield. The minister's gone wild. How do you think this minister can live up to your ambitions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u415	I started my speech with one of our main points: to focus on a decent labour market. I have mentioned a number of things which the Minister has set in motion from the Labour Party, with the support of your party and a large part of the Chamber. Regardless of whether it concerns the Law approach to bogus constructions, the Work and Security Act, that are all merits of this cabinet which brings decent work closer. In your question about the number of jobs, you forgot to mention that we came from the deepest, the hardest, longest crisis after the 1930s. In the meantime, more jobs are being created each time. My colleague Mrs Vermeij mentioned the number of 138 000 over the past year. These are more jobs than they have been in all the years since 2008. The fact that the increase in the number of jobs does not run one-on-one with the fall in unemployment has several causes. One of these causes is that people who had turned away from the labour market because they thought that there was no chance for them, are now returning to the job market. Or employers who, by attracting the economy, carefully gave people jobs for a number of hours, which people first give more hours before hiring other people. As far as we are concerned, of course, unemployment still has to be reduced a bit, but it is not the case that there have been no jobs. Those jobs are definitely gonna add up. As far as we are concerned, it should be more decent jobs, from flex jobs to jobs with more perspective. We see that in industry, for example, it is also happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u416	The Labour Party is the party of explaining. That's what they get: you have to explain. But isn't it time after three years to be critical, even to your own people, even to your own rulers? In 2012, at the height of the crisis, we had 516.000 unemployed. Three years later we have 100 000 more, while the economy in Germany and Belgium is improving and there are fewer unemployed there. Now there's a minister here who doesn't even trust the coalition partner. And Mr Kerstens must now even defend this minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u417	It is not the case that, as I see from Mr Öztürk's words, we should suddenly become critical of this minister and other ministers after three years. We have been since day one, because for us more jobs and decent work is a spearhead. I just mentioned the Law Approach Fake Constructions. It wasn't in the coalition agreement. We have insisted on this. That's how we do it. I have mentioned a whole list of points that I would like to see realised. That's how we do it from day one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u418	Yesterday or the day before yesterday, the Minister came again with a declaration of participation. By doing so, newcomers must declare that they stand for the basic values of freedom: freedom of expression, freedom to choose your own partner, self-determination, so that you decide what you are or what you believe, whether you believe or not. It is the Labour Party that initially wanted to remove the segregation and integration obstacles, but this minister himself sets a bad example by working with the countries of origin and primordial organizations in the Netherlands with a view to integrating Dutch people of, for example, Turkish or Moroccan origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u419	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u420	Does Mr Kerstens share my view that, if you want to introduce this crediblely at all, you will have to set an example yourself and that you should stop working together, focus on combating segregation and take the right of self-determination as a starting point rather than handing you over to clubs of this kind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u421	I would like to repeat Mr Heerma's words: we have a minister here who, in my opinion, shows day in and day out that he stands for these values, a minister who not only conveys these values in words, but also in deeds. As far as the countries mentioned by Mrs Karabulut are concerned, I understand from her own contribution that we are talking about Turkey and Morocco, for example, we believe that it is precisely with those countries or organisations that it will help us to keep an eye on them, to continue to promote our values and to continue to challenge their values, if they are different. We think that is better than turning our backs on them and not seeing what happens. Moreover, as far as Turkey is concerned, there are other reasons why we should continue to talk to that country; think about the refugee issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u422	What stone did Mr. Kerstens lie under? I'm not talking about the minister. I'm talking about the Labour Party. If he says he stands for these freedoms, it is contrary to the cooperation for the integration of Dutch people with Turkish or Moroccan origins with governments that do not respect self-determination. What do you mean, freedom of speech? Journalists are thrown into prison. And those clubs that operate here in the Netherlands really don't stand for homo-emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u423	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u424	Doesn't that have to be broken in order to be credible at all? Or does Mr Kerstens say: no, we are going to perpetuate this segregation and that parallel society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u425	I thought Mrs Karabulut's question was another one, namely the question of which stone I was under. I know that Mrs Karabulut sometimes gets a little creepy when the answer given doesn't like her. I haven't been under any rock. She can see from my answer that we agree with the Minister's attitude in this regard. She has to assume from me that she also knows that the Dutch government, for example, appeals to that country when a Dutch journalist is arrested in Turkey. You can't do that unless you're talking to a country like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u426	Everyone's getting a little creepy. I realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u427	I'm not freaking out at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u428	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u429	No, but we're just gonna move on to the next question. You have asked two long questions in this interruption, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman, who has been waiting for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u430	I would like to comment on the statement of participation. The cabinet proposes mandatory introduction. Now we have had a debate on this before, last year or a year and a half ago. Then the minister said he was going to run a pilot in five municipalities. However, it is already mandatory to introduce this declaration of participation. How does the PvdA Group stand in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u431	We look forward to seeing the Minister's experience in the places where the participation declaration has been tested. I have heard some positive noises about this myself, but our basic attitude, like last year, is that we see the declaration of participation as a good, important part of the government's policy on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u432	The evaluation is now in place. This shows that integration is the least conducive to the declaration of participation. What does help is actively giving information and welcoming people. Wouldn't it be better to bet on that and not on something purely cosmetic as a statement of participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u433	I think it goes here: if you do one, you don't have to leave the other. We also consider the other issues mentioned by Mrs Voortman to be important. That is what we are committed to. For example, she was able to see this in the refugee letter 'I call him that of the cabinet of 27 November. There are also those other elements in it. At the heart of this is the need to start integration and participation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u434	A colleague of Mr Kerstens said that learning the language should start as soon as possible, starting from day one. In fact, the cabinet does not mention this in its letter. It says: we don't start with the language until people are status holders. Does the PvdA still think that from day one, if these people enter the country, we should start with the language? If so, how are we going to achieve that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u435	If I have read the letter correctly, and I have done so, I am sure Mr Sjoerdsma is also saying something about learning the Dutch language, but also about getting acquainted with Dutch values and standards by people who have come to the Netherlands and are not yet status holders. If you come into a shelter, for example, you will also see a lot of volunteers who, in cooperation with the Centraal Body, are actually already starting to get used to our Dutch language and our standards and values from day one. Well, let it be day four when the first crisis shelter is over. If we can build that up, of course we want to think about it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u436	The latter is important, because the cabinet actually says in the letter that it has the COA examine whether it is possible, within the budgetary framework, to give those language lessons at all. And if that's possible, we can expect the results of the investigation in a few months' time. I would like to see, also in view of the earlier attitude of the Labour Party, that we move together in this process and deliver on the outstretched hand that Mr Kerstens just offered. I would like to see us indeed starting from day one and asking this Minister to make a commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u437	I have just indicated that the letter also mentions examples of the ways in which language is actually used from day one and the way in which Dutch society is introduced. This may not happen in the way it happens after someone has been given a status, but the core thing is that we start integration as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u438	In our neighborhoods and neighbourhoods, especially in The Hague, Amsterdam and Utrecht but also in medium-sized cities, there is more and more segregation. Children of Dutch descent and children of migrants born and raised here go to separate schools. I went to Molenbeek the other day. I was deeply saddened, because the situation there is even worse. Does Mr Kerstens share my view that political policy must be against segregation and for living together? In other words, should we not allow people, especially the new groups of migrants, to live as widely as possible? This should not be forced to do so, but by creating opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u439	I believe that this can indeed be part of successful integration. In my view, it is now mainly up to the municipalities to do something about education, about the black, white and mixed schools. I think a lot of municipalities have that very clear on the retina. Under the influence of the current situation, they may get it even sharper on their retina. If the letter from the cabinet makes a firm commitment to integrating and participating as quickly as possible, I think that many municipalities, reading that letter, are considering very carefully what that means for them in terms of social housing or education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u440	Unfortunately, this is not always the case, just because there are not always the practical possibilities. Many municipalities, but certainly also parents, want to be supported by the Minister and the Chamber if they themselves take the initiative to get schools mixed. Does Mr Kerstens at least support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u441	I have to think about the exact way in which Mrs Karabulut put this question. We are not indifferent to it. I would also like to hear from the Minister what possibilities he sees for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u442	Mr. Chairman. The crisis leaves deep tracks. Recent figures show that one in nine children grow up in poverty. These figures remain worrying. At the PvdA's insistence, an additional 100 million has been made structurally available to support municipalities in the fight against poverty. Also the implementation of the motion of myself, which regulates the encouragement of municipalities to include child packages in the poverty policy, has been well taken up by the Secretary of State. Research shows that the integrated approach can do better, as well as the range among the children who need this package. How will the Secretary of State continue to address these bottlenecks together with VNG? There are plenty of shrilling examples. Think of parents who can't afford to let their kids work out. However, this is essential for equal opportunities and healthy development. Parents meet on the sports field and children become friends for life. Sports connects. That is why my colleague Tjeerd van Dekken and I have tabled an amendment to make sports possible for even more children. In 2016 and 2017 we do this for another 25,000 children. This is how we give every child equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u443	It is a sympathetic amendment, but is it not a cigar from your own box if you simply take it out of the welfare budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u444	I think it is important to focus welfare or poverty policies specifically on children. This seems to me to be the best prevention against the generation-to-generation transition from poverty to poverty. That is why we make this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u445	Before that, we had a proposal from the Cabinet for a child package for children in poverty. That went from 300,000 to 400,000. Despite the efforts of the Secretary of State, that has not helped. Then 2.5 million is a very small, almost symbolic amount. How about we get the 800 million for the highest income from the Tax Plan out of that and give it to the families where children grow up in poverty? Look, it's ticking. You're gonna do something about poverty. That's not a tip. This is a bit symbolic, isn't it? Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u446	I find it quite a lot that the SP symbolically calls it letting 25,000 children participate more in sport and play. Sports and games fraternize, connect and make that children can have a much healthier development. Any child who can do this thanks to government policies or help from others, is beautiful again. 25,000 more kids I wouldn't trivialize. Your question is, of course, whether we do not want to do any more. Of course. I will come back to that later in my text. Then I'll make my own proposals. If you have any proposals and motions of your own, I will look into them too, and we will be able to judge them later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u447	Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u448	Mrs Yücel says she comes up with more proposals, so I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u449	Mr. Chairman. Too many people in the Netherlands are in debt. It is difficult for people to participate if they are worried if they can still pay the rent and if there is food on the table that night. People who are most vulnerable are pushed further into the swamp. Unfortunately, the government, unintentionally, is pushing people under. The Christmas tree of debt relief and collection practices has been rigged in all these years with lots of Christmas balls, too many lights and too much colour. It is not funny, as my colleagues have said several times. An integrated and effective approach appears to be lacking or insufficient. This is a bad thing. We are therefore asking for a map of how debt relief and collection practices work across the board. An expert team should also be able to develop alternative approaches. How effective is our policy? Don't the costs outweigh the benefits? How does the Secretary of State view this? Customization and personal contact at an early stage can ensure that towering debts are avoided at a later stage. We would therefore like the Secretary of State to focus more on customization and personal contact for all those who are in debt. The entire chain of debts of the municipality, state government, CJIB, DUO, the Tax Administration, health insurance companies and companies must be taken into account. We look forward to the national debt collection vision, but even now there is room for improvement. What are the possibilities of having national authorities, companies and other organisations contact a debtor personally within the payment period of 14 days, before making legal increases and collection costs? Does the Secretary of State see a role for the district teams in this? The PvdA is also deeply concerned about the increase in young people's debt. This group is particularly vulnerable. It is important that it can quickly focus on a promising future. Their responsibilities are great: going to school, paying for health insurance, the cost of the mobile phone, housing, and so I can go on for a while. Grant schemes for national projects should be targeted at this group. We will ask the Secretary of State to move to open the grant schemes in 2016 and 2017 and to focus on projects aimed at improving the reach of children in poverty and more tailor-made work for young people. For example, we are contributing to the fact that children can participate more and young people can continue to build their future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u450	This could indeed be a proposal to combat child poverty. In many municipalities there is a budget for this purpose, but it is a problem to find the children that it is about, because people have to appeal to it themselves, I understand. I will propose later to increase the possibilities for category assistance for families in the assistance. How would the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u451	I believe that we have abolished the category aid because, according to some, it seems to fall under income policy. What matters to me is that we achieve children in poverty well. Earmarks and local income policy can't be, but I'd be happy to join you in looking for what can be done. You want children to be better achieved, and so do I. I will be very happy to continue thinking with you about how we can improve that range.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u452	We can have income policy, but the VVD doesn't want it. If the Labour Party wants it, there is a majority to enable category assistance for children. I think this is the best way to find those kids. Then we can just say: this is a family with children who are on welfare, so that gets budget for a winter coat or for a sports subscription or for something else that children need. You'll have a lot less bureaucracy, you'll find those kids right away, and the money won't stay on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u453	If we can't do it right, we'll do it left. That is why we have tabled motions on children's packages and on neighbourhood teams. If you get to those families where sometimes there are multi-problems, you can get poverty and debt relief much sooner on the retina. So you can quickly provide help, act preventively and spend the national jars focused on children and young people. We will therefore do everything we can to ensure that this money, including the additional structural amount of EUR 100 million, is made available to children in particular. In that fight, Mrs. Voortman and I are really standing side by side. Young people must always be able to attend education. Too often we hear that this is not possible for young people in debt, because they have to provide an income to be admitted to a debt relief process. The school then comes to the second plan. However, young people who choose to go to school do not come out of debt. Can the Secretary of State, together with the VNG, allow young people without an income to be admitted to an adequate, solution-oriented debt relief process and at the same time simply to finish their school? Combating poverty is important to avoid division. My colleague, Mr Vermeij, mentioned earlier the importance of preventing division. From a young age investing in young children also contributes to the prevention of this division. In doing so, the ability to combine work and care is very important. The way we organise our lives and that of our families is in full development. Politics must do its best to do so. Modern life is ultimately designed at the kitchen table and on the workplace, but the government can create the conditions to make a good, healthy combination of work and care for family, family and friends more possible. The PvdA fights for a fair division of work and care and time for each other, for everyone. This offers opportunities for young children to develop well, with the attention of both parents. It also offers opportunities for employers, as it improves working conditions for workers with young children and for working sons and daughters who care for their sick mother, neighbor, neighbor or father. It also reduces the risk of work-related complaints. This reduces absenteeism, reduces stress, prevents burnouts and makes better use of all talents. The cabinet has taken very nice steps in this regard. Leave arrangements have been modernised and extended. Father's leave is extended from two paid days to five paid days, i.e. one working week. There has been substantial extra money invested in childcare, which has made it cheaper for parents. 60 million extra has become available to municipalities to provide a few day care facilities to all toddlers. Not only is money invested in young children, but also the quality of childcare is being worked on. For example, following a commitment to the PvdA, educational child development goals in childcare are being developed. The new supervision is also coming. These are investments that matter, for all people who want to combine work and care more easily in their daily lives and for all children. This is the starting point for the PvdA Group: investing in young children. From that perspective, with a large part of the Chamber, we wholeheartedly support initiatives leading to integrated child provision for children from 0 to 12 years of age. I am talking about initiatives from the bottom up, in the interests of a lot of young children. One location, one team, one educational program, teaching during the lesson, sport, creativity and play at the reception: all coordinated. These initiatives have arisen in many places in the Netherlands. Last Friday I went to a forerunner in this field, Laterna Magica in Amsterdam. This is an integral child centre in which the school, the extracurricular care and childcare of young children go together. I saw high-quality pedagogical staff, passion for the development of children, parents who were very happy and happy children. The PvdA wants this to be available in every neighbourhood and every village for parents who want it in ten years' time. We therefore want to help these initiatives further. I ask the Cabinet, together with colleagues in this Chamber, to remove all unnecessary bureaucracy and thresholds and to allow for care and education from one IKC organisation and in cooperation with various organisations in many more places in our country. I would also ask you to examine the possibilities and opportunities for a legal anchoring of the integrated child centres. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister about modernised leave arrangements. Research shows that leave arrangements are not sufficiently well known. Even after the campaign and the implementation of the earlier motion, they are probably still not sufficiently well known, because we are constantly getting signals that they are not yet being used sufficiently. That's too bad. Can the Minister explain why this is happening? What further can the cabinet do to improve this, possibly in cooperation with the social partners? Action points may also be highlighted in the ESC opinion in this area. What is the situation with regard to the ESC opinion? What's the schedule and when do we get the first reports? We look forward very much to that opinion, as well as to the debate that we can have in the Chamber on the basis of this opinion and my own own own own initiative paper in the process Time for each other on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u454	Mr Öztürk has been standing for so long, so I am the first to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u455	Mrs Yücel mentioned a division in income, but there is also a division in ethnicity and faith. There is a huge Islamophobia in the Netherlands, with a lot of Muslim discrimination. What does the Labour Party think of this, and what has it done in the last three years to tackle the division in these areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u456	It is very special that Mr Öztürk asks me what I think of this division. In my opinion, he knows more than anyone that I have made that parallel society very clear at the time I spoke about integration. It has both socio-economic and socio-cultural characteristics, too often along ethnic divisions for me. I think that's a bad thing. That is why it is very important to encourage language, participation, sharing essential values, so living together, over and over again. I note that the Minister's agenda in the field of integration is focused on this. We very much support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u457	More than three years ago, Mrs Yücel campaigned with her fellow party members in a mosque in Zaandam, in the beautiful hall there, with snacks and drinks and beautiful PvdA flags. A few months later, her minister had to monitor, investigate and put in a corner the same mosques where you campaigned, raised voices and told beautiful stories. Don't you think that's hypocritical?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u458	The Labour Party is for freedom, equality and equal opportunities, over and over again. Whether it's from cultural backgrounds or beliefs and whether it's from a Christian or Islamic angle, I don't care, but we will always fight inequality, freedom and unequal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u459	The Netherlands has made a reservation to the Children's Rights Convention, so that children are not entitled to social security on their own. As a result, home evictions and that sort of thing. Would the Party of Action support our proposal for that reservation... What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u460	Party of Action; a nice compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u461	I would say: then make it tonight and support at least the proposal we have made to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u462	I read your proposal with interest in the paper. Your colleague and Mrs Voortman have written a piece about this. I'll definitely look into it. When it comes to the idea that we should not leave children in poverty and that we should continue to offer them every opportunity to participate and to work on their future in order to prevent poverty from going from generation to generation, we stand side by side. I do not know at the moment whether this proposal to ratify that part of the treaty will contribute anything. Right now, I don't actually have the information complete. That's why I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's opinion first. When I read the piece, I did think: children cannot ask for social benefits themselves, such as a welfare allowance or a roof over their head, because that is what the parents, guardians and so on do. So I wonder how that works in practice. So I'm going to look very closely at it, but I can't say in advance whether I can support it because I don't know if this means bringing us closer to the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u463	Look, look, look, that's great, but when you're in action, you're gonna buy, buy, buy. The government will undoubtedly respond. She has already said that she does not want to do so, but the people who are involved in this are right to refer to Mrs Karabulut's article and Mrs Voortman's saying that it does help. So I say sign and remove that waiver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u464	The proposal comes from Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Voortman. That is why I will look very seriously at this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u465	I am glad that at least the proposal is being taken seriously. But of course there is more fundamental behind this, namely that the Netherlands as a country says: this one child's right, we do not do that for a while. I'd like to know what she thinks about the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u466	I didn't know we had decided that in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u467	I was very stunned, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u468	When I read it, I thought, "Hey, that's weird. I want to know more about this. And that's exactly my point right now. I would very much like to know from the Secretary of State why we have not approved this in the past. After that, I can only make a final judgment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u469	I, too, was stunned when I heard this. I thought that children's rights in the Netherlands were just guaranteed. The fact that we are the only countries that do not guarantee this right is too absurd for words. I regret, in fact, that Mrs Yücel does not have that point of principle. In practice, for example, these are children whose parents are not entitled to assistance, e.g. parents without residence status. In that situation it is now true that such a child cannot call for assistance. I assume that the PvdA also believes that in these cases a child should certainly be entitled to assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u470	As I pointed out, we need to ensure that all children can grow up healthy and continue to participate in building a promising future. So that's where we're just side by side. I will look very seriously at the proposals, but I am also very interested in the answers from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u471	I have a question about the parent participation crèches. It has been discussed at the PvdA Congress and I think Mrs Yücel has also visited the parent participation crèches. In the light of this discussion, I am curious to see what she saw and what her picture is of it, how she looks at the research that the Minister has announced on the quality of those parent participation crèches and how she looks at the possibility of making childcare allowances possible there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u472	Yes, I've been there for a visit. By the way, that visit was planned for our congress but because of circumstances it is resistance. I am actually very positively surprised, in the sense that parents who run those day-pieces there do so with full conviction and with great enthusiasm and passion. And that does something to kids, too. So that was a really nice insight I got there. For me, it remains important not to reason from the parents but from the interests of children when it comes to the quality of childcare. That is exactly what the debate is about, including in previous debates in the Chamber. According to the quality criteria, they do not meet the standards, but they say they do. I think it is a good proposal from the Minister to get out of this well-being situation by allowing the quality to be objectively determined by means of research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u473	An alternative quality framework has been created. This allowed the tolerance status to disappear. If the research and the alternative framework show that the quality is good, should Mrs Yücel say that childcare allowance should be possible, including for parental participation crèches?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u474	I think that research is going to focus on what one wants to achieve with the fixed-face criteria, namely safety and healthy social-emotional development of children. If it turns out that the concept of parental participation crèches also offers sufficient quality, I think that an important part of the arguments for not including it in the childcare allowance will disappear. Only the sensitivity to fraud is still a point. We can investigate further how to combat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u475	Mr Van Weyenberg, this will be your thirteenth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u476	Yes, Mr President, it is an important debate. It was not my choice to start this debate so late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u477	It's your choice to let it go on for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u478	As you rightly said, seven to eight hours of pure speaking time is reserved for this debate, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u479	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u480	I will ask a very short question. I can only assume that the research that is being carried out does not attempt to put parental participation crèches past an impossible measuring bar. I am thinking, for example, of the fixed-face rule. Then we don't have to get started. The aim is whether good quality is offered in the interests of children? In my view, the supervisory authorities have so far said that this is the case. If that is all right, Mrs Yücel's line is that she no longer has any fundamental resistance to childcare allowances for this group. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u481	I'll start with that last one. I have never had a fundamental resistance to the child care allowance for parent participation crèches. It's a very sympathetic concept, so I really struggled with this. But on the child care dossier, I really let myself be guided. I believe in all sincerity that colleagues do the same because of the importance of children. I very much believe in the fixed face criterion as a tool for security and healthy social-emotional development. If research shows that, because of the pluses that a parent participation nursery concept has, the quality, the outcome, the outcome, is actually equally good, there are no objections. I assume that the research will focus on this and that the number of fixed faces will not be counted, because we do know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u482	Mr. Chairman. I'll try to get on with it a little bit, because we have a long way to go, as you said. A social implosion threatens the Netherlands. It was once set in motion by the purple Cabinets and the Cabinets-Balkenende and is now finally made by Minister Asscher and Secretary of State Klijnsma, who are sitting next to me in trade-K. The WW has been shortened. Pensioners' purchasing power has fallen by around 17% in recent years and will continue to decline. The socialist job plans have already been discussed this evening; the PVV is the only one who has been against this ever since. That terrible Quotum law has been introduced. Abuse of assistance is hardly being addressed. There are no strict language requirements for welfare workers. The number of permanent jobs has fallen below 5 million. The Work and Security Act has ensured that more people are out of work and that permanent employment has been replaced by flexible smaller jobs and cover work. 300,000zzp'ers have to eat dry bread. The definition of unemployment has been relaxed and yet unemployment is rising. Count out your winnings. This was just a selection; there is no end to all misery. More and more people who have invested in their families and their living environment, but do not live in the Randstad, for example, where "Frankfurt" raises house prices, are now experiencing a decline in the value of their homes. They face long-term unemployment because it has become easier to steer older workers off the road. As the WW has been reduced, they will be accelerated in the assistance. Always working hard, raising children properly, getting them trained, spared them, to invest in a bright future, in and for the Netherlands, but thanks to this cabinet they are left behind with a residual debt without a job, with no money and more and more often with an asylum seekers' centre or a mosque around the corner. More and more with unemployed immigrants in the street, who receive free benefits. Never worked for it. Migrants who do not tolerate women behind the cash register, migrants who make the original population replace them more and more quickly and who export benefits to Islamic countries. Which eventually wipe out our values, values and culture like snow for the sun. Integration? Whoa, whoa, whoa, Assimilation? That's a dirty word here in the Chamber. Easiness with spirit builds houses like castles. The Netherlands was so beautiful, but that is broken, partly thanks to the mass immigration. The future image under Minister Asscher is ink black for the Netherlands, but also ink black. Close borders and burden relief would help our own people, but over the last two years, Minister Asscher and his ministry have destroyed more than EUR 600 million to supposedly help people get to work. The only person who got a job was indeed the Ambassador Youth unemployment. Despite the criticism that some parties now have, for years we as PVV mother soul were alone in our criticism of the socialist job plans of left-wing Louis. Have the plans helped the Netherlands, I ask the Minister. But we'll know the answer after tonight. I am going to give part of the answer myself, because the job plans of this minister have indeed helped the Netherlands, but then into the swamp. Everything in this cabinet needs to be fluid and flexible, from culture, from borders to contracts of employment. No one is any more sure is the only certainty this minister gives the Netherlands. It really is a social disaster that is unprecedented in history, which is being caused. I therefore challenge the Minister to reflect on the ruins of three years of Asscher. I would also like to hear the Minister tell us how many migrants in the Netherlands ultimately add economic value. How many are ultimately economically active? In other words, how many active migrants really make a living, instead of having a benefit or a subsidised job or a public service? For the Dutch, whose boundless solidarity is being demanded, must cough up the money for the immigration records. They deserve openness, openness about where their money is going. Where's it going? I'd like some clarity from the Secretary of State. Part of the answer has already been given by the Minister himself, because part of the money goes to a pharmacist from Aleppo, who comes here to take the job of a Dutch pharmacist. For a reason, there is a numerus fixus at the universities for pharmacy training. But also, of course, to all those very large groups of asylum seekers and status holders that we have often talked about. Those people get paid, they get priority over rental homes, they get free medical care, they get free to school, they get free transportation, they get accelerated integration courses, they get free living money and then complain about too few TVs and bad Wi-Fi. And of course, the last few PvdA voters also give them free hugs. Others get almost everything for free. Does the Minister recognize that? I was talking about the future, but the past predicts, given benefits and the like, disaster for the Netherlands. The massive influx of people from Syria, Somalia, Eritrea, Iraq and Afghanistan from the 1990s is reflected in the statistics on assistance. 68.9% of Somalis are in the assistance, 62.2% of Syrians, 57.9% of Iraqis, 50.2% of Eritreans and 46% of Afghans in the Netherlands are in the assistance, compared with only 2% of Dutch, some of whom are even thanks to Rutte II, thanks to the shorter WW. Where did the current asylum seekers come from? Exactly, from the countries I just mentioned. As I said, others get everything for free, but there is no free one, because on the other hand the Dutch elderly are being robbed. If it's not on the street, at the ATM, it's the government. Older people are hit hard by the absence of indexation on their pensions. As I said, up to 17% of them have lost their purchasing power over the last ten years. Why does this cabinet hate our elders? Why the hate for the elderly? Why is care taken away and retirement severely reduced? Can the Secretary of State explain that to us again tomorrow in her term? For the Dutch there is a different reality from that of immigrants. A fifth of the Dutch, that's how we read Sunday, has long outstanding accounts because they can't afford them anymore. Almost 40% of Dutch people have undergone changes in the labour market. That is often not a positive change. Almost half of the people indicate that they have become less confident about the maintenance of their jobs. I would like clarification from Minister and Secretary of State on this. Who works for who in the Netherlands? Or, as it was called when the Netherlands was still the Netherlands: to what extent can someone in the Netherlands keep the fruit of their own labor? The tax burden is huge. Everything, from cradle to grave, is groomed by the government and Dutch feel increasingly slave to the Tax Administration. Finally, mass immigration must be paid for. Again: who works for who in the Netherlands? It's not like Secretary of State and Secretary of State doesn't get a chance to show who they're standing up for. Except they make the wrong choice every time. Let me refer the main choice of this debate to the Minister. He followed his colleague Dijsselbloem who said on Saturday: "The whole idea of the social welfare state is challenged. That's why you have no choice but to protect the external borders."? So not the border between Overijssel and Gelderland, but the external borders. Or does he choose open borders, i.e. mass immigration of people from Islamic countries and ultimately social impoverishment, decay and impoverishment? Integration is also one of the spearheads of this ministry. The PVV always pleads for assimilation, because why should Dutch people representing the leading Jewish-Christian, humanist culture have to adapt to people coming here? Yet some of the Dutch have the remarkable talent to give away what is their own, a piece of their own identity, so easily, nurtured by political correctness and cultural relativism. I'll give you a few preliminarys. Last January, a school director has the cover of the weekly magazine Charlie Hebdo removed from the classroom and reprimands the teacher who put it up. Minister Bussemaker says teachers in communication with Muslim students should be assisted by Islamic clergy. An Amsterdam PvdA district chairman wants free language lessons in mosques and says that we need to deal with the separation between religion and state a little relaxed. In June, with the agreement of Minister Asscher, the Moroccan government sends 53 imams to the Netherlands who come to teach theological lessons in mosques. The first Mosque Square is opened in Utrecht. At a school in The Hague, children learn to pray Islamically. There is compulsory halal eating at more and more school camps because a large majority adapts to the demands of a small minority in the classroom. VVD'er Joris Voorhoeve starts with free Arabic lessons at the Hague University of Applied Sciences, because this is in line with the demand. And these are just the examples that make the news. A culture that is tolerant to intolerance and a culture that promotes that all cultures are equal, a culture that is open to everything that goes against one's own culture, that culture ultimately makes no demands on newcomers. That culture does everything. This culture does not defend itself and imports on a large scale crime, early school leaving, hatred of everything that is Western and benefit dependency. That's why such a culture is doomed to perish. But time can still be turned around by focusing on assimilation, closing the borders, and making demands on people who are already here. Force acceptance of our Western norms, values and culture. For example, give people outside the EU the right to social security only if they have worked here for 10 years and have not committed a crime for 10 years. Make sure that people participate in the further building of the Netherlands in a culture where freedom is at the top and where hatred of non-believers, women, gays and so on does not belong. Why does the Minister give the integration gift to asylum seekers who pass the integration course within the prescribed period? That's where the giveaway begins. That is where the Minister, on behalf of the Netherlands, is forcing no respect. How much of the costs does the Minister actually intend to recover from those who do not complete integration in time? How does the Minister intend to teach people Dutch? By unqualified fake teachers, as is already happening? I think there's an interruption coming, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u483	I just wanted to wait for you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u484	I keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u485	You said it. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u486	There is now a lot of talk about what integration means. This representative of the PVV even wants assimilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u487	The Count is the name.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u488	I will say "Mr De Graaf of the PVV." If Mr De Graaf expects so much from the immigrants, I do wonder why his party undermines parliamentary democracy, why his group chairman calls this Parliament a fake parliament, why his party puts pressure on the independent rule of law by claiming that the trial against his group chairman is a sham process. Can he explain that? Can he explain whether he himself sets an example when it comes to integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u489	Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 connects a number of things that do not have much to do with each other. On one point, a lawsuit that's still going on, I'm not gonna make any statements, not at all when it comes to a good friend. I have already explained this to him in general consultation. I don't think it's nice that he's asking the question again, because he knows what it's like. At least Mr Sjoerdsma should know that. It's just not neat. That's not how we treat each other. He asks if the PVV is setting an example. Then I say: take an example for yourself. If we have used the term 'fake parliament' once in a while, it has been to say that it has been explained ten times, but probably Mr Sjoerdsma has put putty in his ears that what is happening on the street and what the people's wishes are is not represented equally here in parliament. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u490	I can only say that Mr De Graaf wants to keep asylum seekers to the highest standards, but that his own party does not have to comply with them. I would like to give him another example. Mr De Graaf just spoke about the importance of homosexual rights. That is absolutely important. That is an integral part of the Netherlands. We're front-runners in that. Can Mr De Graaf explain to me why his party in Brussels did not vote in favour of a European action plan to combat homophobia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u491	Mr Sjoerdsma raised an old motion from two years ago. There are all very strange considerations, which are very pro-European and pro-EU. That's not what we're here for. We are dealing with the laws in the Netherlands and we are indeed ensuring that there are good gay laws here. To give another example of the good example: we are daily concerned about decapitations taking place in the Islamic world. Mr Sjoerdsma is only concerned when the counter in Saudi Arabia is above 150.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u492	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u493	No, I want to finish my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u494	This is an answer to a question that has not been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u495	It is about setting an example, and I will give you an example. I find it abject and objectionable if a representative of the people is not concerned about decapitations in another country until the counter is already at 150 and not when he is on one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u496	Mr Sjoerdsma now feels the need to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u497	Yeah, I'm sorry I feel challenged. I think I'm gonna have to straighten something out here anyway. I think that all the parties in this Chamber are taking the utmost care of countries that are carrying out the death penalty, especially when it comes to decapitations, whether it be one or five. When I proposed that there should be consequences in the form of an arms embargo, Mr De Graaf's party voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u498	I didn't hear a question. I would have stuck to the high standards you're allowed to impose on asylum seekers. It's okay. It's okay. I think it's really weird if you don't. I forgot that part. I apologise to Mr Sjoerdsma for that. The pressure on our Western culture will increase even further in the coming years, just because of the coming family reunification. Mass immigration and welfare state don't mix. A culture that does not want to defend itself will cease to exist. This is a dead end that has been set in motion by the politically correct and culturally reactive elite. I'll keep it short and go to my conclusion. The Netherlands is in a negative spiral of high burdens, still many bankruptcies and unemployment, massive thus priceless immigration, insecurity through the import of terrorists, security measures that are needed, even higher burdens on the active, even more unemployment and still no closed borders. If you put your ear outside to listen, you'll notice that the population becomes demotivated. The population is increasingly wondering what it is still doing. The middle class is and is getting more and more stripped towards social underlay. Insecurity is increasing, as is the feeling of being displaced in their own city or country. But this cabinet continues to rob its own people of its values, standards, security, culture and self-esteem. We cannot be worse off: the people are mangled between the representatives of the banks and insurers on the one hand and the promoters of mass immigration and Islam on the other. With the blessing of the imperialists of the European Union. I'm afraid the worst. A social implosion threatens. If it is up to this cabinet, the population is only at the mercy of the vain hope that it will one day recover. But a human being and certainly a population cannot live on hope. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister once again: do you opt for open borders and therefore mass immigration of people from Islamic countries, which will lead us to experience social implosion, or do you close the borders today and save the social welfare state?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u499	Mr. Chairman. Three years of Asscher, three years of Klijnsma, three years of Labour Party in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. And what's the result? What are they going to mean in the next year and a half? Those are the two key questions in this budget debate. Let me start with the positive. This Minister and Secretary of State have achieved some important breakthroughs. For the first time in decades, there is a modernisation of dismissal law and the WW in the Work and Security Act. That's profit. And the same goes for the Participation Act. With the quota as a stick behind the door, there will be more jobs for people with disabilities. I also see some light in the budget we are discussing today. I'll mention the extra childcare allowance. My group would have liked to go further, but there will be extra money for childcare after years of austerity, and that is profit. There will be an extension of maternity leave. This has been advocated by many in this Chamber for a long time. It is a good thing that action has been taken. The Minister deserves a great compliment. I do have one more question about it. Why doesn't it start until summer 2017? That doesn't change the fact that I think it's a very nice step. At the same time, there are many problems. I walk by them in four blocks: unemployment, the fringes of the new laws, a number of things that are too long overdue and a lack of vision on a number of major questions for the future, where there is a standstill in the coalition and the polder. My colleague Mr Sjoerdsma will then address the issue of integration. I'll start with unemployment. The Minister's efforts to tackle this unemployment have ended in good intentions. Through the Action Plan 50Plus, 7,000 people found a job, while the goal was to help 22,000 people get a job. The result is beautiful, but disappointing. The job plans are also not going well. 70% of the plans have been delayed. In construction, the plan did not get off the ground because it was still a crisis, as the General Court wrote this spring. Of the EUR 600 million made available in difficult times, including with the support of D66, more than 400 million are still on the table today. Almost 30% of the plans show little or nothing to happen because employers and employees do not see so much in them anymore. I think the Minister is a little too easy to dismiss the criticism. He called this "too easy" yesterday. The numbers don't lie, do they? Or does the Minister deny that the targets are not being met? He does not want to deny that the 150 million budget was not used at all in the sector plans. The money that's left over now goes to the UWV. I think that is a sensible choice, at least to a large extent. However, I do wonder why it is not being used more to help older jobseekers. Shouldn't the money be more focused on that? I'd like to hear a response. If, unfortunately, the money in the fight against unemployment among the elderly has not delivered what we had hoped for, if, unfortunately, the job plans have not delivered what we had hoped for, then you have to ask yourself how this is going to be done in dealing with youth unemployment. My group is also very close to this issue. The budget shows that out of the EUR 300 million premium discount available for this purpose, less than EUR 50 million has been spent. Six times fewer young people are being helped than originally intended. Entrepreneurs also appear to have little knowledge of the scheme. Yes, Minister, it was just a small survey of Entrepreneurship Netherlands. But if I ask 30 entrepreneurs what's going on, and 30 say they don't know the arrangement, then I'm worried. Actually, I hope the Minister is, too. And why did we have to draw this up from a rule in the budget? Why wasn't the Chamber informed earlier that things weren't working out so well? Why didn't we try to take action before then? I'd like to hear an explanation from the Minister. The Minister wanted this approach to be different from the one in the past, because it was not a success. Yet here too, it may be the conclusion that it has not brought us what we had hoped for. This raises the question of whether the Minister would like to reflect again in detail what is causing it. As far as I am concerned, it is also important to think about how we are going to do this differently next time. Because once again there will be a new crisis; we know that for sure. Then we want to do something. That is right, and that is important. But also a number of instruments that have been used to tackle this crisis have not brought what we were hoping for. Would the Minister ask an independent committee to proceed with the question of what is the best way to anticipate this properly? For example, should we reserve money in good times for internships in bad times? What about the VAT in the construction that we have reduced? Was that even something that worked? What are the best ways to pull employers over in bad times? I am thinking, for example, of extra no-risk policies. These are all questions to which I do not yet know the answer. I ask the Minister to get an independent committee to work on this, also in the knowledge that there will be another crisis. There is still a lot of work to be done at the Work and Security Act. It's a good thing those laws are there, but there are rafel edges. We've already talked extensively about the seasonal work. We all understand that there is less work at a campsite in the winter. I went to work last night at maintenance companies. Then you will also hear examples in which, because of this new law, actually fewer people are employed instead of more. These examples do not include the scope for seasonal work solutions. Both in the recreational sector and in the maintenance sector, we hear that the unions do want to, but not allowed by the management of the trade union movement. Does the Minister recognize that image? Is he going to intervene if polder-prestige practical solutions stand in the way and if, for example, we do not find a solution in education around invaders in case of illness? So what's the minister gonna do? Is he prepared to allow the law to simply go back from six months to, for example, three months in sectoral collective agreements? If there are still problems, there may even be a need for legislation on seasonal work. I hope we don't have to, but I don't think we have the luxury of waiting three months with this. I have a specific question about payrollers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u500	First, Mrs Vermeij has a question, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u501	I know Mr Van Weyenberg as a careful politician. We are dealing here with a big law that entered into July 1st. I think we've already talked about raffle edges here. In fact, we've repaired everything here together. We are talking about seasonal work and we are on the road for six months now, but what is a season now? Now, suddenly, we are going to put pressure on a regulation which is related to seasonal work by talking in terms of weeks. I'm thinking in ordinary terms. Don't you need a winter and summer season to know how a law works?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u502	Mr Mulder has just asked: what has been whistled back? Now Mrs Vermeij asks: what is a season? I don't want to wait if that means that seasonal workers aren't hired now and losing their jobs when there would have been work for them otherwise. With the PvdA Group, my group has asked for solutions. In agriculture and horticulture there seems to be movement now, but not in a number of other sectors. That worries me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u503	But there's still plenty of consultation going on. You can wait for employers to sit back and not hold that discussion when they have heard a few spokesmen say: I want to know within a week or within a day! We're talking about seasonal work here. That's usually about contracts that last months. We cannot yet see how they will end or what inventive solutions will be found, including in this social dialogue. So I'm asking for some sensible notion on this huge pressure. I have also asked questions about it myself, but I find it strange that something so fundamental should be arranged in such a hurry, within 24 hours. This can also be a winter or a summer season, and we really do not know the outcome of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u504	I find this amazing, because Mrs Vermeij herself has asked us to come up with solutions quickly. I note that it is difficult or not to get off the ground in a number of sectors. I'm even getting signals that polder prestige plays a major role in that. Above all, I want this to be resolved and we must avoid it. I was at a maintenance company. That is where I saw that, because one cannot get away with it, one is setting up a broadcasting sector itself, because then you have a wider chain clause. Mrs Vermeij will also agree with me that we have not achieved our common goal by that law. Around the payroll, the minister promised that anyone with an indefinite contract would be employed by the government. At DUO we did need a motion for a resolution, but in the end we do. Chapeau! But there are still signs that for a few dozen people in the government with an indefinite payroll contract, dismissal is still very close. I am referring in particular to six payrollers at the Dutch Food and War Authority. Promise makes you guilty. I therefore expect the Minister to be able to tell us tomorrow, when we begin to do so, that he might be able to tell us that the imminent resignation of those six people has been averted and that he is taking another initiative to ensure that other government organizations are also able to deliver on the promise of a permanent job for these people. Then I'm gonna go to the Participation Act. The job agreement is in danger of getting bogged down in an excess of rules and lacks regard for practice. People with a distance from the labour market remain on the sidelines. Luckily, there's some movement. Here, I say with a wink to the Minister. The target group register of the UWV is so oppressive that too many people are rejected. The Secretary of State is going to evaluate that. I would have preferred to have seen a little more decisiveness, but I have understood to the Secretary of State that this is simply going to lead to adjustments, also in accordance with adopted motions. I am also looking at Mr Heerma. In practice, then, we will also allow wage values to be guiding in the workplace. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? So, what's going on with the government, anyway? The government has its own goals and must, of course, set a good example. The counter is now at minus 148 jobs for people with disabilities. I find that disappointing and embarrassing. I'm sure the Secretary of State agrees with me. What are we going to do to ensure that these goals are met? In addition to the problems with the new laws, there are much bigger and smaller problems. For example, I am concerned about the development of problematic debt. For one in five households this is a current risk. Not everyone is looking for help, because the threshold is often too high. Even if a debt relief process has gone through, a lot of people fall back. Is the Secretary of State seriously working on the financial window proposed by D66? What arrangements is she going to make with the municipalities, so that people in debt are better supervised and not relapsed? The number of children growing up in poverty is also increasing. I have already seen an amendment from the Labour Party. My group has also tabled an amendment to that effect. I also think that these two amendments are complementary. Our amendment is designed to provide additional support for organisations close to children, but which are national organisations. I am thinking of the Stichting Jarige Job, the Stichting Nationale Fonds Kinderhulp and the Stichting Leergeld. We are releasing EUR 5 million for this. I would like to receive a sympathetic response from the Secretary of State. With regard to the bogus structures, I am now almost traditionally calling for the capacity of the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate. Legislation doesn't help you much if you don't also ensure proper control. At the same time, there are fewer and fewer inspections every year. That is why we are tabling an amendment to allow the adoption of 35 additional inspectors. Then I'll get to the day's pay decision. The Minister is going to come up with a solution, but that's not until 2017. I must confess that I have read the letter favourably, but I still do not understand what problem the Minister wanted to solve at all with the daily wage decision. I call on him to return to the old, as advocated by the FNV. Then we can make that right quickly, so we can close this file before Christmas. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I come to the easing of the Fraud Act. This must ensure that people who are wrong are not affected, as the Council of State said. That bill would be here on June 1st, it became September, then October, but it is still not there. What's going on here? Is there a stalemate in the coalition? When's this coming? If you have a job application obligation, but you've already found a job, you have to keep applying. If you're a few weeks ahead of the start of your new job, I think it's very bureaucratic. It even yields kafkaesque situations. My group received an open application on 14 August from someone who had already started another job on 3 August. But, yeah, he had been on a benefit for the first three days, so he had to apply from the UWV in August. So while he had already started his new job, he sent an open application to my group. Is this story true and can the Minister ensure that this is a thing of the past? Because I don't think anyone has been helped with this at all. Last but not least: an agenda for the future. It's been a year and a half since we've dealt with the biggest SZW laws here. In the meantime, a kind of stalemate has occurred in the coalition, where the Party of Labour and VVD are targeting each other with mortar grenades. I see polarization in the polder but above all standstill, which does not solve big questions. The legal minimum youth wage, the elderly's unemployment, the pension system, the payment of wages in the event of illness,zzp'ers, personal training ads: there is a standstill everywhere. Even more worried I am when the WW, actually the Work and Security Act, is about to be reversed. Surely the Minister is not going to cooperate in this by declaring it universally binding? The Minister is not going to enter into agreements in collective agreements, with which those who were not involved are forced to fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u505	When a colleague talks about standstill, I always point out the following. We have recently received a rather thick and quite shocking report: the interdepartmental policy research zzp. It is about the erosion of social security, about fiscal facilitation and, ultimately, about the erosion of public finances. Mr Van Weyenberg knows my position on this. What does D66 want? D66 wants to stop: the attack is stopped, we're not gonna do anything. How can Mr Van Weyenberg blame the coalition on a point where D66 is not moving?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u506	I have Mrs Vermeij high up, but this is not her best interruption. The practice is that my group has ensured that the pension ofzzp'ers is secured when they get into the assistance. A motion has also been adopted to make it easier forzzp'ers to insure against incapacity for work. Mrs Vermeij's party also believes that this is important. Unfortunately, the Minister refuses to implement that motion. I take this opportunity to ask him again why that is. Indeed, my group is not in favour of tackling the self-employed deduction. Mrs Vermeij's group was in favour of this in the electoral programme, but Mrs Vos, MP of the Labour Party, made a big mistake in an interview. I hope Mrs Vermeij agrees with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u507	I was referring to the large army of self-employed people living at the bottom of the labour market without rights. We need to see what we can do about it and if we can get these people a permanent contract. I'm sure this report will give you a warning. I said that the reaction of the cabinet disappointed me very much, but that the movement that Mr Heerma is looking for is interesting. By the way, I do have a lot of questions about it. I have heard Mr Van Weyenberg in a general discussion. In that, he said, I'm not doing anything with this report. Is Mr Van Weyenberg saying he's gonna do something with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u508	It would be nice and adorn her if Mrs Vermeij quotes me correctly. At the heart of the matter is that my group is not in favour of commitments and such. I am happy to join Mrs Vermeij in dealing with false constructions, false self-employment, but I am not from school that when you make life more difficult for the self-employed, all permanent jobs return. This does not do justice to the wishes of the self-employed and does not help to achieve Mrs Vermeij's ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u509	Recently, D66 filed a motion in the First Chamber to achieve a more balanced relationship between employees and the self-employed. I think this is about the self-employed deduction. You can say anything about that, but that deduction does create a bit of an uneven situation between self-employed and employees. Does D66 say that it's okay to ask the cabinet to come up with a vision, but that the self-employed deduction is by definition a taboo?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u510	I have just mentioned a number of examples of situations in which self-employed people are better insured and more retired. The volunteering is very important to me. We have always said that we are okay with looking at the tax benefits, but not in the way that is meant to hitzzp'ers in their wallets. If that's what you want, make sure employees make a little more progress. I've been taking that view for months. I'd like to repeat it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u511	My question was whether the self-employed deduction for D66 is totally taboo. I have not yet received an answer: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u512	If you are going through tax reforms that have to lead to more jobs, the burden on a group of people who work hard every day and who, in the crisis, have suffered the consequences of unemployment themselves without appealing to the collective is indeed not the first thing I think of. Mr. Chairman. We've been talking about more education here for a long time. The Minister makes a lot of speeches about robots and potential dangers and says that we need to do more training. At the same time, we also see that there are 150 000 vacancies with 600,000 unemployed and that the mismatch in the labour market is now becoming fully visible. Does the Minister wish to take more action to ensure that we stop R&D funds, with which we can retrain to a sector in which there is work, and simply no longer declare them universally binding? I do not want to question the substance of the instrument, but this is, of course, just crazy. Let's just not do this anymore. Let's really make sure that these personal training ads really get there. With these jars, people can direct their careers and their education. Does the Minister intend to put his weight behind this, including in talks with social partners? This also applies to what I call the 'generation pact'. Mr Mulder was right to name a number of things that older people looking for a job do not help. For example, these are things in collective agreements, no matter how well-meaning they are, such as senior days and the development of wage scales. We can keep hammering on that, but the trade union movement doesn't like that. At the same time, we see a desire to do something about the minimum youth wage. Doesn't that kind of thing offer a chance to get out of those trenches and take steps forward together, looking for a win-win? Isn't the Minister the right person to direct much more? I would like to get a reaction to that, because there is a lot to be done about this. I agree with Mr Heerma on the taboo of emotion. Anyone who can think of a good word for that will get a bunch of flowers from me. This must be in the interests of individual workers and employers. It's all in another quadrant now. A generation pact doesn't offer that. Can and will the Minister make himself known for that? Take a serious look at the payment of wages in case of illness in 2016. How do we make hiring people more attractive again? I am concerned that too few people are employed who want to be employed, while employers want to hire those people. Look at the non-compete clause. That really isn't from this time of year. Can't we just delete that? Indeed, make sure thatzzp'ers can voluntarily insure themselves through the insurance of the UWV. As far as I am concerned, anyzzp'er should have access to it if we really want them to have more chance. I come to talk about the pension system. I expect the Secretary of State to actually get to work. When is the concrete proposal to abolish the average premium? It must not be an intention or a plan, but a concrete proposal. I would also like to ask the Minister about the child centres, which Mrs Yücel spoke about. There's still a lot of homework. Last week, the social partners officially declared the social agreement to be concluded. That was mostly repair and overdue maintenance. That is important, but it is now time to continue with innovation. Therefore, the most important question: is 2016 going to be a lost year or is the Minister going to work hard to make it work, to make sure we stop in the coalition and in the polder, and to make sure we get everyone out of the shooter pits again? Otherwise, I am afraid that in a year and a half we will say: this cabinet has begun very well and has achieved breakthroughs, but the last two and a half years, well, those were lost years anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u513	I have a very practical question. There's been a glitch at UWV all day, where people have to turn in their income because otherwise they won't get their benefits. We're worried about each other. We have also tabled a motion on this. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that in this case we should ask for a response from the Minister before the answer tomorrow to what is going on at the UWV again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u514	Mr Ulenbelt knows my concerns about what is happening there: do we have enough people and resources to achieve the goals, is the Minister enough in control and what about IT? I also read that message. Unfortunately, I had no more speaking time, so I would like to thank Mr Ulenbelt for the opportunity to wholeheartedly endorse this question and ask the Minister to answer it tomorrow. I feel a little used by Mr Ulenbelt for this question, but with pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u515	Mr Ulenbelt will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u516	Mr Van Weyenberg has advocated a substantial increase in youth pay. My question is: how many jobs can that cost from D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u517	If we do that generation pact, we can come up with something that will kill two birds with one stone and create more jobs. In addition, I believe that there is an inequality in youth pay. We say equal pay for equal work. That goes for young and old. Mr Mulder has made a very important point about the salary scales of older people. That's the point I want to give him. That is an unpopular message, but it now stands in the way of seeking older people. However, he must also name the other side of the story: a young person of 23, who is just as productive and probably even more productive than Mr Mulder or I would be in his work at the Subway or somewhere else, gets paid much less than we would get paid. I don't think that's fair. I know that this also applies to Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u518	I would like to ask whether Mr Van Weyenberg remembered my question. That question was: how many jobs can it cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u519	We'll see. I haven't seen any drafts yet. I also heard the Central Planning Bureau say at the hearing, also on the basis of discussions in America, that certain steps can be taken without job losses. I'm very curious about what's going on. Maybe Mr. Mulder's in charge. We didn't get it from the cabinet. If they're there, I'll ask the Minister: bring up the wire transfers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u520	Interestingly, we asked for these transfers with a number of parties and D66 did not support that request last week. The D66 motion on the minimum youth wage did not, by the way, cover the generation pact and the elderly. It was a motion that was about a substantial step at the minimum youth wage, in itself. That motion also stated that it should not lead to "too much" job losses. Since there seems to be a pass-through, I think it is a fair question from the VVD. D66 has made the number of jobs the main focus of the Tax Plan and even seems to be willing to adjust a huge reduction in the burden because not enough jobs are created. The question then seems relevant to me: how many jobs can cost a substantial increase in the minimum youth wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u521	We had already pretty much an agreement with the cabinet on many more jobs. The CDA didn't want that, but that's another debate, that's not for today. I now turn to Mr Heerma's question. The reason why I did not explicitly support that request is that I assumed that we would receive a letter from the Cabinet and that, if there are figures, we will get it from the Cabinet. They weren't there. So I'm assuming they're not here. If they are, I want to know as much as Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u522	Again, the question is very simple: 5,000 jobs, 10,000 jobs, 15,000 jobs? How many jobs can this cost according to D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u523	I want to see those sums first. Nor am I convinced that it costs jobs at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u524	We've had a few weeks of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u525	I've been waiting for you! You knew that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u526	Well, I was hoping there was already a clear answer. If I remember correctly, D66 said: the cabinet cannot agree to any plan from the opposition that would cost jobs? Well, then that's got to apply here, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u527	I think it was between 35,000 and 42,000 jobs, if I remember Mr Dijkgraaf correctly. And indeed, Mr Heerma feels addressed, because his party was also under that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u528	Again, that was not the question. Five questions have already been asked and no answer has been given. I hope, however, that D66 is so consistent that if the CPB overbook shows that it costs jobs, it would rather support the transferable tax rebate than this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u529	Firstly, a compliment to Mr Dijkgraaf. He managed to raise the transferable tax rebate in this debate as well. I have just as much fun in this debate with Mr Dijkgraaf as I had in the debate on the Tax Plan, however we disagreed. I regret that we also disagree in this debate, because I believe that the principle of equal pay for equal work also appeals to Mr Dijkgraaf. And no, I'm not mentioning one concrete number, because I don't know the numbers yet. I don't know the variants yet. I'm gonna study that carefully first. I am sure Mr Dijkgraaf will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u530	Mr. Chairman. The challenge in the field of integration is, of course, the inclusion of the large quantities of newcomers that the Netherlands is currently receiving. Previously, some naive estimates have led to the services in the foreign chain having to arrange with racing and flight work beds. My appeal to this minister today is simple. Avoid following the facts, like the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Ensure the rapid integration of these newcomers, care for education, care for language and better job opportunities. The opposition has been asking for an approach for months, but this minister remained silent. Now there's a plan. It is a first step, but I do think that the Minister is hiding too much behind woolly words and paper tigers in this plan. He's talking about language buddies, task forces and buddy projects. I read phrases like: with a warm heart and a cool head. I would like to admit that this minister is not a hothead, but I would like him to get angry and deliver on this file. I would like to mention three examples. I'll start with the diploma recognition. At the moment, I quote: 'How can the competences, diplomas, work experience and language skills of refugees be made easier to understand?' However, during the General Political Reviews a motion on this matter has already been tabled and adopted. So why is it only now that people are watching? Why hasn't action been taken long ago? Why doesn't it give priority to performing chamber motions that see that people can participate as soon as possible? I come to the language. The PvdA rightly calls, like my party, for language lessons from day one. Come on, let's get this over with. Those are fine words from this minister's party. I fully support that, but the question is: why is it not happening? Why doesn't this minister do that? For my party, it's clear. Every day these people sit on their hands and do nothing in emergency care is a wasted day. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is clear about this. People with better language control, who are very powerful in Dutch, are two to three times more likely to get a job and thus two to three times less likely to receive assistance. Get right on learning our language to these people. Get on with it. That is quite different from what I would like to quote from the COA to see whether and how it is possible to offer Dutch lessons to asylum seekers who have been staying in the Netherlands for some time within the existing budget frameworks. That's just throwing over the fence of a very big problem with an organization that is already incredibly difficult. Why doesn't the Minister provide those language lessons? I'm going into work barriers now. Joining us from day one is extremely important. I see municipalities are doing their best to facilitate this. Amsterdam requires experimental space to get people to work faster. For example, Amsterdam mentions shortening the six-month period for the employment permit. Amsterdam also mentions increasing the number of weeks an asylum seeker can work, but this request has been on the table with Minister Asscher for six weeks. Why isn't there an answer? And what is this minister's answer? I recently felt that this minister should be more visible when it comes to integration. There's a letter, I've already said it with many words and few deeds. The words in it are about a declaration of participation. It is a so-called participation declaration, with legislative changes which oblige it to sign it, fine it if it is not complied with and workshops on Dutch core values; make it up. I like the symbolism, but you can also say: you cannot live in symbolism. Why not make every effort to get people involved through work, language and education? I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u531	I very much agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that more effort is needed. I am curious to hear the Minister's answer to this, but I am also curious to hear what D66 has to say. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly makes all kinds of demands, but what does he deliver? How's D66 gonna get jobs? Is D66 going to reverse the landlord's tax, which leads to a growing housing shortage, so that everyone can get an affordable home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u532	How does D66 create jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u533	This is a debate which Mrs Karabulut and I have had the opportunity to hold on an earlier occasion. At that time it was also about the differences between jobs for old and young. I wanted to mention the participation declaration because it reminded me of the cabinet's job plans. There's a big problem with 600,000 unemployed. There will be a lot of paper thrown into it, but there will be no solution. I would ask the Minister to take two concrete measures with regard to asylum seekers. I'm asking him to remove the work restrictions. There is indeed work; so does Mrs Karabulut. There are a lot of unemployed people, but also a lot of unfulfilled vacancies. I think we should see how we put that together. I agree with Mrs Karabulut that we should not only do this for asylum seekers, but also for people who have long been longing for a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u534	Fine, but I asked for something else. Let me take something concrete from the headline: language teaching. That's incredibly important. Many Dutch people, with or without a migrant background, and licence holders are not normally able to participate in this at the moment because there is no good language offer. If you want to organize that, you have to allocate resources to that. That must be done in such a way that it does not come at the expense of one group or another. Is Mr Sjoerdsma prepared not to break down social services but to invest in them so that we can deal with all these problems? Then we can prevent parties such as the PVV, but even the minister's party, from pointing to the other, to the refugees, as the cause of all problems, while we ourselves have opportunities because there is enough for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u535	Mrs Karabulut rightly says that a number of parties in the Chamber use asylum seekers and refugees as excuses and put them away as a group that will blow up our welfare state. Mrs Karabulut talks about language lessons and how we can finance them without compromising the facilities that already exist. We can deal with that in two ways. My party advocates giving these language lessons from day one, not in crisis relief, but in emergency care. Let's do that by opening up the loans granted by DUO to asylum seekers in emergency care. If they don't make it or eventually don't get a permit, the risk is for the Empire. That loan is not going to be repaid. Get that out of the asylum reserve; that's already reserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u536	Thank you. I suggest that we take a short break and then continue with Mrs Schouten's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u537	Mr. Chairman. The Social Affairs and Employment budget is an excellent budget for people. About the working earner with a disabled daughter, who has only just managed to make ends meet with the family. The budget for the employer who likes to employ someone with a disability, but is stuck in bureaucracy. The budget for the family that is stuck in the swamp of debt but has poor access to debt relief. The budget for the 50-year-old who has been unemployed for a long time. And also the budget for azzp'er who can't afford his disability insurance. The budget for all those families, in which fathers and mothers have to produce the next generation. For those people we are debating here today. Their interest is the public interest. 2016 could just be the last financial year that this cabinet is perfect. I'm optimistic, as you should be. This is therefore the debate to take stock of the situation. What have we done for these people? What have the Minister and the Secretary of State done for these people? We can see that this government has managed to steer a lot of major amending laws through the Lower House and through the Upper Chamber. That's worth a compliment, but paper is patient and the practice resists. It requires both directors to be on top of how these laws work in practice and also of politics to look honestly at the impact of our own measures. We have received many letters and plans in recent days with good intentions from the Minister and the Secretary of State, but frankly I have not yet been reassured. I note that sometimes there is no solution to a problem because the coalition does not want to agree, or because the problem is pushed through to the polder, where it gets bogged down in partial interests. I call that in general, because it annoys me. These leaders are not there for the coalition and not for the polder, but for the general interest of all those people I have just mentioned. From this responsibility, I would like to address both directors on a number of issues. I will begin with the two largest laws of this Secretary of State: the Participation Act and the Quotum Act. With this we want to help people with disabilities to get a regular job. That goal is widely shared in this Chamber, but in my opinion it is still not going well. For months now, we have been warning the Secretary of State that her law is in danger of being broken, not because employers don't want to, not because people with disabilities don't want to, but because the government is stalling things. Over the last few months, I have spoken to many companies that would like to employ people with disabilities, such as Van Werven, who had offered eight places for people with disabilities. They only got two people from the UWV and the municipality. They have been working on this for a year and a half and they could not fill those vacancies. They are stuck in bureaucracy and are not provided with enough candidates. That's not because there aren't people who want a job like that. I've talked to these people a lot, too. We are currently creating disappointment among employers and people who are remote from the labour market. The basis for these laws depends on that. It's gonna be a bit of a disaster if that base of support goes down. Something really needs to happen right now. I welcome a number of measures taken by this Secretary of State, for example on the longer period of wage valuation and the inclusion of vso-pro-pupils in the target population register. For example, the matching problems I mentioned will be transferred to the Workrooms, which will then be allowed to make agreements by region. That's never gonna work for employers. They simply want clarity; a clear place, where all candidates and their possibilities have been brought together. Let me put it bluntly: if the Secretary of State does not move forward quickly with this law, then the support for the Quotum law may also fall away, even with the Christian Union. We voted firmly in favour of that law, but there must be a fair chance of complying with those quotas. If that does not happen because the government does not do what is to be expected of her, we must also look at it honestly when the Quotum Act may enter into force. I ask the Secretary of State to address the following issues and to respond tomorrow: removing bureaucracy for employers, better matching, better clarity between municipalities and UWV, for example on the target group register and its inspection, and creating a single point of contact for employers. Can the Secretary of State address all these points tomorrow? Then I'll come to the Minister's Work and Security Act. The aim was to provide people with more security and to lead them to permanent contracts. For the time being, the number of people with fixed contracts is falling. We are reaching important concerns about whether this law can reverse the ship. This law has only recently entered into force. So I'm not gonna say that it has to go overboard again. I think it is important that we should be able to assess this mid-term evaluation very quickly. However, I would ask the Minister not to sit on his hands until then. A solution has been found for seasonal work in the agricultural and horticultural sectors. That happened in particular in the polder. However, I understand that no solution has yet been found for the recreational sector. How does the Minister judge this? What can he do about it? What about education? We are getting a lot of signals from education that people no longer know how to deal with invaders, because they will soon have to get a fixed contract. The schools can't afford that. Is the Minister prepared to consider how to find a good solution to this problem? I am also thinking of the universities, where according to the staff of the universities so-called crafts contracts are now being introduced, a fixed contract for only one day and flexible hours with the rest of the week. PhD students get into trouble, because they are not finished with their PhD research within four years, but can also not be hired permanently. These are all practical problems. I think we should look in this room at how we can solve it. I ask the Minister to think with that. Mr Van Weyenberg also mentioned: what about the government itself? We're getting reports that it's not all cake and cake in that area yet. When this matter was at DUO, the Minister indicated that he no longer wanted constructions in which payrollers were fired or in which all kinds of temporary contracts were offered. Can the Minister put his hand into the fire that this practice is over with the government? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I come to an important issue for the Christian Union: debt. One in five households have high-risk debts, turned out to be this weekend. Let me visualize it here: one block of this Chamber would then have problematic debts. Or in political groups: the groups of D66, the CDA, the SGP and the Party for Animals together. Almost 1.2 million debtors are not in the picture in formal debt relief. For the 193 000 people who are known, the water comes to the lips. It concerns people who live around the minimum, but also more and more people with a middle income. I'm worried about that. I'm also worried about the help these people are getting, or, rather, not getting. In the Netherlands there is a debt epidemic and a lot of people are out of doctors. I therefore believe that the Secretary of State should do much more than she does now, about which she wrote in her last letter. I would like to mention a number of points. Firstly, it is really time for the Secretary of State to sit down with the municipalities to make firm agreements on improving debt relief. A comprehensive approach is needed, from voluntary debt relief projects to heavy debt restructuring pathways. In her letter, the Secretary of State always refers to municipalities and their responsibilities. However, now is also the time to fulfil our role here if the municipalities themselves do not fully come out. As far as I'm concerned, we're not gonna wait until the evaluation of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act is there next year. If it is up to me, there will now be a wide-ranging government agreement with the municipalities on debt as soon as possible. In addition, the Empire may also have to cross the bridge. The 1.2 million households with risky or problematic debt deserve this. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to this proposal. My second point is governance. Since difficult debt management became possible, the protection regime has grown explosively. The Secretary of State has commissioned an investigation into this, and we have obtained the result. Such conclusions can be seen in the budget of a municipality like Leeuwarden. This has reduced the cost of managing from EUR 2 tonnes to EUR 1.8 million. This money comes from the pot for special assistance and is intended to combat poverty. It seems that governance functions as a form of debt relief, while it is much more expensive and not always effective. The aldermen are now saying: we have to pay the directors' bills, so give us control to see if there are any solutions that can help people better than an expensive administrator. What does the Secretary of State think of that appeal from the aldermen? Does she know the pilot in Arnhem, where this is already happening? Is she prepared to make that nationwide possible? How does it intend to further improve practice? I think it would be wise, for example, to require directors to look first with the municipality to see if there are solutions other than government. Does the Secretary of State agree? And is it prepared to investigate whether, due to a debt situation, management can be of a more temporary nature? If you are in control now, you often stay in control, which may not be necessary at all and is paid out of the pot of special assistance. I would like to receive a response to these proposals. My third point concerns preferential creditors. A lot of people in debt get into trouble when their corporation has to line up in the back. For example, people can pay their debts at Wehkamp, but they are threatening to evict their homes. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at some kind of secondary preference for debt linked to residence? After all, it is crucial and vital for people not to be on the streets. I understand that there will be the necessary legal and technical hooks and eyes, but it seems to me an interesting option to look at at at least. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? The fourth point I have made a great many times, namely that the Tax Administration must respect the unwounded foot. I keep calling this every debate, because it keeps going wrong and wrong. I know that the Secretary of State is working on it and that it is mostly the complex ICT systems at the Tax Office, but I find it impossible for the government to do this. It can't and must stop quickly. Can the Secretary of State state state whether she can do more than what has happened so far? That remains my "ceterum censeo Carthaginem esse deldendam," my "otherwise I believe that..." By the way, I do not believe that Carthage should be destroyed; I am purely concerned with the unwound foot. When Cato first made this statement, he had hidden a basket of fresh figs under his toga, which he triumphantly brought forth as proof that Carthage was a dangerous trading competitor. I can't wait to see what's coming out of the Secretary of State's gown tomorrow. Let me now turn to the legal minimum youth wage. Especially MBOs with a diploma in their pocket who are going to work and have to live off their wages have a very tight scholarship because up to 23 years the legal minimum youth wage applies. These young people have completed training and have to provide their own income and livelihoods. We need to see how that becomes possible. We got a very short note from the Minister. I'm just saying that it's very sensitive in the coalition. Can the Minister outline what his follow-up will be when he reports here on the intentions he himself has expressed? If the Minister himself or with the coalition is stuck there, we will come up with a proposal from the Chamber. I'm coming up on thezzp'ers now. The cabinet has had a major investigation into their position. It's still vulnerable. For example, manyzzp'ers are now not well insured against incapacity for work. The question after the ibozzp is: what now? Once again, PvdA and VVD do not agree on what needs to be done now. So nothing is threatening to happen anymore, while being uninsured, for example, is a problem that can affect a lot of people. What is this minister going to do for all thosezzp'ers, some of whom are also in a vulnerable position? I come to the point of pay-as-you-go in case of illness. However, the coalition reached a partial agreement. The minister's gonna study on it, but we got some sort of middle ground from him in a letter. The question is, however, whether this will be the workable alternative. Mr Heerma has made an interesting proposal on how, for example, the payment of wages in the event of illness can be achieved in conjunction with an improvement in the position ofzzp'ers. I'm curious to see what the possibilities are at that point. I also understand that he asked the ESC to look into it. I wholeheartedly agree with that. I would like to ask whether the ESC can therefore see what the distribution of premiums would be like. Should this come from employers, or should the workers themselves do something about it? I would also like to look forward to a further benefit on this type of detail. Then, of course, I will come to the motion of my colleague Ester from the First Chamber, who also asked for the ESC opinion on long-term unemployment. It is amazing that now that the economic situation is picking up, there is still a hard core of long-term unemployment. What exactly is that about? That's what the motion is asking for. I also understand that Mr Vermeij has asked for a broadening of parts of that motion. I agree with that. I think it's okay to see how that flow from flex to solid. Is the Minister prepared to ask the ESC as well? Then the point of integration. The Minister has put forward a proposal for the declaration of participation. The Christian Union believes that this is a good plan in itself. It lets newcomers know what kind of society they're joining. At the same time, its binding nature lies not in that declaration, but in the rule of law itself. It really requires what everyone in the Netherlands has to comply with. That is why I have difficulty with the fine regime linked to that participation declaration. The rule of law is not something you can or cannot conform to. The rule of law is in itself the protection against anyone who chooses to cross its borders. Does the Minister share that analysis and, if so, what does he think of the fine that is attached to it? Is it still necessary as far as he's concerned? We have received a letter of amendment from this minister on the part of the TOG, the allowance to parents of a disabled child, which is also linked to the Tax Plan. Let me just say that at least I think it is a gain that we can now arrange in this budget for these parents to receive a higher allowance, regardless of whether the Tax Plan in the First Chamber is going to get a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u538	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet can look back on a year of many new laws: the Work and Security Act, the Participation Act and the Law approach bogus constructions. The laws didn't get there flawlessly, but they got there. What do these laws mean? Suppose it's 2040. What does the labour market look like? Then who works and what are the terms of employment? Can we all go through robotization on a six-hour working day? 40% of young people now have a flexible contract. What's that gonna be like in 2040? Do these people still have a flex contract? Do they have any certainty yet? And does the 30-year-old, who now has a permanent contract, still have his job? Or does he do the same work as a zzp'er or a freelancer? Has the current fifties, who have been unemployed for a number of years, been able to build a good pension with the temporary work he has done over the last decades of his working life? This is the time to choose a society in which people have time to live. A relaxed society in which care and work can be combined well and in which prosperity is defined not only as the number of hours you work, the level of your salary and the amount of stuff you can buy for it, but also in which other things such as friends, relaxation and self-realization are at least as important. Good steps have been taken in the past year. For example, the Law on flexible working of GroenLinks and the CDA has been adopted, the Minister has arranged for the extension of paternity leave and care leave and has made more money available for toddler and childcare. This creates space to choose a balanced balance between work, care and leisure. But the dot on the horizon, that relaxed society, is still very far away and the progress made is no reason to sit back now. We therefore call on the Minister to go further, as we will continue to propose, for example, to extend paternity leave further. What else does the Minister intend to do about this period? For example, is he really not prepared to take steps to ensure that all chronically ill parents are entitled to child care allowance? A truly relaxed society requires more than schemes to combine work and care; it also requires basic security for everyone. In recent years, however, we have seen a growing gap between people with fixed contracts with good working conditions and those with small and uncertain incomes. Differences between permanent workers, flex workers and zzp'ers have faded on the work floor, but increase in terms of conditions. This is contrary to the Minister's priorities. The Work and Security Act was one of the crown jewels that would make flex less flex. Unfortunately, we hear that people are being fired because of this law. Banks write about people as occupational risks. Universities are trying to circumvent the law with contracts for one day. Nota bene the Implementation Education Service came into the news several times because he fired payrollers instead of hiring them, because he sent flex workers for two weeks unpaid on Christmas holidays and worked with agency workers through rotary door constructions for years. There may be fewer people with a payroll contract in the government now, but can the Minister also provide insight into the development of the proportion of people with a temporary contract or a temporary contract? How many of them are in Phase A, B and C? Can the Minister also explain what happened to the cleaners in the ministries of I and M and Foreign Affairs? Unlike their colleagues in other ministries, they are still not in permanent service. When will the Minister make his promise to these people? The research intozzp'ers has presented us the options clearly. Do we opt for maximum protection and go back to fixed contracts, or do we opt for freedom of choice with less certainty? It sounds like the discussion within the coalition in a nutshell. We can also opt for the third alternative from ibozzp, in which we assume that all workers must have and keep basic security regardless of their contract form. The cabinet has not yet dared to make the choice, but GroenLinks wants to do so. Working as a zzp'er or through flex contracts offers people a lot of freedom and space to choose the type of work, the boss they work for and the working hours. There is therefore every reason to give this ample opportunity, but that is precisely why it must always be a choice. At the moment we see that flex is often a cheap way of getting the same work done. We must move towards a fair labour market for all workers. Flex must be more expensive than fixed again. It cannot continue to be the case that large groups of self-employed people do not insure themselves for incapacity for work because it is now too expensive. In June, the minister called for him to take care of it, but he has not done anything about it for the time being. More participation should be given to workers with flex contracts. Any worker should be able to vote for the works council at the same time. The time you work as a payroller or temp should also count. Will the Minister take a serious look at this? The second multi-annual contract is still a good way for my group to offer workers more security than they currently have. I therefore ask the Minister about the discussions on the second multiannual contract. How do we proceed with this? A fair labour market also means an adult wage for all adults. Is the cabinet not going to do anything about it because it is not allowed by the VVD, because this party thinks it is bad for the economy? That is typical of economics: employment is above all else, also above all principles of equal pay for equal work and the ability to live on your salary if you work full-time. These are values on which I thought our labour market was founded. The Minister says everywhere that he shares these values, but he does not move to action, pushes it forward again and explains it to the social partners. Fortunately, a majority of the House would like to do something about this. That is why we are going to pass on scenarios ourselves and take the initiative if this minister cannot or does not want to escape from the VVD. As far as the long term is concerned, can't we just get rid of all these insecure contracts? The minister has payrolling investigated, but then there will probably be a new variant. The OECD has carried out research into the single contract, a fixed standard contract for all, gradually building up job security as longer as they are employed. As a result, the sharp border between a permanent and a temporary appointment disappears. Does the Minister know this research and would he like to look at the possibilities and consequences of this in the Netherlands? Another gap that is widening is that between people who do work and people who do not work. The frustration of people who have been unemployed for years is great. They send hundreds of application letters without getting an answer or go from internship to internship to internship. Despite economic growth, unemployment rose again last month. The number of people in the assistance has increased this year and the number of people over 55 in the WW has even doubled. The question is whether there will be jobs next year, or whether we will be facing a period of prolonged stagnation. I am an optimist, but I hope for a sense of reality, because this cabinet is going through austerity, even though it has caused many unemployed people and a bald blow, for example in the care sector. When it had the chance, this cabinet chose a little purchasing power for the workers in the Tax Plan rather than for jobs for those who are now on the sidelines. The sector plans have not done much either. It's not even clear how many people have been helped with this. Like the Ambassador Youth unemployment it seems nice window dressing, but the results are butter soft. It is precisely because the number of jobs is not going to increase spectacularly that it is very important to talk here about people who do not have a job, because they are being treated as if unemployment is their own fault. GroenLinks wants to leave people in their value, even if they don't work. With 100,000 vacancies out of 600,000 unemployed, we really cannot maintain that it is because of the employability of all those people that they do not find a job. People who don't have a job, we have to treat them properly. The strict rules, the fines and the punishment of volunteering in the Participation Act, so it doesn't help anything. GroenLinks therefore calls for social assistance, with fewer rules and more room for additional income. 2016 can be a good year if municipalities can start experimenting. The Secretary of State would inform us about the timetable and what the steps are. Can she report that now? GroenLinks would also like to see WW'ers get more freedom of choice, especially now that there is face to face contact again. We therefore suggest that WW'ers should be able to opt for personal guidance, digital guidance or no guidance at all, and what kind of course or training they need. Can the Minister indicate who will receive the personal guidance for which money is now available? Is that a decision of the UWV or can the WW'ers choose for themselves? And on the distribution of the 150 million, can the minister indicate where extra money is going and what is its effectiveness? Has the effectiveness been proven or are we going to spend money, as with the sector plans, without knowing in advance what it will yield? I'd like a response. I am concerned about the division that arises between people with fixed and flexible contracts, between security and uncertainty and between workers and the unemployed. We see a growing group, often people with less income and lower education, living in uncertainty about whether they will be able to pay their rent tomorrow, how they will support their families when they are sick and whether their children will get it better than themselves. Unfortunately, the latter is often not the case. If you grow up with welfare parents, you will often receive a benefit higher than average. Poor children have two to three times overweight and children who grow up in poverty more often leave their school without starting qualifications, even though they could come along well. The Secretary of State and the Minister often say that they want to combat child poverty, but in practice they do not. In the meantime, 6.5% of children are growing up in a welfare family. That's almost 223.000 children, even more than before this cabinet started. More than a third of these children do not regularly do leisure activities outside the door. 15% doesn't even celebrate his birthday because there's no money. A welfare family with two children leaves €5 monthly for gifts, sports and outings. But these extra things are important for the development of a child. Unfortunately, their perspective on a good job with dito income is becoming less and less. GroenLinks believes that these children should not be affected by their parents' income position. Every child must have the space to be a child, to follow good education and to develop. If we do not do our best for these children, we will have a division in which the children of rich parents will have all the opportunities and children of low-income parents will start to lag behind 5-0. That is why we have three urgent issues to address in order to increase the opportunities for children. First of all... The Dutch reservation in Article 26 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child ensures that children do not have an independent right to social security. The Netherlands is the only country in the world with such reservations. The Secretary of State for VWS referred me to this minister. Now I'm asking him. Is this cabinet finally prepared to drop that reservation so that all children can get a fair start? Shopping in children's rights just can't be done. Second. The child package is in more and more municipalities, but not everywhere. Worse still, it often doesn't end up with the children who need it the most. With a little stimulation of the child package and collaboration in the district to find the children, you won't get there. GroenLinks therefore proposes to do it differently. You are a child, your parents get assistance, then you automatically get a sports subscription, a toy ticket or a winter coat. In other words, in the case of children, municipalities should be able to recreate categoral policies. Third. The disadvantage these children have is often reflected in their chances of entering the labour market. The cabinet proposes new measures to tackle youth unemployment, particularly among young people with benefits, migrant backgrounds and without starting qualifications. We saw Minister Asscher go by the doors yesterday to visit young people at home, but an increasing number of young people are no longer registered at all. As a result of the cost sharing standard in the assistance, they increasingly opt out from their parents, thus disappearing and getting even further away from that job or training. Ghost kids, huh? In Amsterdam alone, there are about 1,000 young people, precisely those invisible young people who the minister wants to track down. GroenLinks therefore calls for the abolition of the cost sharing standard when it comes to live-in children. Increase the age for children who do not count from the cost sharing standard to 27 years. Just like the cost sharing standard in the AOW, it only works counterproductively if you are cut off on your benefit if your child stays in the home. It deprives these young people of opportunities. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The division in society between fixed and flex, between rich and poor, between high probability and low probability is increasing. These rulers say they want to fight the division, but that has so far been unsuccessful. There is another gap that they do not know how to close, namely that between newcomers and people who have lived here for generations. Instead of reducing differences, policies increase differences. This cabinet wants to introduce assistance in kind for refugees. Asylum seekers do not receive the same care as other children. You can't vote as a migrant until after seven years instead of five years. Newcomers are required to sign a participation declaration, while the evaluation shows that the signing of the declaration by pilot municipalities is precisely seen as a less sensible measure. They don't see much benefit in that obligation. Things like welcoming and giving information work much better, but of course that was not in the Minister's letter. Thus, the cabinet creates second-class citizens, even before we have given them the chance to become citizens. With the Claver and Chicken/Marcouch motion, the Chamber indicated that all asylum seekers should be given more opportunities to learn and work as soon as they are here. Then why doesn't the cabinet do that? Do all asylum seekers now have access to Dutch language lessons in an azc? Why isn't it arranged that they're allowed to work sooner than six months? What is the Cabinet doing to create more opportunities for learning and working for asylum seekers and especially for young people from 16 years of age? Every day they don't do anything, there's too much. Does the Minister consider that he has carried out the Claver and Chicken/Marcouch motions? We have to start shutting people in instead of excluding them. In a rich country like the Netherlands, everyone deserves the chance to make a living.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u539	Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking the rulers for presenting the budget. I do not think that has happened in the previous hours, but it is actually quite important. Many people in this country depend on a lot of regulations. That is what many tens of billions are all about, so it's pretty important that these pieces are here. Last year, quite a lot of difficult measures have been taken, often supported by us. Then support in society is of great importance. Mr Van Weyenberg already gave a good example of where things go wrong with someone who had to apply when he already had a job. I know that these are complicated arrangements and I know that not everything can go well, but I got an open application from a gentleman who applied for a position with our party. In his letter he writes among other things: My age is 64 years and 10 months. From this, you will rightly conclude that in a few months' time I will be entitled to AOW. The government obliges me to apply at my age. More importantly, however, with this application I would like to bring to your attention the partial nonsense of this rule. I've tried this a few times with the UWV. However, referring to the law, I am forced to continue applying. In fact, I have to send my last application letters on December 21st, one day before I'm entitled to AOW. I don't know what to put in my application letter to be taken seriously anymore, so I'm gonna leave it at that. I'd appreciate it if this useless shit came to the attention. I'm very curious to hear your response to my application. Goodbye. Then we'll have a signature and a name. A nice detail I think is still underneath: CV available on request. I know how hard it all is. It says more in the letter, among other things, that you don't have to apply if you become unemployed after you're 64 years old. This man has become unemployed before he's 64 years old, and then he has to. Those people have a hopeless feeling: you can't expect this, can you? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what I could say. There may be standard notes in the Ministry, but that's not really what I'm talking about. Is there any way to deal with these kinds of cases, which you can say is really reasonable? I prepared three pages on pay-as-you-go. In view of the preparatory work carried out by Mr Heerma and Mr Mulder, for example, Mrs Schouten also had some fine texts on this subject. Saves time. At this time, I don't think anyone would mind. These are wonderful lyrics from my associate, who will be deeply disappointed tomorrow. Maybe we should just put them on the website once. I think it's about three things. Firstly, the limit of ten employees in the proposal, for which I would like to thank you. In itself, that is a concession. Where exactly did that line come from? Is it randomly chosen or not? I get the impression that even above the limit pay is a major barrier to employment. And that's what it's all about in the end. Businesses must grow and the engine of SME-Netherlands must continue to operate. We should not be left with too many self-employed people without staff who do not grow in an e.g. or another form. Secondly, the question is why the one-year limitation was chosen. Mr Heerma chooses for eight weeks. Can we provide more substantial support for this? What's a reasonable time to get that job engine started? Thirdly, I would like to hear the Minister on super-statutory measures in relation to the collective agreement. Can we not force individual employers to take these super-statutory measures? Mr Mulder has also drawn attention to this. Mr President, I come to the issue of reintegrating detainees. For vulnerable groups in the labour market, it is already difficult to get to work, but this is particularly true for ex-convicts. It is very important for them to find a job in order to avoid repetition. We ask for attention for the project De Compagnie, van Gevangenzorg Nederland. It's a wonderful project, but it still needs to get watered up financially. It appears to be successful to invest in a work path during detention. The idea has been borrowed from another country, which has had 40 years of experience with it. It is also in line with the objectives of the Participation Act. There is a lot of social involvement through the use of volunteers. A motion was adopted in the course of the debate on the budget of justice (34306, No. 57) in which the government is asked to provide financial support. I ask the Secretary of State what she can do about this. We understand from the Secretary of State for V and J that implementation should most probably be done through SZW. On the one hand, this concerns prison care and on the other hand labour market policy. How does the Secretary of State intend to enforce that motion? Others have also mentioned the declaration of participation. Foreigners who are allowed to stay in the Netherlands must, of course, respect the framework of the rule of law. That is what Mrs Schouten rightly said. The government's coming up with a statement of participation. That is something on which my group is in itself positive. However, we are asking for the text in question. Is that the text that was also used in the pilot? We notice that important cultural behavioural problems that are taking place in the Islamic world are not mentioned. I'm talking about forced marriages, polygamy and girl circumcision, to name but a few. In countries such as France and Denmark, this is simply mentioned very explicitly. In this country, we do not deal with it that way. It doesn't fit here. Is the government prepared to consider how this can be taken into account when drawing up the proposal? My final point concerns the minimum wage deductions. This point has also been raised before. The SGP has advocated fakes in the Law approach for some flexibility towards employers who provide their employee with accommodation and health insurance and therefore make deductions on the minimum wage. It is good to read in a letter from the Minister that he is taking more time to examine this carefully. Of course, we are always in favour of doing this carefully. However, I assume that it is mainly about the way in which an exception is provided for. I assume that the letter is not intended to delay execution or even delay execution. The need is still there. I would like to draw attention to the fact that vulnerable groups in the labour market can get caught up without these deductions. Theoretical ideals must not lead to practical problems. I assume the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u540	Mr Dijkgraaf said something about super-statutory measures. Employers should be able to be excluded. I couldn't figure that out. Can Mr Dijkgraaf explain that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u541	Yeah, sure. Given Mr Ulenbelt's background, I can understand why he doesn't understand that. Mr Ulenbelt believes that it should all be done with collective agreements. Collective agreements, for example, deal with benefits for sickness and similar matters, which are super-statutory. My group would rather not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u542	The special thing about a collective agreement is that it is totally super-statutory. The wage agreed upon in that agreement is super-statutory. If parties agree with each other in freedom, is there no reason to abolish all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u543	I understand the principle. However, I see all kinds of things happening in collective agreement countries that do not help to actually solve the problem, to make sure that people are actually employed. They make that work even more expensive. I am not a great supporter of collective bargaining in the Netherlands, as Mr Ulenbelt is. I'm not saying get rid of it. No. Luckily, collective agreements do good things too. I ask the Minister about the possibilities of avoiding obligations for individual employers in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u544	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to keep everyone awake at this late hour. Paste pasters and make bandages. That's what cabinet policy reminds of. Squarers and bandages. When it comes to employment, the cabinet is sticking plasters and bandages, while 50PLUS is time for a major operation. With such a far-reaching operation, we must ensure that many more people have prospects for a good future. My input is four blocks: employment, income policy, AOW and pensions, and poverty and debt policy. First of all, I come to employment. The number of unemployed is over 600 000 unabated. There are even more current WW benefits than in September. Half of them are 50-plus. Unemployment among 55- to 65-year-olds has now risen from 45,000 in 2007 to over 100,000 now. That's more than a doubling. Long-term unemployment has tripled since 2009 and mainly affects 55-plussers. That is a major social problem. What did the Cabinet do about it? In 2008, the Bakker Commission stated that we would have a deficit of 350 000 people in the labour market in 2015. It is now 2015 and we have over 600,000 people without jobs. Since 2008, employment policy has focused mainly on the threat of labour shortages. One of the measures taken by the cabinet was the gradual increase of the AOW age. Why is the AOW age being increased at a time of high unemployment? Isn't this the right time to lower the AOW age? Major surgery is needed instead of a patch or bandage. I'd like to get a response. For a few years, a new, recently strengthened, labour market challenge has manifested itself: the large number of refugees. Those who are allowed to stay in the Netherlands are also looking for a job. This only increases the challenge. According to Rabobank's economists, high unemployment remains a source of pain and a clear blur over the prospects. 50PLUS shares that conclusion. At present, there seems to be a cautious increase in employment. At the same time, for example, robotisation is increasingly affecting the number of jobs now and in the future. The number of paid jobs that have now been exchanged for volunteering is huge. Let me give you some examples from practice. A department secretary at a health care institution retires, but is asked back two half days to perform her duties voluntarily. One in ten neighborhood buses is no longer driven by a paid bus driver, but by a volunteer. In a North-Holland place, a neighborhood bus is operated by volunteers and people with benefits. That neighborhood bus replaces an existing line that has been cancelled by the municipality. A taxi centre in Flevoland employs twenty volunteers to carry out Wmo transport. A Brabant municipality is currently considering whether volunteers can replace professional community center managers. These are all paid jobs that are now being filled by volunteers. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this has exceeded a limit. This is crazy. The world turned upside down. I see another development in health care in the labour market. In August, the CBS calculated a loss of no less than 65,000 jobs. The government can count on that, given the policies pursued in long-term care and Wmo. A third of the employees in the care are 50 years or older. We have already mentioned the limited opportunities for people of this age group in the labour market if they lose their jobs in care. That is a worrying situation. The Code of Responsible Market Behaviour, drawn up at the initiative of the Transition Committee Social Domain, sets a lower limit for the price, reward and quality level, but this code is not binding and is also voluntary. Is the Minister prepared to draw his colleagues from Health, Welfare and Sport's attention to the importance of this code? Although the Cabinet recognises that in the long term more measures are needed to ensure decent work for all, it does not act as such. Yes, the CPB is going to investigate the impact of technology on the labour market. The ESC has also been asked for its opinion. That's nice in itself, but they're still Band-Aids and Band-Aids. When will the cabinet launch a major operation to meet the enormous challenges of the labour market? There are major shortcomings with regard to older people in the labour market. On the contrary, the government has increased the supply of older people in the labour market by accelerating the increase in the AOW age and is not taking sufficient measures to increase the opportunities for older people in the labour market, with the sad result of persistent and high ageing unemployment. The policy extended for 2016 50-plus Works is too weak. In the meantime, the Minister himself admits this. In the sector plans, older people are more or less shut down. Our attempt to increase the budget for 50-plus works by only 15 million did not receive any support in this Chamber last year. It's five to twelve. No, it's much later, but in this respect it's five to twelve. The Round Table on Long-Term Elderly Unemployment recently confirmed this. 50PLUS took note with interest of the letter published yesterday about the start-up to new work. The Minister gives an idea of how he intends to spend the under-exhaustment of 150 million in the sector plans. This is partly in line with the wishes of 50PLUS. We call on the Minister to come up with a programme of labour market 45-plus, focused solely on keeping the job and getting back to work for 45-plussers. Perhaps the ambassador to be appointed will have an excellent role to play in this. My question is, of course, when can it get started? The labour market programme should include the following elements: A targeted, major campaign to combat age discrimination and prejudice over older people. Recognition of 50-plus self-organisations and promotion of a constructive, uniform cooperation with the UWV. Personal guidance and jobhunting. Training, continuous development and keeping competences up-to-date. The development of an individual career budget, the improvement of opportunities for work-to-work transitions. Redistribution of existing work. Protection and restoration of healthcare employment. Reconsider age limit mobility bonus and age limit no-riskpolis benefit Disease law. Greater opportunities for job interviews for internships, volunteering and training. Making room for regular labour market experiments for older jobseekers. Research into demotion and sustainable participation. Development of the exemplary role of employment policy for older people in the government. VNO-NCW recently indicated in its position paper at the round table that we should wait for economic recovery to offer more long-term unemployed prospects on the labour market. In the view of employers, we must also accept that some of the older unemployed will no longer be able to bridge their distance from the labour market and that they will end up in the AOW pension scheme from the WW. 50PLUS believes that we should first and foremost offer people a perspective of employment. However, if that is no longer a viable way, then we must stop harassing those concerned with a pointless job application obligation. 50PLUS calls for a general exemption from the application requirement for people aged 64 and over, including those who become 64 years of age during their unemployment. In addition, 50PLUS believes that the UWV should be given the opportunity to grant a reasoned and individual exemption from the application requirement to persons from 60 years of age. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. A great deal has already been said about income policy. The General Reviews and more than 30 hours of discussion about the Tax Plan have not brought us much further. Nor has our amendment on the structuralisation of the older people's discount for 2016 increased. The same applies to our amendment to abolish the elderly allowance in box 3. After the last letter of amendment of the tax plan adopted in this Chamber, there is still a long way to go for a balanced purchasing power policy. Pensioners remain below the line with a structural financial disadvantage of 300 million. Workers get billions more. That's not fair and it's not social. Why has not a fair distribution been chosen between workers, those who cannot work and those who have worked? According to the Social Affairs and Employment budget, 39% of pensioners are not making any progress or even falling back. 95% of the workforce is improving. 64% even exceeds 2%. In this context, I would like to draw attention to recent research by the universities of Nijmegen and Amsterdam, which shows that in the period 2008-2013, purchasing power for workers decreased by 1.1%, but that of pensioners by 6%. In the case of middle income, the picture is 2.3% for employed workers and almost 13% for pensioners. If I explain these figures in addition to the purchasing power figures in this budget, I cannot see the purchasing power repair for the elderly other than a patch to attach the average purchasing power of the elderly, and then only for 2016. This patch will fall off in 2017, as the purchasing power repair is not structural. That hurts. I ask the Minister the following specific question. Does he agree with me that the figures presented in and around this budget and in the Tax Plan confirm that the gap between workers and pensioners is only widening? 50PLUS requests the regeneration of the stacking monitor. It contributed to a more complete picture of purchasing power development, as it also included measures in the purchasing power picture that are not in the usual picture. These include changes to the Wmo and the AWBZ provisions from the reform of long-term care. These are exactly the purchasing power effects that older people have relatively much to do with. I conclude this block on income policy with a strong appeal to the cabinet and the First Chamber on behalf of many pensioners: let the elderly communicate in proportion in the sweet. I'm getting to the block of "AOW and pensions." In this block, I do not consider the broad discussion on the desired pension system. We are going to debate this in detail in this Chamber. 50PLUS sees small steps in the right direction in the bridge control AOW, but that is just a patch. For example, there is no solution for beneficiaries with non-income partners, where supplementary pension income is deducted from the bridging provision. 50PLUS considers that this income should be disregarded and expects an appropriate solution for this group. Is the Secretary of State gonna do anything about that? 50PLUS once again calls attention to the AOW-hole of Surinamese Dutch. Can they expect anything from the cabinet? In this context, 50PLUS asks whether the Minister and his colleague in Finance would like to make an effort to ensure that the Netherlands and Suriname agree to levy the tax on the Dutch AOW benefit and the remigration allowance here. Is withholding tax on these benefits no longer obvious? The benefits are built up in the Netherlands. By taxing these benefits in the Netherlands, we could at least achieve that the people in Suriname would have more of their AOW and would have to live less in poverty and that pensioners who want to return to Suriname could do so financially. I would like to speak about the increase in the AOW age. Recent research by the Central Bureau of Statistics, published in the Magazine for Employment Affairs, shows that rising life expectancy does not keep pace with life expectancy in good health. With this, public policies to increase the AOW age with life expectancy seem to lead to greater socio-economic inequality. The chances of older workers becoming unemployed or disabled before retirement appear to be increasing, with all the consequences. How does the Minister assess this investigation? What are the consequences of this? Is the Minister prepared to monitor closely the evolution of average life expectancy and life expectancy in health and to report periodically to the Chamber on this and, if necessary, to link policy implications to this? I would like to make a few comments on the calculation rate for long-term pension liabilities: the UFR. The long-awaited research results confirm our expectations. The new calculation rate reduces coverage rates by an average of 5%. Commitments to be included will increase by 60 billion. This is at the expense of pension building and pension benefits. The chance of discounts in 2017 and beyond is increasing. This makes the current pension contract more interest-sensitive. That's exactly what 50PLUS doesn't want. It is contrary to the intention of the new financial review framework, which seeks to bring more stability. 50PLUS considers this an unwise calculation rate policy. We're charging ourselves unnecessarily poor. Of course, there is also a low market interest rate and the exceptional ECB policy to keep that interest rate low, but why should its negative impact be reinforced at the same time with a lower UFR, which is significantly lower than the European UFR used for insurers? We are going to miss our common goal, a good retirement provision for everyone. A review of the UFR seems appropriate. Is the Secretary of State prepared to urge the Netherlands Bank to review the UFR? Even after the establishment of the Pension Communication Act, we must continue to work to improve communication and bring pension closer to the people. What does the Secretary of State think of the idea of asking pension funds to make data available to banks via Mijnpensioenoverzicht.nl, so that the customer, if he consents to do so, has continuous insight into his accumulated pension through his mobile banking app? That way you could bring it very easily and very quickly close to a lot of people, young and old. Is the Secretary of State prepared to start consultations with interested parties to this end? I come to poverty and debt policy. Poverty in the age group 45 and over is a problem that is at risk of increasing. According to yesterday's CBS figures, the number of beneficiaries aged 45 and over has increased by 3.000. 45-plussers entering the assistance generally remain dependent on it for a long time. At present, there are no less than 215 000 people. In addition, the number of people with an IOAW benefit increased by more than half from 2009 to 23,000. What far-reaching operation does the cabinet provide to prevent more and more 45-plussers from slipping further towards poverty? Finally, I would like to make an urgent appeal with regard to debt restructuring. More and more people are getting into financial trouble. One in five households have high-risk debts, according to research commissioned by Social Affairs last week. This problem is getting worse. Many municipalities offer help. That's their legal job. That is also wise, because there are a lot of commercial companies, not all of them, which do not help people in debt, but work even further down the drain. However, the debt approach is very different from municipality to municipality. It is also good to distinguish between people who want to do everything they can to get back on their feet, and I admit it: you also have people who are not really going to do anything about it. In addition, there is a considerable difference between the assistance provided to employed or self-employed persons and small self-employed persons. In the eyes of 50PLUS, the latter group is still not being helped sufficiently. Due to personal circumstances or the financial crisis of recent years, many small self-employed people have gone under the financial heading. Until recently, they were mostly hard-working citizens, who paid a decent tax and created a lot of jobs. When they get into trouble, many municipalities leave them to their fate too much. It is right that the National Ombudsman should now investigate this issue. After all, after a debt restructuring, this group could be in full swing again. Such people have learned from their mistakes and can become excellent entrepreneurs in the future. In our country, it is almost impossible, because we do not provide sufficient guidance to this group and because, for example, the Tax Administration hardly thinks about it or shows any coulance. What can the Minister do to improve this situation and to streamline the behaviour of various municipalities? Surely your financial future shouldn't depend on the city where you happen to live? What does the Minister think of the recently launched plan in the municipality of Rotterdam? That is where stalled entrepreneurs can go for help without putting money on the table, which is not there at the time. We're considering tabling a motion at this point. How do we make the Tax Administration a solution-oriented thinker instead of an impersonal body that wants to collect euros in particular, which often fails to do so? Instead, let us ensure that tax can be paid again by those same citizens in the future. According to the Association for Debt Assistance, the government should no longer be the first to take its turn if debts are to be recovered. What does the Minister think of this suggestion? Isn't it time for a less dominant role for the government as a creditor? Can the Minister urge municipalities to encourage officials in charge of debt restructuring to speed up the process? Now, people in debt can often go to the government for consultation after many weeks, and sometimes even after months, while they are now motivated to return to life and do their utmost to get rid of debt. At this late hour, I would like to add my voice to previous contributions from colleagues who have addressed the UWV issue. It is certainly no wonder, with many cuts, that a personal approach and customization have become very difficult. Hopefully that will change with additional budget. I also agree with the comments made by several previous speakers on the need for a strong policy of integration, anti-discrimination and participation. That is and will continue to be necessary. There too, prejudices often play a part, as with the elderly. Mr Heerma's proposals on compulsory insurance in principle are welcomed by 50PLUS. The basic idea of breaking the existing stalemate on pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness is sensible, but there are also hooks and eyes. It is good that the ESC is consulted on this. Finally, I have a question for the Secretary of State. On the website of the government, it is stated in its task list "Participation of the elderly." Can I ask her what activities and measures it is carrying out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u545	Mr. Chairman. Minister Asscher on the subject of integration policy. That was on the front page of the General Daily last year. Today is in the Dutch newspaper: Minister Asscher for the Chamber. Last year we were in Mr Kuzu's room. A year later, the VVD says: no more fine words, but deeds. A year later, the VVD says, "We'll give you an F." That is Mr Asscher's coalition partner. Last night, this minister was with Pauw. He made a tired and defeated impression. He himself talked about his own application if he would get an incompetence from the VVD. He got it. My first question to Mr Asscher is: have you already written your letter? I heard tonight that the mayor's post in Eindhoven was released. People want to know what three years Asscher has brought us. Let's talk about this, about the malpractice, the mess of Asscher. I'll call them one by one. The number of unemployed was at that time Minister Asscher, not rosy. That's what you get with as a forerunner a cabinet with an extreme right-wing doger. In 2012, when Minister Asscher took office, 516.000 people were unemployed. In October 2015, unemployment amounted to 617,000 people. That is an absolute increase of over 100,000 people. This minister is not the Minister for Employment, but of 100,000 additional unemployed. He's the minister of unemployment. If only we were in the year 2012. Even at the height of the crisis, the situation was better than it is now. When all ministries had to cut back, this minister received 600 million euros in 2013 for his sector plans. 600 million for jobs. Jobs were top priority for the Labour Party. 'Work, work, work' has become 'unemployment, unemployment, unemployment'. What is the effect of these jobs? There are 100,000 unemployed. You put 600 million euros in it and you get over 100,000 unemployed out of it. We'd like the minister to look in the mirror. What does he see? Why does he think this minister has failed? Certain groups are particularly screwed with this minister. Over the past three years, the number of older people in the WW has increased by almost 60,000. Older people's unemployment seems to be rising more rapidly than public debt in Greece. The Minister's policy has not worked at all. Why can't we solve the old-age unemployment? Yesterday the Minister came up again with a plan for 66,000 young people. Asscher wants to follow the youth until he's 27. I think it's time we followed this minister. He has wanted to follow too many organisations too often lately. When the minister comes up with a plan, with another diversion to cover up his actions, I hold my heart. This will certainly be more unemployment than employment. Certain groups of young people deserve priority from this minister. They don't notice the growth. In 2012, the number of unemployed young people with a non-Western background was 128.000. Now this is 154,000. This is the minister of 26,000 extra unemployed young people with a migrant background. Unemployment among this group is rising even faster than the number of voters leaving the PvdA. How does the Minister feel about this? I come to the Motivation study with which the Minister has severely damaged groups of young people. Is the Minister finally going to apologize to the young people who have not been given a job as a result? Will the Minister investigate the consequences of the Motivation investigation? Is he going to look at the Medialogica programme, at the Minister's desired results? Why is the unemployment approach of this cabinet not working? DENK believes that this cabinet is too busy handing out pacifiers to the voters. It is working on the 2017 elections and not enough on the reality of 2015. The reliefs and leave days for fathers are in our opinion beautiful pacifiers. The position of SMEs is at least as important, because SMEs are the job engine of the Netherlands. The payment of wages in case of illness is a barrier to hiring people. I'm not just saying that. That's what half the small businessmen say. The Minister keeps putting that file before him. He doesn't come back with a letter until 2016. Maybe that's his suicide note, because a year later, the election. Are you gonna be okay? Does the duration of the payment of wages become shorter without harming employees? In any case, this will work better than the sectoral plans, with under-utilisation of EUR 120 million. In addition to the VVD, the companies also drop this minister. Why is the sector plans so difficult? Shouldn't we have put that money somewhere else? We see opportunities in the craft economy and in business transfers. Failed business transfers cost 80,000 jobs a year. In the next ten years, 500,000 jobs will disappear in the craft economy. Is the Minister prepared to spend part of the EUR 120 million on this? Invest where there are opportunities. I come to the chapter on integration. DENK believes that this minister is a minister of the monitoring and distrust of minorities, not a bridge builder, but a double-sizer. An action plan against anti-Semitism, but not against Muslim hatred. There is money for security of synagogues, but not for mosques. That's not how you promote integration and mutual acceptance, Minister. There is an increasing trend in cases of discrimination. Amnesty International and the UN are addressing the Netherlands on this issue. People with a migrant background are twice less likely to get a job, it turned out recently. And what does the Minister come up with? With a billboard campaign. What does DENK think? DENK has proposed an educational measure on discrimination and a racism register, but the Minister does not want that. Then we'll come up with a new suggestion. Have the labour market discrimination team perform locus applications at the SZW Inspection. This will enable discriminatory companies to be dealt with. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. There are two other injustices that need to be addressed. The first is the pay gap between women and men. Women's pay is on average 7.2% lower than men's. In government, that's 4%. On an annual salary that is over €1,500. Is the Minister prepared to take that hard and set an example for companies? DENK proposes to have the inspection vetted, to eliminate wage inequality in the government and to financially compensate these women. In addition, there is the injustice that applies to Surinamese-Dutch elderly people in the AOW. Mr Krol has paid great attention to this. I'm rounding up. Today, we talked about three years of Minister Asscher, the minister who was brought by the PvdA from Amsterdam to clean up the ruins of the dowry partner PVV. The PvdA was given the confidence of the voters to create jobs, but this minister did not repay the voter's confidence. He's only brought unemployment. This minister has failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u546	I fully agree with you that we must tackle all forms of discrimination. Now you will undoubtedly also hear again the hateful statements of Rector Akgündüz of the Islamic University, I am not making it up, it may have heard in the Netherlands about the assassination of a human rights lawyer in Turkey, whom he condone. Before that, he called Kurds dogs. He calls opponents of Erdogan gays and Armenians. That's for calling him names, because he thinks they're bad. Do you distance yourself from that? Do you share our view that such a person, who should have an exemplary role for his students, should not be able to fulfil that role?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u547	Any form of hatred, any form of violence, any form of discrimination, we are far from ourselves. The problem of this Chamber and of Mrs Karabulut is that she only comes up with such examples and that she is a hypocrite. All other times, when other groups with which she sympathizes make statements, she does not have the guts to criticize them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u548	The question is whether Mr Öztürk distanced himself from these hateful, exclusive, inflammatory and even condoning statements following an attack on a human rights lawyer in Turkey. Doesn't Mr Öztürk dare to openly distance himself from that? Does he think this is normal? Doesn't he find this discriminatory? If that is the case, Mr President, because, fortunately, we have freedom of expression, within the limits of our law, then he has no right to speak anymore with regard to the fight against discrimination, and certainly not with regard to the accusations he makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u549	Mrs. Karabulut does that a lot. Does she really think I'd fall for that? Is she serious? I have said that we are fighting against all statements from anyone, including the group with which they sympathise. I would add, once again, that statements by certain groups of people are greatly highlighted in this Chamber, and others are not. The way in which we criticise this is up to us. We do this in a dialogue, in a diplomatic way. The Netherlands always did. We were the country of dialogue, not the country of fighting. We were not the land of every month or every week calling on the ambassador. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u550	Mrs Karabulut, you were allowed to ask your question twice. Mr Öztürk replied. I suggest we go to the next speaker. I give the floor to Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u551	Mr. Chairman. Professor Huntington said in the 1990s: integration will be one of the most important issues of our modern age. It is linked with everything: immigration policy, clashing cultures and radicalisation, and more fundamental, with the future of Western societies. To know where we are going, it is always good to see where we come from and how we ended up in the current situation. In 1985, for the first time, sufficient integration was mentioned in the law. At that time, this was directly linked to the acquisition of Dutch citizenship. It was sufficient if one had reasonable knowledge of the Dutch language and had accepted into society. What this meant, however, was never worked out. However, it was explicitly stated that written language knowledge was excluded. A brief chat with a city official was enough. It was even permitted by law to conclude that older people, illiterate people and people with limited training were sufficiently well established even in the event of poor language control. How toxic cultural relativism can be is demonstrated by the fact that women were even less demanding, because "the role of women in some cultures should not stand in the way of ultimate naturalisation." Thus the guide of the National Law of 1985. It was the opposite world: immigrants did not adapt to the Netherlands, the Netherlands adapted to immigrants, and still to a core value of our society, the equality of men and women. Unfortunately, this wasn't the end of it. Unfortunately, in 1996 we heard the Labour Party say that there was no need for written control of the language by immigrants at all. For the Labour Party, literacy was apparently not necessary to participate in modern society. Writing and reading were an unnecessary luxury in the eyes of this party. Unfortunately, there were more parties that considered cultural relativism to be more important than self-reliance and real integration of immigrants. For example, D66 and GroenLinks argued that knowledge of society was not necessary at all. Issues such as freedom of expression, equality between men and women and homosexuals and the separation of Church and State were not relevant in the eyes of these parties. If it were up to the left, as an immigrant, you could become a fully-fledged citizen without being able to write or read, or even have any idea of the values and norms that apply here. Welcome to the Netherlands. The consequences of this disastrous policy are visible to this day. Think of a huge over-representation of non-Western immigrants in assistance, early school leaving and crime, but certainly also of language disadvantages and views that clash with the western core values, or of the fact that young people from the Netherlands even voluntarily join jihadist organizations in the Middle East. These cases illustrate the enormous problem. In combination with an immigration record and the tens of thousands of asylum seekers entering our country, these cases are a poisonous cocktail. The establishment still doesn't make the right diagnosis. There are deradicalisation pathways and socio-economic explanations for Islamic extremism. People are spreading the fable that social despair is the cause of terror, that society has done too little. So it is actually said that it is the fault of ourselves. This is a completely incorrect but, above all, extremely risky reasoning. The French Algerian integration expert Malika Sorel points out in her book The dissolution of France the cultural cause of radicalisation. It rejects socio-economic statements. That's what she's doing. The French anti-terrorist centre UCLAT indicates that as many as 67% of jihadists from the West come from the middle class, not from the underclass. It's not a material issue. It's about culture, about a collision of civilizations. Because why do Vietnamese and Chinese often do much better in our societies than, for example, Somalis and Moroccans? Can the Minister answer that? Certainly not all of them, but large groups of Muslim immigrants reject the West. This rejection is reinforced by an establishment which constantly points to the so-called victimisation of immigrants. In the case of unemployment, in the case of crime and even in the case of participation in the jihad, we hear journalists, politicians and social scientists pointing to the mistakes of Western society, to discrimination and to exclusion. But immigrants aren't pathetic. The immigrant's responsibility is taken away from him. After all, according to policy makers, he is a victim. Precisely this victimism is the best fuel for resentment and hatred. It is felt by the immigrant and preached by a cowardly policy, which does not like its own culture and for that reason the immigrant actually has nothing to offer. That is why politics has no answer to this growing problem. The Netherlands and the whole of the West should protect their open and free society. But at the beginning of my speech I pointed out that freedom is something other than non-committalism. Make heavy demands, including in terms of language, and actually integrate immigrants. Stop preaching victimization. Act hard in crime and infractions. Enter an Australian immigration model and capture asylum seekers only in the region. Education all young people the added value and achievements of our Western society. Turn off people who don't want to be here or who call for violence and extremism. And re-enter the service. The social stability of the country is at stake. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to the measures put forward. Another major problem is the rise in unemployment. We still have over 600,000 unemployed in the Netherlands, despite all job plans and reintegration paths. If this cabinet really wants to reduce the number of unemployed and increase economic growth, it must significantly reduce taxes, deregulate them and give the money back to the citizen. The best job plan is the reduction of taxes. Work towards a flat tax of 23%. Uniformise VAT rates up to 15%. Reduce corporate tax rates. Reduce the excise duty. Individualise the pension and flexibilize the labour market. That is possible, because our tax plans have been properly calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. This cabinet does not opt for economic growth and employment, but for left-wing justice, for assistance, for supplements and for supplements. This cabinet keeps people trapped in an income group. More work, after all, means the loss of supplements. This cabinet does nothing to reduce the marginal pressure. That's bad. My group is in favour of dismantling the premium circus, of making more work really rewarding, of economic growth and thus more jobs, and of substantially reducing taxes. I'm rounding up. The Netherlands needs a clear and firm path towards integration. The Netherlands needs more jobs, much lower taxes and much more economic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u552	We are going to listen to the last speaker in the first term of the Chamber, Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u553	Mr. Chairman. Free-minded politics means a facilitating government to let people be free, without patronizing, but with support where it really has to, to give people opportunities. That is why I am in favour of an unconditional basic income. I have already argued for this in the last two treatments of the SZW budget. That was systematically rejected by the Cabinet and this Chamber. To give people the perspective, I now turn to an initiative paper on basic income. I hope to be able to offer this here at the beginning of the year. Earlier questions from me about low-level assistance as some sort of surrogate basic income would be studied by the Secretary of State. And yes, the Secretary of State has not been idle in this area. I understand that last November she had a conversation with the aldermen of Utrecht, Groningen, Tilburg and Wageningen about their plan to experiment with less stringent welfare benefits. Will the Secretary of State now investigate whether it is possible to make the experiments possible under the current Participation Act and can she tell us more about it? I'm very curious about this. Although it does not yet resemble a basic income as seen by the Free Party, it can contribute to the understanding of the way of thinking behind the basic income. I am talking about the idea that basic income creates opportunities for free people to fill in their lives as they would like without the patronizing rules that cripple all creativity. The basic income is no longer a safety net but a trampoline in order to be independent in life. I would like to look forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State to this. A facilitating government means a government that supports free people in their desires how they want to shape their lives. With every new policy to be implemented, you should ask yourself what problem is being solved and above all what new problem is being created. I am thinking of problems that arise, for example, as a result of the parts of the Wwz, also called the Work and Insecurity Act. The minister thought he would give employees more security by ensuring them a permanent contract if there were less than six months between the contracts instead of the old three months. The result: people do not receive a new contract at all. In short, nothing solved, but created a new problem. Thanks to this arrangement designed by the Minister, people are falling into the rain. People who do something, for example, at a sports club as a trainer or in other ways do temporary work, suffer from this. For example, on my previous question concerning sports trainers, the Minister had indicated that he would talk to the sports federations. I ask him what the result of this is. I do not see it in the overview we received last week. Both the people themselves and the employers have no use for this six-month scheme. The Minister also sees the problem and tries with some plaster work to restore the goal, but a real solution remains. It is still too early to intervene, I understand the Minister. Doesn't the well need to be muffled until the calf drowns? Even if you look at the evaluation questions put by the Minister himself in the annex, he has no regard for the undesirable side effects. He merely asks whether the intended goal is achieved, for example whether the sports trainer can still work. What should then be the evaluation is unclear. Can the Minister also take into account the undesirable side effects in his evaluation? This is the only way to get a complete picture of the effect of the Wwz. Wouldn't it make much more sense to turn the six-month period back to the three-month period? Why does he hold on to this if it doesn't contribute? A motion to reverse that deadline is ready for the second term. A facilitating government also means the timely renewal of old-fashioned rigid ideas, so that free people are not hindered by obstacles and rigid regimes in shaping their lives. I am thinking here of the flexibility of the AOW, on which we are putting forward an initiative proposal, hopefully before Christmas. But you can also see that in many people who work as a zzp'er. That number is growing and that is a good development: independent people who give substance to their work themselves. The ibo zzp gives an image, but I also see that as a positive image. However, we will have to adapt the old social security system based on employment. There is no security, not even with employees. So self-employment and the flexibilisation of work should not be stopped cramped, but should be facilitated. Think positive and remove the shadow sides. How does the Minister intend to support real free enterprise? Facilitation sounds simple, but often I receive e-mails from people who do not see the policy of the cabinet as facilitating. Sometimes the intentions of the cabinet are good, but the outcome is unhappy. I am thinking, for example, of the cost-sharing standard. We would like to see the own strength of free people stimulated, in which they can engage their own network, the people in their environment. However, there is no question of promoting the network because of the cost sharing standard. It is precisely this standard that prevents stimulation; even more so, it hinders it. This makes giving help to family or friends too expensive. Taking someone in temporarily to help him out of the fire or providing care should be praised instead of fined for cutting people's income. In its letter of 24 November "Result demand-out practice experiences and cost-sharing standard," the VNG made a number of concrete recommendations to remove the greatest irritation. For example, the recommendations advocate a discretionary power of the municipality to offer a solution in distressing cases so that more customisation is possible. In this way, people are less opposed to their desire to help others. Is the Secretary of State prepared to implement these recommendations? In the letter on the elderly unemployment of 30 November, the Minister states that he is in favour of a figurehead for older workers. Like that's gonna solve anything. Just look at the vague results of the now discontinued Ambassador Youth unemployment. Moreover, youth unemployment is rising again. One thing I do know: when you put the emphasis on a particular group instead of people with talents, experiences and knowledge, you get a problem. That group will always be a group and treated differently from individual people. Isn't that contrary to the Minister's objective? Doesn't the Minister want the older employee, the 45-pluser, to be seen the same as any other employee, so that he can be treated the same? It does not make it more attractive to employ older workers in a certain way. They are therefore extra stigmatized and associated with old and perhaps written off. This is also reflected in the policy against discrimination. If you emphasize the differences, these people will always remain different and you will achieve the opposite of what you want. For example, a figurehead of ageing unemployment will not solve anything. It's symbolic politics at most. The Minister wrote to the Chamber this week that older people's unemployment is mainly due to the fact that 45-plussers are more expensive than younger workers. Take the problem with the cause, then you will have effect. Is the Minister prepared to consider how to reduce the burden on older workers on labour so that these people become attractive again to the labour market without stigmatizing them? Can the Minister include this line in the action plan for the older worker? I come to my final point. People from war zones and unsafe areas must also be given opportunities. You read about refugees, but you always talk about people. Free-minded politics means giving you room for shelter. These people must then be able to invest in their future, invest in order to integrate. It is good that we offer people safety. This should be based more on reciprocity. We give students a study advance: money to live and learn from, so they can invest in their own future with perspective. A similar arrangement should be put in place for people who have fled and want to stay here. I would call it a status advance: money to live and learn, so that they can invest in and work on their own future. Status holders can get to work, just like graduates who get a job, and then repay the loan for an investment in their future on favourable terms. We give people safety and offer them a chance for a future. People who have fled and stay here, invest in that future themselves. That's reciprocity. Integration is always a two-way street: from those who integrate and those who accept. I look forward to receiving a response from the Minister to my proposal. That concludes my nightly contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u554	Thank you very much, Mr Klein. This has put an end to the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-26.u555	Tomorrow, after the first term of the Chamber of the Agriculture and Nature section of the budget treatment EZ, we will proceed with the answer. I wish you all a good night's sleep.
