ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and give Mrs Leijten the floor on behalf of the SP Group as the first speaker. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. We all saw the commercials in the autumn: The Netherlands is changing, the care changes. And how! Cuts on home care and daily spending aren't gonna put you in the cold clothes. Care homes disappear and elderly people stay longer in the hospital. Protective housing forms are under pressure. Fires and pay dumps are the order of the day. However, the commercials say: you must always be able to count on care and support. Whoever delivers them is only the question, because the cabinet in the Wmo has abolished the right to care. How does such a ruling actually relate to all those people who get lost in the booths looking for care, or those older people who have to sue in order to get necessary care? Kitchen table conversations, however well-meaning, show kitchen table announcements: you get less care. And you know what? There's a lot in the papers about what changes in care. The Secretary of State even said that the coverage might scare people. The government didn't. She had slogans with which she was going to make the spirits ripe for the austerity operation and with which she even wanted to excite them, a kind of money laundering operation. However, the Advertising Code Commission considered that this was not such a good idea. These commercials consistently did not list the disadvantages of, for example, the huge cuts or changes in care. The public has also been misinformed for a long time, she says in her judgment. In the commercials, an incomplete picture has been drawn of the impact of changes in care for citizens. Vulnerable citizens have therefore been misled by the cabinet through slick commercials about the austerity operation. After a month of legal battle, there is now a verdict, but evil has already been done, of course. Is the Minister now proud of this way of doing things? What exactly does the Minister think he can do to restore public confidence in the government as a result of these misleading commercials? Would she not agree that these ads, which you can of course find on the Internet, should be accompanied by a warning that they have been found misleading by the Advertising Code Commission? What exactly did this whole exercise cost? In a debate I just had with the Minister, she clearly indicated that it is not as good when advertising leads to the wrong picture or perhaps to the use of care. We agree. However, would it not be a good idea for the Minister today to promise not to make and distribute misleading advertising himself, and that if she is engaged in an information campaign, that would be the profession of the Advertising Code Commission: it is not a commercial commercial, but an information campaign, it is limited to factual and neutral information? There's a beautiful English pronunciation. I have translated it into Dutch, because we are here in the Dutch Parliament. I would like to end by saying to the Minister: you can sometimes fool all people, you can always fool some people, but you can't fool all people forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are having a debate here today on confidence in politics in general and in the government in particular. Then I am talking about the confidence that people can have in a government that provides accurate and correct information. The role is to discuss the care spots. It seemed like you were talking about "pots of care," Mr. Chairman, but it's about the care spots. A lot of people have been extremely annoyed by what I'm going to call the Efteling movies that appeared on TV at the end of last year. People sometimes think that when you talk about long-term care, you talk about exceptions, about seriously ill people. But if everyone who is present in this Chamber today, in Parliament or in the public gallery watching this debate wonders whether he has someone with a disability or chronic illness, or a senior father, mother, uncle or aunt in his family, then it turns out that each of us is involved in the reforms in long-term care. Then when you've talked to those relatives or friends, you've heard how worried people are about the care. The CDA has had a lot of meetings in the country over the last few months with that title. Then you turned on the TV at night and then a beautiful video came along that promised that everything would get better and people would get all the care they have. Reality is different. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that it will affect people and notice that it will be less if you reform at this rate and at this rate, with the cuts immediately on 1 January? If the answer to that question is yes, would it not have been much better to use other educational material, in which precisely these consequences would be addressed? As a politician, I think it's important that you tell people what you're doing, why you're doing it and what the consequences are. That did not happen in this case. I would also like to hear from the Minister why she initially appealed against the initial judgment of the Advertising Code Commission. Why even came out at some point that she wasn't willing to keep the commercials offline? Is that right and, if so, why? Is it prepared to say here that this was not wise in the end? I'll see if I've said anything about this. That's the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. I am allowed to replace my colleague, Mrs Agema, for once today. Then the voice-override goes on. Care changes, and the Netherlands changes with it. In the Netherlands everyone gets the care they need. I'm going to do it again in my own voice, but then we all know what I'm talking about: the commercials. That is whether you have a high income or a low income, whether you are young or old. But it won't stay that way, and we were proud of that. Society must change on the orders of Brussels. That is why we need to change the way we organise care. People have to stay home longer, but care cannot respond to this. People have to take care of more themselves, whether they can or not. If the demand for care continues to increase, we will have to pay even more attention to the costs. So we cannot guarantee that everyone will continue to receive the care that is needed. The next commercial. From 1 January the care in the Netherlands is organized differently. This way, care and support will be reduced and we will keep it affordable. The neighborhood nurse won't be coming to Sara's house for her medication and Mrs Pietermaai won't be getting any professional support. Whether you just want to understand your healthcare costs or, like Mr. Berg, have to move to a health care facility, care will never be what he has been. Next. This is the story of Mrs Pietermaai. She lives alone, can't do everything herself and is bad on her feet. Fortunately, her cousin is helping with everything he can, but professionals and municipalities will no longer provide additional support. The municipality has deleted the support and Mrs Pietermaai is no longer getting the help she needs. There will be no stair lift, because Mrs Pietermaai could have foreseen that the stairs would become increasingly difficult and could take this into account. She should have moved to a ground floor house at an earlier stage. Her cousin has to do more or she'll have to pay for the care all by herself. This is the story of Jasper and Sara. Sara is chronically ill. Fortunately, Jasper can take care of a lot, such as cooking, taking care of the children and shopping, but not everything. A neighborhood nurse came to Sara recently to administer the medication, but now there is a waiting list for the neighborhood nurse and Jasper has to do this himself. This is why Jasper has to quit his job. Mr. Berg has been ill for a while. He's lost every day and can't take care of himself anymore. Following consultation with his wife, it is decided that Mr Berg should move to a health care institution, but in the institutions nearby there is no room for austerity. So Mr. Berg has to go to an institution further away from home. There is so few staff there, Mrs Berg said, that she regularly finds her husband soaked with urine and dull from the medications. People who need intensive care or supervision 24 hours a day cannot continue to rely on it. This is the honest story, and fortunately the Advertising Code Committee concludes that. I therefore call on the Minister, also on behalf of my colleague, to make commercials that incorporate the fair story. That's exactly what I've been through. Unfortunately, I have to go now, but we're looking at the answers upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot changing in care. People need to know where to go when they need care support and what changes for them. It is therefore important that people are informed. With the care ads, the VWS Ministry has made an effort to inform, reach and encourage people to gain information about the changes and their possible effects on their own situation. The PvdA thinks it is a good idea in itself to try to reach as many people as possible via TV and radio commercials. This way you can inform people about the changes in care. There are many images about these changes. Some are justified, some are unjustified. However, we must not deny that things are changing. For some people this will lead to improvements, but for those who have to pay more themselves or arrange more, that is of course different. We can say a lot about the commercials. Personally, I didn't think they were so successful; paraphrases have already been made. However, I am not going to comment on the quality of those commercials, the trickiness or the opinion given by the Advertising Code Commission on this matter. The commercials aren't broadcast anymore either. More importantly, I think that it turns out that people want to know what is going on in their own specific situation. What changes for me personally? This is also reflected in the progress report on long-term care reforms and in studies conducted by patient organisations. Of course, general commercials do not contribute to this. People need to be informed in person. That can also make misunderstandings go away. During the last general discussion on the progress of changes in long-term care, we also discussed this in detail. I therefore have the following questions for the Minister. Can the Minister indicate what steps they, municipalities, health insurance companies and health care offices are going to take to inform people as best they can about the specific personal situation in which they find themselves and the possible changes that will take place in the coming year? How does the Minister involve the healthcare providers? I think it would be wise to use this debate to draw attention to the personal situation of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr Van Dijk says that he personally did not think the commercials were so successful. That is, of course, far too easy. Of course, we want to know what the PvdA Group thought about these commercials.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u7	I am speaking on behalf of the PvdA Group. I'm saying I didn't like all those commercials either. So I'm standing here on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you, because then the conclusion is that the PvdA Group did not think the commercials were so successful. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u10	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u11	Okay. I see that Mrs Leijten has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u12	Apart from the fact that the commercials are incomplete and too positive and they do not present any disadvantages and therefore do not give them a nuanced picture to say it in my own words: citizens are spelled a story on the sleeve. The Advertising Code Commission also advises the Minister not to make commercials in this way. What is the opinion of the Labour Party on this opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u13	I believe that the opinion of the Advertising Code Committee is crystal clear: not in this way. I think we should learn from it how to inform people in the future. I'm assuming the Ministry's intention was to take people into what changes in care. This isn't how it works. It is also too general; I have indicated this in my contribution. It turns out that people mainly need information about what it means to their own situation, for their own mother, grandpa or grandma. So I think we should use this to figure out how to do it. Then how do we take people? How do we ensure that they are informed about changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u14	The defence of VWS was that it had to be an informative campaign and that there was a reference to the website, so that everyone could look up their own information. However, the commercials are too rosy. They only give a positive picture, about situations where care is preserved and the changes do not intervene in personal life. That is what the Advertising Code Commission says that these commercials should no longer be made in this way. I would like to hear what the PvdA Group thinks about this. Does the PvdA group also think that you should not make commercials that are too rosy and therefore not informative?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u15	Of course, pots that are too rosy can't. The most important thing I think is that the Advertising Code Commission says that, although the campaign jars correctly reflect legal claims to care, they could have been more informative by pointing out more explicitly that the care they receive may differ in individual situations. Hence my appeal to the Minister: how do we ensure that people, after these general commercials, now know that something is going to change, get much more insight into what this means for their own situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u16	The final file, the profession, is 20 pages long, so we can quote from it what we want, but because the government has not mentioned any disadvantages of its policy, people are also misinformed. That wasn't just because it was too general. It seems to me right that the Labour Party should also emphasise this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mrs Leijten, the interruptions are really in two. This was not an interruption either, but a remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr. Chairman. If the government is making major changes, it is very important for the same government to make an effort to inform the public properly. This is particularly true in the case of changes in health care, because by definition such changes are accompanied by a great deal of public violence by the opponents. Words like "care is broken down" or "care is stripped" are not of the air and are eagerly picked up in the press. The VVD therefore has a great deal of understanding for the chosen approach to the campaign "The Netherlands is changing, care is changing." It is an understandable, calm and clear information campaign. However, the Advertising Code Commission decided that the campaign was contrary to the advertising code. That judgment was upheld on appeal. This kind of statement has to be followed and the Ministry has therefore rightly stopped the campaign. The good news is that all the noise has brought extra attention to the changes in care. In this respect, the public campaign can be regarded as a success, although of course this is not the royal road. However, the VVD remains left with a few questions. To what extent does the Ministry see room for itself for information campaigns on changes in care? In what way can the government still inform citizens of major changes in healthcare in a manner agreed by the Advertising Code Commission? It can't be that citizens are at the mercy of one-sided oppositional information. Thank you, Mr President. Oh, I'm pulling some strings!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u19	Did I miss something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u20	Did you also find out from those commercials that when you're 91 years old and you don't get up the stairs, you don't get a stair lift because you should've moved? Did the commercials also show that in January last year the Environment and Infrastructure Council said that there were tens of thousands of adapted housing shortages, especially for this group of elderly people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u21	The commercials are about major changes in care that lead us to take care and support tailored to people at municipal level. In addition, we will look carefully at what people can organise and pay for themselves. The things they can't take care of on their own will be customized. Last week I was in Sweden, a country in which people have been doing this for more than twenty years: tailor-made and with differences between municipalities. That's no problem at all. I have a lot of faith in that. The commercials are generally about that change. The developments in Sweden alone show that people can also have confidence in this type of change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u22	The answer to that first question was no. I'm gonna try again. The commercials show, for example, that for helping the household, people are referred to general services, especially in the middle incomes, a group for which the VVD once had a warm heart, the bill is fully paid. Didn't that come out of the commercials, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u23	It is quite an art that Mrs Keijzer is able to drop the word'middle income' in every debate, even if that is totally irrelevant to the nature of this debate. These commercials are not about these kinds of things and details but about the general changes. And we're gonna support people on a tailor-made basis. This also means that for middle-income people there will be tailor-made support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u24	There's no arguing about taste. If the VVD thinks it is an understandable and quiet campaign by the government, then that is of course allowed. The Commission's Advertising Code has said that it is out of balance and too positive and too rosy and that no disadvantages are mentioned, which means that the public has been misinformed and even damaged by confidence in advertising. So it's two judgments that break up. Mr Rutte felt that the government had a duty to contradict the opposition in its own commercials. That brings me to the question of whether he thinks that the government should be independent or that it should aim to neutralize the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u25	I conclude that my total contribution so far has lasted 1 minute and 20 seconds and that Mrs Leijten's interruption is even longer. Apart from that, I am concerned that around the changes in the care there is a constant stream of reports from the opposition that are being publicly picked up. That is similar to what Mrs Leijten did in the first term. Now she quotes from the verdict as it stands. In the first term, she used the word "misleading" five times. And what's in the verdict? Not misleading. This kind of violence, which is apparently constantly being picked up and interpreted as truth, must be countered by a calm, careful campaign by a government that is making a careful change in care. Was it completely complete? The Advertising Code Commission doesn't think so. And so the campaign can't go on. I have to back that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u26	The latter is relevant, namely that the VVD says that this advertising campaign can no longer be done because an advertising campaign does not fit the government. If the VVD thinks that the SP is too much in the media, it should try to get into the news itself. That's how the media work. In any case, the government should be independent. If you are making major changes, you must give objective information about them. I think it is a great deal that Mr Rutte says here: as a government, we need a campaign, because in reality it turns out that the consequences of the policy are so negative. I would like to know from the VVD which message from the SP in the media has not been true lately. That is what Mr Rutte is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u27	I'm not suggesting anything. I agree with a fact that I have just noticed. In her first-term speech, Mrs Leijten used the word "misleading" several times in relation to the Commission's statement on the Advertising Code. I think the Minister will answer the question as to whether there has been misleading advertising. It is simply factually incorrect; the information given in the government campaign was factually correct, but only not complete enough. Well, we can't, and that's why we might have to do it differently in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u28	Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. The Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr. Chairman. The expressions about changes in care on radio and TV are part of the broad communication programme The Netherlands is changing, the care is changing. This includes a website, leaflets and advertisements. With the public campaign of the Empire, the public has in general been alerted to the changes in care as of 2015. The Chamber has also repeatedly asked for such a public campaign from VWS. VWS has responded to that. Informing people specifically about their personal situation is a matter for the new responsible parties, in particular the municipalities, the health offices and the insurers. What exactly changes for individuals is no longer determined nationally, but by the municipalities, for example. At the time of developing and broadcasting the radio and television broadcasts, municipalities and insurers were not yet able to indicate exactly what was going to change for individual clients. We have discussed this in detail in the Chamber. There you have the dilemma that you say to each other on the one hand that you have to start early, because otherwise people are too late. But on the other hand: if you start early, you obviously don't know a lot. Then it gets more general. That is why we have put together a communication programme very carefully. We didn't do that alone. This communication programme has been shared and has been set up together with client organisations, municipalities, healthcare providers and insurers. It should be, because those expressions on radio and TV refer to a website, but also to the municipalities. If a communication statement indicates that people have to ask their congregation, then the municipality must have a telephone number and someone who takes the phone. This has therefore been coordinated. In our view, the website www.dezorgverandertmee.nl. Very important. People can find much more specific information on that website. That makes sense, because people will have plenty of time to look at what information applies to them. There is also a nationwide information point where people can call for general information. If they have specific and individual questions, their file can be transferred. Then people are not sent from the cabinet to the wall but they immediately end up in the right place. A summary of the impact study on the campaign has now been sent to the Chamber. Some critical findings about the campaign I'm getting from it are a low message transfer for more specific messages and an average lower rating for the campaign than the benchmark. For example, it indicates that practice is sometimes different than the campaign shows. At the same time, the campaign impact study shows an increase in knowledge about the changes at issue, from 80% to 85%. The transmission of the main message that there are changes is good. The research also indicates that changes in care have been given a lot of attention in the media. That has not escaped all of us. And that is also good, because when the media pay attention to this, the citizen has more information. So together we inform the citizen in our own way. Grosso modo gets the campaign a sufficient amount of patients themselves, so from the target group. The campaign started on October 16 with an advertisement in the newspapers, leaflets at pharmacies and general practitioners and expressions on radio and TV. As I said, we see the campaign as a whole. If you need to highlight individual situations in a commercial of a few seconds, you won't get a message crammed in those few seconds. So you have to generalize quite quickly. What solution have we come up with? That we do generalize, but that we put underneath: look at the website. On the website people can be referred to situations that relate much more to their own individual situation. At the end of December, the FNV lodged a complaint about the radio and TV expressions. It was about Mr Berg with regard to the Wlz, about Mrs Pietermaai with regard to the Wmo and about Jasper and Sara with regard to the Zvw and the general expression. In the first instance, the complaint was not dealt with because the Advertising Code Commission did not consider itself competent to deal with the complaint on the basis of previous rulings. After all, it wasn't about advertising. That's also the position VWS has taken in that entire trajectory. We have assumed that if a policy is accepted, we must bring it to the fore. This is not the case if policies have not yet been accepted. Then it is part of the political debate and everyone has an opinion on it. We will never start campaigns on things that have not yet been accepted. We must therefore bring accepted policies to the attention of the people. We do that through commercials on TV. P.O. Box 51 no longer exists. In that context, we have looked at this as a whole. The commercials were meant to draw people's attention to the fact that something changes in the care system. This concerns both long-term and short-term care. We have done so in one major campaign that we always do in the autumn on changes to the Health Insurance Act). Following the appeal of the FNV, the Advertising Code Committee found that it was itself competent. She gave a ruling on 29 January. We have appealed against this. In the appeal case, the Board of Appeal ruled on 1 April. In its ruling, the College of Appeal considers the statements to be contrary to Article 5 of the advertising code. That code states that advertising should not impair confidence in advertising. The College does not consider radio and television to be sufficiently informative by not pointing out possible adverse consequences and by highlighting only situations in which the new regime will continue to apply to care. We have indeed shown situations in which you have the right to care in accordance with the law. The College of Appeal also considers that radio and TV expressions do not sufficiently show that it may be important for the citizen to obtain further information on the possible individual consequences of the amended scheme. You can talk about this very long and wide. We have argued that this is an information campaign. We have nothing to sell. We just want to draw people's attention to the fact that something is changing and that there are means that can be inserted specifically. The Advertising Code Commission has ruled otherwise, and I accept that. We simply lost that point on appeal. The Commission's Advertising Code has said that everything we have said is in accordance with laws and regulations. So it's all as it's actually established, but she wanted to see a nuance in the advantages and disadvantages in different plus and minus situations. I accept that, too. Of course, it has enormous consequences for future information campaigns. We will have to look at our information differently from what we have done so far. We have assumed that we are not selling anything and that we are not facing competitors who are selling anything else. We see it not as a point of sale but as a point of information. If we have to indicate pluses and minuses in an information campaign, I have kept some information campaigns in mind, I think it will have consequences. I think we should take a look at that. To everyone who has asked me what impact it will have, I say that next time we will take a good look at this in mind. We will see how we can set it up in such a way that what is being told is still understandable. When you put all kinds of pluses and minuses together and involve all kinds of individual situations that can also unpack differently, you get a very difficult message in a few seconds. Anyway, we like to take on that challenge. I've been asked why the commercials weren't taken offline. The verdict was made sometime in the evening and during the evening the commercials were taken off. Nothing happened to it initially. At some point as a minister you have a meeting and when you get out of the meeting, you are asked: what will we do with it? Then you look at it and then you read it. I've read and studied it. Then we decided to take the commercials off the site. So they're not on there anymore. I didn't decide to leave them on it at all. I simply said: give me the verdict; I would like to read it myself. I read it myself and decided to take the commercials off, but not because the Advertising Code Commission asked for it. She didn't ask for it. The Advertising Code Commission has said: it is precisely that website that contains all kinds of pluses and minuses and that is why it is not necessary. But I think that the focus is too much on this discussion, while it is my goal to inform people that something is changing. Then I find it regrettable that this discussion continues. That doesn't serve any purpose either. That's why I took the commercials off. Does the Dutch campaign deserve change, care changes the beauty prize? Maybe not, but I fully support the purpose and content of the campaign. A great deal is changing in healthcare. Mrs Keijzer also said that a great deal is changing in a short time, in a very broad sense. So you want a broad campaign, involving the whole world: clients, municipalities, health insurance companies. It's been a very difficult journey. I think it's important that we did that. With the Pronunciation of the Advertising Code Commission in mind, we will do it differently next time; that is obvious. I take the Advertising Code Commission seriously. I come to a number of specific questions. What did the information campaign cost? The cost is about 3 million euros. The budget has been used for campaigns on five topics. It's about the year-end campaign. Every year, VWS conducts such a campaign on the changes in the basic package. There were also commercials about waiting times. Are you on a waiting list? Call your health care provider! There was a commercial to let people, if they have the choice between the GPs and the emergency services, go to the GPs. It is therefore the whole process, including the website, the leaflets and the advertisements. Because the commercials have been taken off the Internet, we don't have to do anything about it anymore. The phase has now begun in which municipalities and insurers are encouraged to provide concrete information to citizens. There are changes and there will always be new questions. They must always be answered according to the person. During the last period, the Secretary of State has had many discussions, including with aldermen. He told them that communication is incredibly important. Municipalities must inform their citizens properly. Most municipalities started in the autumn of 2014. This was done through the local newspaper, information evenings, etc. We have aligned this as much as possible with the national campaign. The Secretary of State's letter of 9 April found that people do not always feel fully and sufficiently informed about the consequences for their individual situation. Sometimes they don't know where to put their questions either. In the programme Attention for everyone and the Monitor Transition Youth, the municipalities make a number of recommendations for the information provision. The Secretary of State has endorsed these recommendations and brought them to the attention of the aldermen. From the Empire (the Ministries of BZK, of VWS and of SZW) three regional days were organised in the spring specifically on communication. About 100 municipalities attended the meetings at a time. VWS maintains a contact network and has organised practical days for municipalities. In addition to the policy approach, the importance of informing citizens was always on the agenda. The Long-term Care and Youth Information Point is and will remain accessible to citizens in 2015 to ask questions about the changes. The hotline Correct Loket, which VWS has set up together with Per Recht and Each (in), is also accessible throughout 2015. It has been agreed with the VNG that it will now take over when it comes to promoting information. The VNG also sees this as its task. Insurers and health care firms inform their clients in their own way. This is often done through the standard communication they have with their people. I have already indicated why we have appealed. We didn't see it as advertising, we saw it as information. We also do not see ourselves in competition with others who want to sell something, no, we see it as a campaign in which you try to attract people to the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u30	I listened very carefully to the Minister. She said that the ruling of the Advertising Code Commission means something for future campaigns. I think that's correct. However, I have a question about the commercials in themselves. It's beautiful. We see Mrs Pietermaai, a beautiful beautiful woman with a very beautiful, sweet cousin in a beautiful interior with a nice music underneath. You really get the feeling that everything is getting better. When she saw the commercial for the first time, didn't the Minister also have the feeling: wait a minute, I know it's going to be less? Didn't she feel like it was supposed to be in those commercials, too? Otherwise the Dutch citizen would not be properly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u31	The commercials were placed in a fictional setting. You immediately saw it was a decor. You can call that tacky and I think it's a bit tacky myself, but it was chosen to make it fictional. You see a general because of it, because everyone is different. That's what we've been trying to tell you. Of course, we looked at the commercials carefully in advance, because we wanted it to be in line with the law. By the way, we also made mistakes. It's important you don't say anything that's changed in the law by now. So mistakes have been made. I explained the ad on Pietermaai in such a way that, in addition to what her cousin does, she can get care and support if necessary. I thought it was very important that that commercial made it clear that it was supplementary. In other words: first you have to do it yourself and if you can't do it, you can go to your congregation for extra help. Next, the ad includes the message "If you want to know more, go to the website De Zorg Verhangert Mee." I understand very well why you say: it is unsatisfactory if you cannot get specific information there. You can invent a hundred situations that are different, but it was not our intention to be complete. We wanted to draw people's attention that things were going to change and that they had to go to the website for more information. Anyway, the Advertising Code Commission made a statement and then you ask me how I looked at those commercials. When I saw those commercials, the Advertising Code Commission wasn't in sight at all. So I looked at this commercial about Mrs Pietermaai, for example, in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mrs Pietermaai was badly on her feet and lived on her own. The chance that Mrs Pietermaai had help in the household was thus 80% or 90%. The Minister must certainly have realised that this household care would be reduced, since she would take a 40% discount on household services in the WMO on 1 January. That is what happened in the end, because almost all the municipalities said at first: it doesn't matter, everyone to two o'clock. I cannot imagine that the Minister did not realize this when she decided on this reform and austerity. You sure that wasn't her head shot when she saw that commercial?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u33	I thought it was important that that commercial made it clear that the care is additional to what you can arrange for yourself. That's why the cousin was in there. You can judge all that in your own way, but that was the intention. That cousin stood before us for her social network: Mrs Pietermaai tries to do it herself and if she does not, she first calls on her cousin. If all that doesn't offer enough comfort, you're going to the city. That's how I looked at it, because I'm not gonna do a commercial in the air if I think that's gonna cause problems in advance. That's not how we're in this business, is it? I do accept the judgment of the Advertising Code Commission that I should do it differently next time. We will. If you ask me how I looked at that commercial, I will say: Mrs Pietermaai does what she can, the cousin tries to do what she can't do and then she goes to the municipality. So that cousin stands for her social network. We have tried to indicate this in a very simple commercial in a few seconds. We then referred to a website where you can really click extensively on sites that are tailored to your personal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mrs. Leijten!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr President, I do not need a second deadline, but I would like to say one more thing about this: would that have been made clear in those commercials? That didn't come out of the commercial and that's why all those people felt like: boys, it's all getting better. At that point, some people had a lot of worries, because they saw those conversations coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u36	With the knowledge of today, we would do it differently. Then we looked for a way to visualize it. That led to the addition of a cousin who stands for someone's social network, and so on. That's how it's built up. With the knowledge of now and after that statement, those commercials would be quite different. My personal taste doesn't matter much. I never try to influence the form, but I do want it to be consistent with the laws and regulations. We've been trying to reflect the essence in a few seconds. Next time it has to be a bit different and that will be quite a challenge. It presents us with new dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u37	The minister took the commercials off the website. They're not used anymore, and next time she'll deal with it differently. That is right, because the opinion is that the public has been misinformed on an important issue for a long time and that an incomplete picture has been drawn of the consequences of the changes in care. So what the minister did was all she could do. The Minister says that we have always wanted to bring information and we were not in competition with another party. Advertising can indeed do that, but advertising can also paint a positive picture of yourself. There are a lot of commercials on television that are not so much meant to piss off another person as to make yourself more beautiful. Wasn't that a nice side effect for the Ministry, that they were beautiful commercials in which the positive rather than the negative effects were highlighted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u38	Beautiful or ugly, I found them mostly a little fifty-fifty-fifty for my personal taste. It must not have any influence, and we have not said that either. This didn't matter either, because those commercials were meant to make people understand in seconds that something would change. I thought they clearly indicated that something was changing. I never thought we were advertising. I thought: we have commercials, but they are not on their own, because we also have a website, advertisements and all kinds of leaflets. All these resources have been very closely looked at in terms of whether they complied with laws and regulations and were correct. Besides, you have to leave things out, mostly on TV, because TV is the most expensive. There's only a few seconds, so you leave a lot of things out. That's how the commercials are built. So I don't see it as "wrong information." I see the commercials on TV as part of that very broad campaign, with everything around it. That's how I looked at it when we started making that message.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u39	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u40	Nevertheless, the Advertising Code Commission says: the commercials have always sketched an incomplete picture of the consequences of changing care for citizens. It's about that incomplete image. Whether or not you're in competition with someone, a government shouldn't paint an incomplete picture. Then let me rephrase the question. The Minister says this has implications for new campaigns. In what way exactly is this going to have consequences? How is the Minister going to assess whether a complete picture is being presented, including the negative effects of policy changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u41	Like I said, that's quite a challenge. I like to wear them, but it will be a challenge to paint a complete picture of a complicated change like this in a few seconds. You have to ask yourself whether you can even make TV commercials of a few seconds, unless they contain just the message you need to look at on the website, because there is a huge change in youth care, long-term care and the Health Insurance Act. We discussed this and promised the Chamber that we would inform the citizens. We have also tried to do this to the best of our consciences. I don't see myself in competition with anyone or anything. I've tried to do this sincerely. In a few seconds giving a complete picture of such large covers is indeed very difficult. Maybe we should stick to more lyrics. We have tested everything by law and regulation, because I think that you should do so and that you should do so tightly. I'm gonna take this into account. As I said in a debate earlier, we have a new tender for the donor spot. I'm gonna take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mrs Leijten, there is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u43	I know. I also welcome the Minister's reply that she is going to look at this, but it remains a little vague. I'll come to a conclusion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u44	I had the impression that the Minister had finished answering the questions. We shall now proceed to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. If you give the wrong picture, it can be accidental or conscious. In other words, it can be deception or a wrong image. If a campaign has been so extensively tested and so extensively looked at legislation and regulations, I still have to ask myself why it has been chosen to do so so positively and rosy. "Hopeful, promising" is the dictionary of "rosy." The Minister explained here how the trial went. I would also like to hear from her how she ensures that in future there is someone involved in this type of advertising campaign who can make a critical note, which makes it not an advertising campaign but an information campaign. I asked in the first term how the Minister will restore confidence after this information campaign or advertising campaign; it's just how you weigh it. She says about it: I'm aware of it, I took it away and I'm taking it with me for the next time. I also want to know how she now looks back on the fact that there was a lot of criticism, not only of opposition parties, but also a lot of social criticism. She spent all this time finding that those commercials had to stay in the air. In fact, that campaign was expanded. It did not intervene until after the Board of Appeal had confirmed the ruling of the Advertising Code Commission. Didn't she get the signal earlier that the advertising campaign was too unbalanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u46	I note that the other spokesmen do not need a second term. The Minister can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. You run a campaign with a lot of people, but in this campaign we had a lot of people. Before this campaign was broadcast, incredibly many people from not only VWS, but also all kinds of other organizations looked into it. It had to be true, according to them. Sometimes municipalities or health insurance companies found that a particular text was incorrect. If VWS is running a campaign, you put a team on it as usual, and that's it. However, this campaign has been viewed by a lot of people. The campaign has also changed, because sometimes things had to be different or that way they didn't add up. This shows that the campaign is very sincere, because all the other parties involved had only one interest, namely to get informed citizens to go to that website. How am I going to restore confidence? The spots are one part of the campaign. They are no longer visible, but the rest of the campaign, with all the nuances on the website, with all the pluses and minuses and with all the references, remains. The rest is just in motion. I have just mentioned a whole programme in which the Secretary of State, together with municipalities, has indicated how information and communication are going. Why did I appeal? We thought it was important to know whether this is information or advertising. We differed on that. You can see that. We have argued that it is advertising and that it is, in our opinion, information. We wanted to see that spoken and tested. That is why we have appealed. In addition, we have always seen it this way: everything is actually in line with the laws and regulations, but of course it is not applicable to all kinds of situations and that is why we have the website. We have seen that as a whole. The Advertising Code Commission has understood that differently. After reading the ruling, I immediately decided to take the commercials off, because I do not think the discussion whether or not this is advertising is relevant. I think it is important that people are properly informed. So I didn't want that discussion to go through, so I also thought that those commercials should be off. That's what happened right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-7.u48	This brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Minister and the officials supporting her.
