ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Of course I am not concerned with whether a broadcast, even a nice broadcast like that of Radar, starts twenty minutes later. Nor am I concerned with the fact that there was "live" in the picture, when it was clearly a recorded broadcast, or the communication error that was apparently there. Leave all these things to Antoinette Hertsenberg; we do not have to deal with them in the Chamber. What matters to me is the fact that television viewers of the public channel Netherlands 1 had to look for a very long time at "a little patience." This time it wasn't about an intruder at the Journal. A communication problem was the cause. We are talking about the national disaster transmitter that people should be able to rely on. Hence my next questions to the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. Do you think it is acceptable that the public and disaster transmitter has been out of the air twice this year, only with the announcement: please wait.? Isn't there someone who can do something technically superior than that one sentence? Was there any mention yesterday and earlier this year of the failure of NPO 1 as a disaster transmitter? Can you explain that? How's it going now? Who can intervene when this essential transmitter goes off the air? Can we immediately switch to the studio in The Hague, to the media complex in Amsterdam or perhaps somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. In my view, Mr Krol's comparison does not go far enough. Earlier this year there was something completely different going on. A person entered the NOS building. Yesterday there was a communication error about a program that apparently wouldn't be live for King's Day and wasn't quite ready yet. I think it's good to find out what's going on, and I assume that the NPO is also doing exactly what was going on, whether it's well communicated from the TROS and whether it's been properly received from the NPO. The fact that it has taken a while, as I have been told, has to do with the fact that, during "just a moment of patience, please." It was always told that they would be back on the tube very soon. But apparently it took a little longer and longer. In total, it took about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	It lasted from half past nine to ten for nine. It was the second time this year that the transmitter was out of the sky. I am not concerned, as I have already said, at all with these communication errors, but is it not dangerous if that transmitter can also be needed as a disaster transmitter? My follow-up question is: isn't there too much coming out of that one building in Hilversum? That's where the switching center sits, where they're waiting for a communication from the TROS, that's where the Journal comes from, Radio 1, NOVA, With the Eye on Tomorrow, the News Show and much more. So that one building is deadly dangerous. If a terrorist is gonna focus on that... I'm gonna hold on to my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	I do not have the impression that there was a dangerous situation last night or that there was something bigger going on than the simple fact that there was going to be a live broadcast, which later turned out to have been recorded earlier and not ready. It was a nasty mistake, especially for the people who were ready to watch that fantastic program. But it's not worse for me than that either. Mr Krol's underlying question is: how vulnerable is our national infrastructure? That's totally unrelated to a program that starts a little bit later. We have already agreed with all of us on this question earlier this year that an independent investigation will take place in response to the incident earlier this year in which a stranger entered the NOS studios.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you for the answers. Again, it's not about starting that broadcast 20 minutes later, nor about the communication error. But it's the disaster transmitter. This cabinet is also planning to take out the air alarm sirens. Can the Secretary of State guarantee us that when something really is going on, and yes, yesterday, there was not really anything going on, people can trust that the Netherlands 1, NPO 1, is the disaster transmitter that they can turn on and where they get the information that looks something different than one line at the bottom of the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	I will say that it is not up to Mr Krol to do that twenty minutes or a human error, because perhaps the viewer will get a completely different impression of this debate. It is good to underline that. Formally, there is one disaster transmitter in the Netherlands and that is the regional radio broadcasting. Nevertheless, it is important that NPO 1, NPO 2 and NPO 3 can be seen, that they are in the air if they have to be. There's a lot of work to be done for that. Earlier this year, when a stranger entered the NOS studio, it turned out that there was vulnerability. I do not know whether we can do that at all, but we must do the best we can. It is precisely for this reason that an investigation is now taking place to determine whether the necessary backup is adequate. Once again, there was no such situation last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	I haven't heard anything about that one pathetic little rule, but I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and for replying.
