ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week it appeared that ING and ABN AMRO have given their management exorbitant salary increases. ING-topman Ralph Hammers' salary of 1.3 million euros seems to have been too low for the supervisory board. In an interview with RTL Z, Ralph Hamers said that they had held back, and that he wasn't there for the money, but also for other things. He pretended it was about love work, old paper. And so his salary was increased by as much as 28% to 1.6 million euros. Then there is the magic of Mr. Salmon. Zalm has all given his colleagues on the board a ton, but he pretends they have to turn in. A short while from now, the collection buses will have to go around for the management of ABN AMRO. This is what the banks do while keeping their own staff on the line, while people are being laid off massively, while small and medium-sized enterprises are barely getting credit but are suffering from all kinds of junk products such as interest rate derivatives. These are the banks that we have supported with billions, directly and indirectly. My group, the SP, calls this shameless self-enrichment by the summit of ING and ABN AMRO, about the backs of the people and their own staff. The Minister calls this a bad signal. My question is: does he also disapprove of this? He says, "We can't help it, they're sticking to the law." However, we make the laws here. Last year I made proposals for a legal restriction on permanent salaries. The minister didn't give him home at the time. He wanted to keep an eye on it first. Is he gonna come up with any legal measures now? Is he going to ask the current directors of ABN AMRO and ING if they will return their salary increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. With ING and ABN AMRO, two different laws play a role, but in both cases the fixed salaries go up significantly. ING also returns the bonuses, although they come under the new legal bonus ceiling of 20%. At ABN AMRO, the 2011 bill plays a role, which came into force in 2012. This concerns a bonus ban on state-supported banks. That law was adopted unanimously. State-supported banks and financial institutions are allowed to increase their fixed salaries by up to 20% instead of the bonuses that existed up to that time, including for ABN AMRO, up to 50%. That's what happened at ABN AMRO. The Chamber knew that, too. This was reported to the Chamber in 2012 and in 2013, in response to questions from Mr Merkies. It was also mentioned in 2014, when we had the debate on the new bonus law, which included the bonus ceiling. What do I think? I find it hard to explain in the light of the current recovery operation within the banks and the economic recovery. I find it difficult to explain in the light of the austerity that has taken place in collective agreements. ABN AMRO's employees are on the zero line. That's what I think. However, we have imposed legal restrictions and we have already established them with the Chamber, together with all of them, in 2012. At the same time, remuneration policy was adapted and the working conditions of those concerned were adapted. I can't change those terms of employment with retroactive effect. So I do like it, but I cannot, with retroactive effect, tighten up the legal provisions. For ING, the last State aid has been repaid and the bank is therefore no longer covered by the State-aided Banks Act, but is subject to the new law with the 20% bonus ceiling. On this point, too, it is difficult to explain in the light of the economic circumstances and to explain badly in the light of the recovery that is still taking place in the banking sector, but it is allowed and it is a private sector. On the question of whether I am coming up with legal measures, I say that I have already come up with far-reaching legal measures. The Netherlands has the strictest bonus legislation available. However, he does not see fixed salaries. That's a fact. We've considered putting it in the law at one point. The Council of State has advised us against this on legal grounds. So I'm not gonna do that again. The Chamber was informed, knew this would happen, especially as regards ABN AMRO. I think the Chamber was sufficiently informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	We agreed to a bonus ban, but we expressly did not agree to the possibility of introducing a shortcut. We did not want to be able to increase fixed salaries by 20%. We have tabled an amendment on this, and indeed it did not. The aim of this amendment was precisely to remove that point. The Minister is also a shareholder of the bank. As a shareholder, he could say: just take that back. He can appeal to the board and say: do you actually think this is morally correct and are you willing to give it back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	In recent years, this debate has been conducted in full with ABN AMRO, as Mr Merkies knows. The shareholder approved this new remuneration policy, which included the increase of 16.7% for the Management Board in 2012. I am committed and bound to that; so did the Chamber. After that, ABN AMRO repeatedly talked about postponement, about not accepting. Two years have been given up on a voluntary basis. In 2014, this was stopped. That is also what I have informed the Chamber. I'm not reopening that discussion. It has been extended to include the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, which are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	The board that is now there was not yet there when ABN AMRO was nationalized. These people didn't get a bonus at all. They therefore also do not need to receive compensation for their bonuses in the form of fixed salaries. I think that's a bullshit argument. The Minister can simply say to them: you just charge a ton per driver, do you think it is right? Does the Secretary of State find that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'm going to go into the "bully argument." The directors concerned were indeed entitled to bonuses when they were appointed. It may be difficult for us to understand this now, but they received a bonus of up to 50% when they were appointed. Only later, at the end of 2012, was there talk of a bonus ban on state-supported banks. Those people had a bonus, which was in their employment contract, but it was set to zero. The legislator then said, on the basis of sound legal advice, that there may be a one-off conversion to a higher fixed salary. Mr Merkies says: you shouldn't, you should just put the bonuses to zero, end discussion. Legally, that is extremely vulnerable. You take property rights from people. You can think morally of all that, I think so too, but legally people have been granted rights. At some point, within a legal framework and with political approval, this has been converted into an increase in the fixed salary. I cannot intervene with retroactive effect either as a shareholder or as a legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	The Minister is very much hiding behind laws and legal matters, but he also has a moral opinion on this, doesn't he? I think he can do a lot more than he says. These people never got a bonus, but now they get a ton. He can just do something about it as a shareholder. Last year we talked about bonuses in the sector in general. I made proposals at the time to do something about these fixed salaries. The Minister simply does not want to do anything about it, but is now outraged. This also applies to his party, the PvdA. I'm sorry about that. Let us at least set standards for fixed salaries when it comes to bank directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	It is true that there were amendments when the bonus legislation was being examined to also limit fixed salaries or at least to obtain legal instruments for that purpose. Those amendments were not supported by a majority of the House. I have indicated that, on legal grounds, that is vulnerable, not to say impossible. You can find all kinds of things, but developments of fixed salaries in a private sector are up to that private sector. The reason why we have set a ceiling on variable remuneration is purely because of the perverse incentives and the risks that have crept into the financial sector by these exorbitant bonuses. That is what the law is going to do; we are cutting back on this social argument. However, we have not intervened on fixed salaries. Nor did a majority of the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	I had a few seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	Nine seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	There were 12 of them. It's about exorbitant increases in fixed salaries. My party and a number of other parties have made proposals on this. It's a shame the Minister didn't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	I repeat my answer. A majority of the House did not vote for this, partly on political grounds, partly for legal arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	The Minister says up to five times: it is bad to explain. It's really hard to explain. The Minister also says: I can't help it. He's standing here talking with flour in his mouth. He doesn't like it, it's inexplicable and yet he lets it happen. If someone as a shareholder and legislator can do something about it in the Netherlands, it is this minister. Now he's talking with flour in his mouth. He thinks it's normal for someone to make 2 million a year at a bank just supported by the taxpayer by over 10 billion. He stands there, he looks at it and he says: yes, I can't explain it either, but so be it, there was no majority in the Chamber. The minister shouldn't hide, but he just needs to take action. This cannot be done, this cannot be done, and this is indeed inexplicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	I do not understand what Mr Van Dijck is referring to when he talks about more than 2 million a year. I don't really understand what he's arguing. The core is that we in the Netherlands have chosen to limit the variable remuneration with the strictest environment, more stringent than anywhere else. It is true that the fixed remuneration in the private sector is not regulated. However, salaries have been increased within the limits of the law and within the agreements agreed by the Chamber, by NLFI as shareholder and by the Minister at the time in 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	You wonder what kind of world the members of the board of directors and the members of the supervisory board of banks live in in the Netherlands. People are made redundant, employees are put on the line, state aid is received and huge bonuses are paid one day after and salaries are increased. It's really incomprehensible and indigestible. The PvdA actually thinks that morally reprehensible behavior. I also hear the Minister giving a moral judgment on this. How did the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board respond to this moral judgment of the Minister? They're full of servitude banking. The whole Chamber is disgusted about this, people are disgusted about this and people cancel their accounts. I don't understand how you can defend such a decision for yourself if you want to be a servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Nijboer is now asking me to express the defence of the directors of ABN AMRO. That is vulnerable because I share this formally legally and administratively, but I do not share the fact that they are entitled to it on a moral level. I think it is ill-advised and I think it is a wrong signal to one's own organisation and to society. At the same time, agreements have just been made with the directors of ABN AMRO by the supervisory board responsible for this. It therefore fits within the legal framework. The Chamber also knew in 2012 that this could happen. The shareholder and the minister at the time agreed. That's where we stand. You can then find anything about that, but you have no legal options, and frankly no administrative options, to get back to it, unless you want to take it to court. However, I think we are losing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	I have the same question about ABN AMRO. The Minister is 100% shareholder of ABN AMRO. Indeed, we passed that law in 2012. Last Friday, the Minister indicated that he finds what is happening now, with the wage increase of a tonne, morally reprehensible. But what did the Minister do as a shareholder to prevent this from happening? In 2012 and 2013, this did not happen either, while the law was there at the time. At that time, no use was made of it, also because of the social feelings there were. What did the Minister do as a shareholder to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have, of course, discussed this with the Supervisory Board. It has indicated that it will not again call on the Management Board to refrain from doing so. The Supervisory Board has done so twice, and it has been said that it will not do so again. I can't argue that it was fully agreed at the time. It fits within the legal and legal possibilities that were explicitly created in 2012, also for ABN AMRO. Everyone therefore knew that it could also happen with ABN AMRO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	Has the Minister also looked at what other legal possibilities he has in order, perhaps on another side, to put a stop to this? What does he think of the statement by the Chairman of the Administrative Board, Mr Zalm, that this is almost a step backwards rather than a very high demand? What does the Minister think of that last ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	We have looked at the legal possibilities before. That is why I reported to the Chamber in October or November 2014 that this would happen. It was already clear to me that people would no longer refrain from raising their salaries. I reported that to the Chamber at the time. I also spoke to the Supervisory Board at the time. We also asked the question whether this was legally closed or whether there might still be a hook in there. There wasn't one. Questioned is what I think of the reasoning that this is actually a step backwards. That's a wonderful reasoning, isn't it? Should I continue to color this? It is a wonderful reasoning because the salaries were 6 tons, with a small indexing of the past years €607.000 to be precise. Based on the previous conversion of the bonus of up to 50% was then awarded €100,000. Two years have passed and now suddenly no more. It may be legally correct, but it is not to be explained to the outside world as a step back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	As far as the VVD is concerned, banks should also take more account of the way in which this type of salary increase lives in society, but also with bank employees themselves. I have a question about the banker's oath. Of course, ABN AMRO's summit also had to finish. It says, among other things, that I will make an effort to maintain and promote confidence in the banking system and I will make a careful balance between the interests of all parties involved in the company. How are we supposed to see this raise in relation to that banker's oath? What's the point of this banker's oath at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	Asking the question is answering it. There's a tension with this banker's oath. The oath is, of course, general, but speaks explicitly of keeping the interests together in acting as a banker. The point of the banker's oath is that we can appeal to the bankers every time. It is of course not a binding instrument, where you can lay down what is allowed and what is not. However, there is a moral charge in it, namely that the bank must ensure a balanced defence of the interests it serves with its environmental factors, its employees and society. So that's what you can talk to them about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	No one understands anything about this anymore. The country is in crisis and the bankers are greatly enriching. It is also bizarre that the parties who have voted against the SP Group's proposals to do something about this behavior by bankers, among other things, say anything about immorality. For example, the PvdA talks about immoral behavior. That is the result of our own policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	What is your question, Mr Bashir?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	My question to the Minister is whether a bank that is currently cheating in Dubai, which is unprecedentedly enriching itself and which, for example, sells interest rate derivatives to SMEs, is capable of being sold and standing on its own feet. Is the Minister prepared to refrain from doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	I am absolutely not going to accept Mr Bashir's qualifications. He's talking about fraud in Dubai. I don't think that qualification is right. I answered some of the questions in the Chamber. I will not repeat all the qualifications. I'm gonna leave them all on his own. The question about the IPO will be answered in the cabinet. The Chamber knows that the intention of the cabinet is to privatise ABN AMRO again and to put it on its own feet. We believe that all account holders of all banks in the Netherlands are entitled to equal protection. There is no reason to protect ABN or ABN account holders in any other way. Banks must be controlled by good policies, by good supervisors and by high standards. They'll apply to all banks. That is why we will say goodbye to ABN and SNS Bank at some point. The Chamber will receive our decision as soon as it is taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	Even the Dutch Bank writes in its annual report that the new culture to be promoted by banks also means for bankers that they should not always use the space that the law may offer. I would like to continue with a question that Mr Koolmees asked. What did the Minister do as a shareholder to ensure that this salary increase would not go through? He said he spoke to the board of directors. Did he actually call on the bank not to do this? Has the Minister of Finance said that he is not in agreement as a shareholder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u29	I told the Supervisory Board that I would not deny the directors the right to this increase, which was already achieved in 2012. I also said that, in the light of the current social circumstances, I find it unwise to allow this increase to take place now, after two years have passed. The Supervisory Board then persisted and said: two years have passed, we now have two years of discussion about it, that increase has been granted then, it has all been formally done properly, and we are going to let it go now. People know how I feel about it. At the same time, I cannot bring back a 2012 decision now, either legally or politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u30	In my view, what is happening now in the banking sector does not contribute to the social acceptance of banks and to a favourable image. It is not good for banks as part of society's financial dynamism. What's happening now doesn't add up. I assume the Minister agrees with me. The Dutch Bank, the regulator of banks that have a banking license, must also check whether there is a moral-ethical awareness. The Minister points out that he too does not consider this action to be so moral. Does this act contribute to moral-ethical awareness? How does the Minister feel about that? Can he do something about this through the Dutch Bank? After all, that's the supervisor. At DNB, doesn't the minister have a finger in his mouth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u31	There are no standards in this respect that the Netherlands Bank can impose on banks other than existing legislation. This legislation is aimed at state-supported banks. Those banks are subject to a bonus ban. Bankers who had a bonus were allowed to turn them into that one-off salary increase. That's what's going on at ABN AMRO. This is also a result of a 2012 decision. At ING, state aid is over. That is where the overall bonus ceiling of 20% falls. However, we have not arranged anything for permanent salaries. I maintain that intervention in fixed salaries is extremely difficult to defend in legal terms. Then you can still think of it morally. Mr Van Vliet talks about the Dutch Bank. DNB is the regulator for that law. That law states that there is a ceiling for bonuses of up to 20%. If one goes beyond that or if that law would be bypassed, the Dutch Bank may intervene directly. The Dutch Bank will then report this to me after a year, and through me to the Chamber. I also promised the Labour Party that with the entry into force of this law I would keep a finger on the pulse with regard to the increase in fixed salaries. The first results on this point are therefore unfavourable. That is what we are debating now. However, I have said that we are keeping our finger on the pulse, also at this point. The Dutch Bank will make this clear. Then it is up to the Chamber to say that there is a problem here, and that is why we need to reconsider and perhaps tighten up legislation. The same legal problems will then play again, but politically I would understand such a wish very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u32	Thank you for your answers and thank you for coming to the Chamber, Minister.
