ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. When Prime Minister Erdogan recently lost the elections in Turkey, I feared the violence would flare up there again. That's what happened. This has to do with the rise of the HDP, the party that is doing very well with Kurds, but not only with Kurds. As a result, Prime Minister Erdogan may feel seriously threatened. As a clear response to this, he has again firmly tackled the Kurdish minority living there in Eastern Turkey. This has resulted in a cycle of violence which I believe should be condemned. The SP condemns that cycle of violence from both sides. I think the government should do the same. The Dutch journalist Fréderike Geerdink lives in that region and reports on exactly what is happening there. She was arrested in the presence of Kurdish activists. According to a Turkish spokesman, she was arrested for her own safety. There are also other reports stating that she was in prohibited territory and that she was therefore detained. Geerdink is not the only journalist arrested or imprisoned in Turkey. Unfortunately, Turkey is the frontrunner in the imprisonment of journalists. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. I haven't seen any messages from Mrs. Geerdink in two days through public channels. So I can't tell what her situation is either. Can the Dutch government do that? Does the government have any news on that? What's the formal reason for her arrest? Is that her own safety? Is it about her presence in restricted areas? Is consular assistance provided, as usual? What can the Minister say about the prospects in this case? What is the status of Mrs Geerdink's previous arrest and the subsequent prosecution? Finally, what does all this mean for freedom of the press in Turkey? Is there freedom of the press in Turkey? Freedom of the press is an important requirement of the accession project to the European Union. Turkey is in the process of accession, but it is doing an extremely poor job in the area of freedom of the press. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Bommel for his questions on the situation of Mrs Fréderike Geerdink and the freedom of the press in the broad sense in Turkey. Maybe it's good in two sentences to say something about the latter. The Netherlands has often expressed concerns about the situation of journalists in Turkey. That remains, unfortunately, a constant point of attention in our contacts. Mrs. Geerdink has indeed been arrested. According to the Turkish authorities, she was arrested in an area they call a special security zone, and the reason for this is that she was in the wrong place at the wrong time. This is what the Turkish authorities say. Mrs. Geerdink is in custody. No charges have yet been filed. This is expected to happen tomorrow. There is certainly consular assistance. Our embassy in Turkey has telephone contact with Mrs Geerdink and my colleague Koenders spoke with the Turkish ambassador here in the Netherlands last night and expressed his concerns. I have just spoken to Mr Koenders and he has stressed once again that the matter has its full attention. You can imagine that our embassy is also following the case closely and is constantly in active contact with Mrs Geerdink and with the Turkish authorities. So that's where we are now. I would add, perhaps, that we are following the matter very closely and that the government is personally involved in the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u4	I'm not quite sure exactly what happened. Mrs Geerdink was in the wrong place at the wrong time, and Turkey has designated special zones. Does this mean that Mrs Geerdink, in the opinion of the Dutch Government, went someplace illegal, or not? Does the Dutch Government share the view of Turkey that this was a possible criminal act by Mrs Geerdink? That's an important question, I think. What can the government say about the treatment of Mrs Geerdink in detention? In many Turkish prisons, the treatment of prisoners is poor and consular assistance should also be used to ensure that Dutch nationals are properly treated abroad when they are in detention. What does the Dutch Government's opinion on the treatment of journalists in Turkey for travel advice for Turkey mean? What does the establishment of special areas for travel advice mean? I can imagine that journalists are warned in advance to stay out of certain areas and that there is special attention on the Foreign Affairs website, as is the case in some other countries, to parts of the country where it is best not to come as a journalist. Finally, according to the SP, the concerns expressed by the Dutch Government in a general sense about the freedom of the press in Turkey should also lead to concerns about Turkey's accession to the European Union. Important values such as freedom of the press, freedom of expression and human rights should be high on the agenda. This means that it cannot remain without consequences for Turkey's accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I should first answer Mr Van Bommel's first question: what exactly happened? I'll paraphrase him. We are now looking at what the Turkish authorities tell us about this. They say that they were in a special security zone where, according to the Turkish authorities, terrorist activities and large-scale military and police operations are taking place. By going there, even in the middle of the night, Mrs Geerdink put herself and others at risk, again according to the Turkish authorities. Since there is no formal charge yet, we must do so, I say to Mr Van Bommel. I now have no indication that, given Mrs Geerdink's situation, the circumstances would not be right. So there's contact from our embassy. Our ambassador in Turkey also spoke with the Prime Minister of Turkey yesterday and expressed his concerns about both the situation in which Mrs Geerdink is in detention and the conduct of the case. Then I come to the bigger issue, which I have often discussed with the Chamber: what does the lack of freedom of the press mean for the accession process? Without going into all the details of this process and where we stand: it is clear that such a process can help to promote universal values, which we also want to see in the way Turkey acts. At the same time, there is a problem if these values are not guaranteed. That is what the talks with the Turkish authorities are about all the time, of course. Once again, they know that we are concerned and we have repeatedly expressed these concerns. You have diplomatic consultations and diplomatic consultations. It is a frank discussion that we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u6	The Minister has not yet answered my question about the travel advice, which is a very important point for journalists who may want to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u7	I would like to say to Mr Van Bommel that I will look into this. Based on reports from the country, open sources and information from our embassy, we constantly check whether this travel advice is adequate. I'd like to admit that I'm going to do that with some sharpness today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr Ten Broeke has a supplementary question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u9	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have a supplementary question for the Minister. In my opinion, setting up these special security zones is part of a Turkish attempt to fight the PKK in full at the moment. Is it not time for the Dutch Government, perhaps together with the European Union and the High Representative, to ask the Turkish authorities to what extent these special security zones are at the same time areas to which journalists no longer have access? I do not think this is known to those journalists, and as far as they are aware, it is not something we can agree to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u10	I would like to say to Mr Ten Broeke that I will look into this and that I will inform the like-minded Member States about their contacts with the Turkish authorities on this matter. For the moment, we are just as busy making sure that Mrs Geerdink's case is properly dealt with.
