ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u1	Madam President. This week is commemorating the genocide that hit Armenians, Arameans and Coptic Greeks a hundred years ago. The first genocide of the 20th century, as the Pope has just said very strikingly. On Friday 24 April is the official commemoration. In life and well-being I hope to be there in Jerevan in Armenia myself. We know that, unfortunately, the Dutch Government is only sending the Dutch ambassador to Georgia. A large community of Armenians and Arameans lives in the Netherlands. That is why there are Friday anniversaries in the Netherlands. We have had the debate on the delegation of the cabinet to Armenia. If the cabinet insists on sending the ambassador alone in Georgia to the memorial in Jerevan and does not want to be represented there at government level, at least one cabinet representative could be present on Friday at the memorial in Assen, which takes place in the afternoon, and/or at the memorial in Almelo, which takes place in the evening. I would have liked to put this question to the Prime Minister, but he has delegated the answer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, in his absence, the Minister for Defence will respond to my question. However, she is the representative of the Dutch cabinet. My question to the Dutch cabinet is whether it is willing to be present on Friday at the commemoration in Assen or in Almelo, or perhaps at both commemorations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Slob for his questions. Mr Slob said that only the Dutch ambassador would be present in Georgia, but Armenia was also in his area. The Dutch ambassador will indeed be present at the commemoration in the capital, where Mr Slob will also be present. I think that is a very appropriate level, but I also understand Mr Slob's wish to raise this point again. With the presence of the ambassador, the cabinet wishes to express our deep sympathy with the families of the victims of the events in 1915. Last night, the Director of Europe of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Director of Society and Integration of the Ministry of Social Affairs attended the memorial concert that took place in The Hague. In this light, it has been said earlier that we will not be present in Assen and Almelo, also because we are represented in several other places, not in person, but at ambassador level or at a high level of administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u3	I'm going to let these answers get through to me. I hear the Minister say that it is not possible to be present at commemorations on Friday in connection with agendas. We see these days that the cabinet is deleting all kinds of meetings and that some ministers are not even present at the Council of Ministers in order to be able to solve a problem internally. Then, if one really wants to, there must be something possible. I find it disappointing. I had sincerely hoped that the cabinet would not only be present at the commemorations in the spirit of a delegation. Of course, it is not meaningless to send an ambassador or a senior official from the ministry to a memorial, but it is only when a representative is present at a memorial at cabinet level that a delegation is given genuinely high consideration. Would it help if there is a representative of the cabinet who does not speak? Perhaps the problem is that the cabinet does not want to speak at such commemorations. I think that a bodily presence without speaking already has a huge impact and that this helps the relatives of those who have fallen at the time to deal with the great suffering. So I repeat my question: is the cabinet prepared to create space in the agendas? It concerns the person present during one hour at a memorial in the Netherlands, in Assen or Almelo. One does not need to go to Jerevan, which is indeed a little further away, as I noticed when I booked my flight ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u4	I have just indicated that the cabinet believes that it is present at the commemoration in the capital of Armenia through the presence of the Dutch ambassador at an appropriate level. I also talked about the memorial concert that has taken place. I understand Mr Slob's appeal, but the cabinet has previously decided that it will carry out the memorial meetings at an appropriate level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u5	Sometimes you sincerely hope that time will give us some room for change. That is what we are seeing happening in Germany at the moment. In Germany, it is likely that a resolution will be adopted this week in which the word 'genocide' will almost certainly be expressed, with the agreement of the Chancellor. We know how sensitive that is in Germany, even with all the developments in that country itself. It'd be nice if the cabinet would think for a while. There's still time. When the king of Saudi Arabia died, it was settled at the highest level within one, two days. Even the King and the Foreign Minister were present. This meeting is in the Netherlands, with distances that are not that big. I would therefore urge the Cabinet to reflect on this matter and to take a decision by Friday. It would also be nice if our own President or the Vice-President were present. I understand invitations went to them, too. They are buried in the sand of oblivion, once sang Charles Aznavour, who himself is Armenian of origin. I call on the Cabinet to do everything in its power to prevent this happening with the great massacre that took place at the time and which has still not been processed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think it is important to stress once again that I share very much with Mr Slob and a large majority in this Chamber that it is very important for the Turks and the Armenians to come together to an agreement on their history. That too has recently been expressed in a very nice motion from the Chamber. I have just said that the cabinet has previously decided on the presence of the people I have just mentioned. Despite Mr Slob's repeated appeal, I say that this was the decision and that I see little or no room to change it. It goes without saying that I will once again share Mr Slob's words with my foreign minister, but I assume that the cabinet has decided and will act in accordance with that decision. I have, of course, also followed the media reports that have been published about Germany with great interest. I do not yet know the exact wording of the possible new German line. The President of the United States will make a speech on Thursday. As a result, of course, we will again be in contact with the Chamber. I'm guessing that's a good reason. Moreover, we have not received any confirmation from Germany that such words will actually be spoken. I think I've been sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u7	I support Mr Slob's call to be represented at ministerial level at the commemoration, but I have now also heard the Minister's statements, which unfortunately says: we see no reason to change that. I do have a question about Germany. I'd like to continue with that. Wouldn't it be a good thing if there were broad clarity in terminology at European level too? It would remove a great deal of pain and hassle if, on the basis of the historical facts, we were simply to speak clearly about genocide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u8	I have just referred to a motion which the Chamber has adopted by a large majority. It talks about the importance of reaching a common understanding of history when it comes to the Turks and the Armenians. As a former MEP, I know that there has been a lot of talk in the European institutions and in the European Parliament, and that everyone, almost everyone, believes that it is important that the Turks and the Armenians come to this comparison together and that not others will decide this for them or come to a legal conclusion. That's why this cabinet is still talking about "the issue of." It's all known to the members. Sometimes it is very tempting to respond to the calls made by Mr Slob, for example, and now Mr Van der Staaij. However, I think it is wise to encourage everyone, including Turkey, to come to a common understanding and to allow recognition to emerge from within. I think this is the most important lesson. Mr Van der Staaij and I have also spoken about this in other bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u9	I think it is also an important lesson that President Erdogan has already responded by saying: stop whining about this genocide. Those are his last words on this subject. But my question is about something else. The PVV also warmly supports Mr Slob's call, but we are still not clear. The Minister speaks of a "appropriate level" when it comes to the comparison between a delegation at ambassador level and a delegation at the highest level, with the King and the Prime Minister, to a state in which almost daily the most gruesome corporal punishments are carried out in public. I am talking about Saudi Arabia. What exactly is the difference in status between Saudi Arabia, which is ruled by Sharia, and Armenia, the oldest Christian nation in the world? We're not sending a delegation to the latter. What has been the balance between one and the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u10	Let me remind you once again that the events in 1915, and of course those in 1916, caused great suffering and that this should never be forgotten; I use Mr Slob's words. That's what the question was about. I think it's wise to stick to that question. Comparing the events of 1915 with the death of a head of state in 2015, I honestly find apples and pears comparable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u11	Do you have a follow-up question, Mr. Beertema?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u12	I'm sorry, I didn't get that last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u13	Apples and pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-2.u14	Oh, apples and pears. Okay. A lot of people don't think so, but I hear the Minister is persevering and I am very sorry about that.
