ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. On this sixteenth Day of Account we look back at 2014, the first year for which this cabinet has drawn up the budget. 2014 was a year that was still difficult for many Dutch. Too many people lost their jobs, too many entrepreneurs got into trouble and there are still too many houses under water. However, in 2014 there were also bright spots and they were a lot brighter than expected. The economic recovery that started in 2013 continued. Now that we have the figures, we can say without reservation that 2014 was a good year for public finances. The Dutch economy grew by 0.8% and the world economy also showed growth: the United States found the way up and the euro area recovered. The Dutch growth was largely driven by exports. That is not news, because our output is always relatively strong. That was even the case during the crisis years. In addition, last year business investment also increased and entrepreneurs regained confidence in it. That was a clear change compared to the years before. The number of house sales rose again, by almost 40%, after years of very low sales volumes. Household consumption, traditionally the final stage of recovery, was still modest, but on average there was an increase in purchasing power. 2014 was also the year of a lower budget deficit and according to the CPB a year in which the path to longer-term sustainable public finances has re-established. This was a result of the favourable conditions I mentioned, but it was also due to the intervention of the government with necessary structural reforms in the labour market, the housing market, the pension system and care. Due to favourable circumstances and policies, the results exceeded the initially gloomy expectations for 2014. In 2013, the CPB forecasted a budget deficit of 3.5% for 2014. It ended up being 2.3%. By comparison, the Netherlands spent 92 million euros a day in 2009; in 2014 this daily deficit was more than halved, up to 41 million. The Netherlands left the proverbial penal bench of the European Stability and Growth Pact in 2014 for the first time since 2009. So we can say out loud that things are getting better, but for cheering it is too early. As mentioned above, in 2014 Dutch people still felt the consequences of the severe crisis. For the government, there's no reason to sit back. The Netherlands also had a high public debt in 2014, but our budget also benefited from historically low interest rates. In 2014, we paid EUR 400 million less interest than in 2008, while the debt itself increased by almost 200 billion in the same period due to the rising government deficit and economic conditions. That low interest rate is now convenient, but interest rates also tend to rise again at some point and then the high public debt is still a burden on our country. So we still need a prudent budgetary policy. Nor would the Chamber have expected any other comment from me. We have also been much more concerned with the risks to public authorities, particularly public finances, since the crisis. This is visible at all levels. Since the end of 2013, provinces and municipalities have given their surpluses to the Treasury in custody for an amount of 6.5 billion. Since 2014, the government has been a guarantor only if this is necessary. At the "highlight" in 2012, these guarantees of government amounted to EUR 258 billion. That had already been reduced to 197 billion in 2014. We also reduced risks in Europe, both in countries and in banks. Following a strong European stress test last year, the Banking Union was launched. 120 banks, accounting for 82% of the total European banking sector, are now under strict European supervision. And future losses are borne by the banks themselves, their owners and investors. On Accountability Day we also look at the management of the Empire. The legality of the Rich's commitments, revenue and expenditure was again high by 99% in 2014. It was also a good year in that respect. The road to sustainable economic growth is not a sprint. It's more like a hink-step-jump. We saw the start of the sale last year, but we have not yet arrived at that jump to higher growth. 2014 was the middle, the step. We're speeding up, but we're not there yet. Saskia Stuiveling is here. On 1 June, the Court of Auditors shall give its farewell as President of the General Court. Mrs Stuiveling, you have led the Court of Auditors since 1999. I think, on behalf of all my predecessors, I am speaking at least to the Finance Ministers throughout that period, when I say that your Court of Auditors has become increasingly awesome at that time. I'm happy to look back on our cooperation. You are exactly and pleasant, as responsible as you are innovative. So you think the government should make a leap forward with open data. Just know I'm taking over that torch. I would like to thank you very much for the cooperation we had. Madam President, I would now like to offer you the last annual financial report of the Empire which has the approval of President Stuiveling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to the President of the General Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u3	Madam President, members of the House of Representatives, Minister Dijsselbloem. Madam President, thank you very much for allowing us to offer the results of our accountability research in your Chamber again this year. We have examined the 2014 National Account and its 23 annual accounts that you have just been offered by the Minister. We have also examined the National Declaration, the responsibility for the use of European funds in the Netherlands Member State in shared management. On the basis of our research, we form, and in part we make, an assessment of legality and management. Wherever possible, we also pay attention to the effectiveness of the policies pursued. Moreover, this year, just like last year, we are discussing decentralisation and fraud policy at your request. First of all, the national account itself. The 2014 government account with over 231 billion in revenue and over 242 billion in expenditure and the 2014 balance sheet is approved by the General Court. Fortunately, the percentage of errors and uncertainties combined is again well within the tolerance limit and this year's legality is slightly higher than you said, Minister, which is 99.5%. I was exactly what I was. You've seen that correctly. That's a big good. That is something we in the Netherlands can be happy with. On this point, the Court's budget law is working well. We can also agree that the number of final legislative changes involving policies that you should have approved in advance has decreased. However, we have seen budgetary reserves increase in 2014: from 1 billion in 2013 to 1.8 billion in 2014. In particular, there has been an increase in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Something to keep an eye on! There is something else in the budget law: out of EUR 242 billion in expenditure, only EUR 91 billion is spent by the government itself. The difference is due to public debt redemptions, double counting corrections, or cross netting between ministries of government contributions to funds and payments to other governments. For the record: outside the state account is the world of premiums, social security funds and care. Together, this is EUR 123 billion, which is part of the calculation of the EMU balance, but is not part of the Court's budget right. In the case of hospital accounts in particular, the determination of legality is under great pressure. In recent days, the chairman of the Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants has devoted excellent words to this, which we support more than fully. The Chamber can also read this in our report at Health, Welfare and Sport. I'm going back to the 91 billion in government spending. The management and the policy results are, of course, more than just that part of the government expenditure, because the management is the beating heart the Chamber is counting on. The motto that we want to give to the Chamber and the Cabinet this year is 'time for implementation'. We mean that in a double sense. Take the time for implementation as politicians, because the key task at the moment is not only for the performers, but also for politics in our view. But 'time for execution' we also consider in the sense of: give performers the time to do their job well. Good execution takes time. In many places we find frictions between political ambitions and the time available, people and means to carry out those ambitions properly. Let me give you a few examples: the Tax Administration works with about 1,200 ICT applications, some of which are crucial but very outdated. Short and longer-term renewal is a major challenge for the Tax Administration. A tip from the veil on how the Secretary of State intends to deal with this, was already in the news yesterday. The tax authorities will be faced with a major challenge with the proposed revision of the tax system. In our view, this revision can and should also be used to design a more feasible system, but it also requires sufficient time for the Tax Administration to implement it in an orderly manner. At the Ministry of Defence we note that it is not possible to retain sufficient operational equipment in addition to the deployment for missions in order to be able to train and practice with it. For example, there are vehicles and helicopters standing still due to shortages of spare parts and maintenance capacity. Staff have been trained for current missions, but no longer in the full scope of the task package for the highest level of violence. In order to get business in order, the Minister of Defence will have to set strict priorities. Wanting to realize everything at the same time will not work, even if, as I understand from the reports this morning, there is now extra money to alleviate the worst need for the Defense Department. I should have changed some of the text in response to yesterday's and today's messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u4	We rely only on official documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u5	I said I was just based on the press reports. The IRS and Defense Department are only two very eye-catching examples. Yesterday we published our AIVD research. That is a third example. Although the National Police are today outside the chalk lines of Accountability Day, we do not think it is complete at all if we do not mention them here as a fourth example. We always express our opinion on the management of the Empire with the term "incompleteity," say "a yellow card." This year we note that the number of business failures has increased from 40 to 50. Some of these are classic problems, such as errors in purchasing and contracting. Another part concerns us more. It concerns the increasing number of ICT-related deficiencies. That number has risen from nine to nine. This means that despite the additional efforts made to improve ICT project management, control has not improved. Striking is the high dependence on external expertise and external staff. Beyond the concept of "incompleteness," we note that apparently not everyone is yet aware of the vulnerability and difficulty of a digital government. Increasingly, governments work together with each other and other organisations in digital chains, but their functioning is one-on-one dependent on the divisibility, reliability and timeliness of information to be provided by one link in the chain. That's a basic requirement for digital collaboration. It is precisely to meet that basic requirement of divisibility, reliability and timeliness of information that the introduction of drawing rights is not a personal budget. That introduction has not been careful. In contrast to the prevailing image, we are talking about two departments. In addition to Health, Welfare and Sport as the client and chain director, this is also and equally Social Affairs and Employment as the owner of the Social Insurance Bank. Of course, nobody wanted this to happen, and the first thing is for the clients to be given the care they are entitled to and their caregivers to be paid on time. All parties involved in the chain, the departments of VWS and of SZW, the Social Insurance Bank, partly the Tax Office, health care offices and municipalities, have a common and shared interest in solving the remaining implementation problems. It is important that the Social Insurance Bank should not be expected to solve the problems of suppliers of data. They're supposed to be dealt with there. Since this is now taking place in 2015, we will re-examine this issue in the 2015 accountability. In connection with this, we will very soon start an investigation at the Social Insurance Bank. The divisibility of information also does not appear to be self-evident in the decentralisations in the social domain. Municipalities need time to adapt their administrative organisation to their new tasks and working methods. Much information is therefore not available. There is also no clarity as to whether the municipalities will succeed in developing a common language that will enable them to compare municipalities so that they can understand what works and what does not. Being so, it will also not be possible to build a rural image, let alone a rural image based on open data. I understand there's a new banner carrier sitting next to me in that area. Fine. Those open dates are needed so that we can all look at them. We have more open data on development cooperation available in the Netherlands than on the social domain in the municipalities. The exchange of knowledge in order to learn from each other also proves to be a bottleneck in the fight against fraud. Similarly, there is no systematic knowledge building and no shared expertise in the design of fraud-proof regulation. Better listening to the workplace and giving more scope to performers is needed both in order to be able to act effectively against new forms of fraud and to clear up practical knowledge in the design of fraud-proof regulation. Madam President, I come to the final issue: policy reviews. Your staff of Bureau of Research and Governmental Expenditure, BOR, has given a nice advance and I borrow from them the concepts of "sustainable" and "sustainable." You want to know whether policy makes sense and whether it is being implemented economically. In order to determine the degree of sense and economy, you need to do research. It's called "policy review." You will understand that we are a warm supporter of policy reviews: the more insight, the better. They have to be carried out with top quality if you want to get on with it. We have examined five of those policy reviews carried out by departments. To be honest, we have not been so impressed by the quality. A missed opportunity to do what could be done, by seeking to ensure quality cooperation with science. The cabinet stands by that recommendation of ours. We ourselves have carried out policy research on six subjects, and it often turns out that there is little information about the impact of the policy. For example, we have investigated three guarantee schemes of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to help companies finance. The State guaranteed a total of 2.6 billion until the end of last year in these three schemes, but it is unclear whether banks have actually been able to lend money under these guarantee schemes more easily. Furthermore, we looked at the professionalisation of teachers, the subsidy of electric cars, the better use of infrastructure, the regulatory burden in disability care and the quality of judicial facilities. Madam President, our motto this year is: time for implementation. I take the floor and now I am doing what I have come here to do, namely to offer you our 2014 test of accountability. You are in the unique position that you are the only one who gets a printed copy, because otherwise the research has been on our network since 13.00 hours and can be found via www.rekenkamer.nl/accounting research. Finally, there is a time of coming and there is a time of going. Another big week and I am really at the exit of the General Court. I have done my job with great pleasure and not only worked excellently with this minister and the predecessors, but also had excellent cooperation with the House of Representatives. Through you, I would like to thank the Chamber very much, especially on behalf of the Institute. Keep up the good work! It will not be up to my colleagues Kees Vendrik, Arno Visser and all the staff of the Court of Auditors led by our Secretary Ellen van Schoten. That may be another question for you, but that's for me to know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u6	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court for the documents presented with responsibility for the 2014 state budget in paper and digital form. It is a special year in the young tradition of Accountability Day. For the sixteenth time, on the third Wednesday in May, the Lower House receives the accountability documents of all ministers for the previous year, plus the reports of the General Court relating to this. All these 16 times, the current President of the General Court, Mrs Saskia Stuiveling, has reported here in plenary on the accountability of the General Court. It has always held out a mirror to the Chamber when it comes to the legality, efficiency and effectiveness of the national policies implemented. As she herself has just said, Mrs Stuiveling formally goodbyes later this month as President of the General Court. There will probably be many fine words at that time, but on behalf of the Chamber I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, Mrs Stuiveling, for the way in which you have represented the institute in the Chamber over the years, in your own powerful no-nonsense way. Ladies and gentlemen, the main debate on the accountability documents presented today, the so-called accountability debate, is on the agenda for next Tuesday, 26 May 2015. The individual annual reports will be discussed in the committees in the following weeks. Final decision-making on the annual reports and final laws as well as the discharge for the financial management conducted by ministers in 2014 is foreseen for the last week of the next summer recess. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the context of the accountability process, the annual report 2014 scheme Grote Projecten has also been presented to the Chamber by the Committee for National Expenditure. Every year, the Committee for Government Expenditure looks back on the operation and application by the Chamber of the Large Projects instrument scheme. I trust that the reports of the General Court will, as usual, assist the members of the Chamber in assessing the policy pursued in 2014. I wish the Chamber every success in the important work that awaits it in dealing with the documents that have been presented today.
