ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the statements made by Minister Timmermans, the minister's predecessor. These were statements about Turkey's accession to the European Union. It is remarkable: eleven months after these statements we have a debate here. That is also something for the internal procedure, I would almost say. Much has changed since then. No one is talking about Turkey's accession to the European Union anymore. What we are talking about is how we deal with Turkey, a country that is important in the region and which we are dealing with in many ways. Minister Timmermans was clear at the time. He wanted to give the negotiations an impetus by opening additional chapters, even after the brutal repression of the demonstrations in the Flemish Park and even with a serious deterioration of human rights. Meanwhile, we are a year further and Turkey slides under President Erdogan to an Islamic dictatorship. Cartoonists were murdered in Paris. In Turkey they are arrested. The Turkish newspaper Cumhuriyet dared to publish Charliecartoons. Now there's a threat of criminal prosecution. Turkey is therefore an open-air prison for journalists. There is no freedom for them; for Hamas there is freedom. Israel has foiled attacks that may have been planned and coordinated from Turkish territory and has called on NATO to put pressure on Turkey to stop facilitating this terror. We have put many questions to the minister's predecessor. The answer was: we don't know, we don't have proof, we can't find out, so we don't do anything. Why? That is my question to the Minister. Then there are the ongoing reports of support to Al-Qaida and ISIS. Thousands of jihadists have crossed the border to Syria and Iraq. Weapons and ammunition flowing towards the battlefield through Turkish territory. What does the Cabinet do? That puts the head in the sand. This attitude of the cabinet is not the right one as far as we are concerned. In my opinion, Minister Hennis has, quite frankly, what it was on at the time, when he visited the Patriots. She spoke about democracy and the rule of law. That's what she was attacked on. Then we got the wild talk from Turkey to the Netherlands about the so-called aggression and so-called racism against minorities, the inappropriate interference with our integration policy and the allergic reaction to Minister Asscher's attempts to encourage Turkish organisations in the Netherlands to increase transparency. Minister Koenders had to smooth the folds. He travelled to Turkey and was welcomed with open arms. However, two Dutch journalists have been arrested in two days. The question is therefore whether the Minister sees it as a successful visit. The minister acted correctly when he was there: on day one, after the arrest of Frederike Geerdink, he said that it was unacceptable. It sounded tough, but yes, a day later there was another arrest, namely that of Mehmet Ülger. Didn't the minister feel put in his shirt while he was there? Does he see these arrests as a coincidence or a harassment of the Netherlands, as a tap after Minister Asscher's scoop? In a short time, four Dutch journalists got into trouble. When are we going to perform assertively? Money is still going from the EU to Turkey. How long will we continue sending hundreds of millions to Turkey if that money is used to facilitate the judiciary to put more journalists in prison? In recent days, documents have been revealed on arms supplies from Turkey to Al-Qaeda in Syria. The media in Turkey are not allowed to publish about it. The parliamentarians there have done so. Twitter and Facebook were then shut down. Those documents are now online; they are rather spectacular. These are documents that Mr Omtzigt handed over to the Minister of Justice three months ago, in front of the NCTV (National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security). What has the Cabinet done with that information since then? Meanwhile, the German newspaper Die Welt has already published about it. Is the Minister prepared, now that the documents are public, to give a response to the Chamber within a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have taken up the statements made by the former Foreign Minister, Mr Timmermans. These statements were only optimistic about Turkey's possible and desirable future accession to the European Union. The opening of chapters 23 and 24 on the rule of law was something to be welcomed as far as he was concerned. A new round of talks on the reunification of Cyprus was also announced. None of that has happened at all. Freedom of the press and freedom of expression have been further restricted. Article 301 of the Criminal Law in Turkey on freedom of expression should be amended. We do not believe that this has happened. The question to the Foreign Minister is: is that still in the package in the negotiations with Turkey? Secondly, there is an anti-terrorist legislation in Turkey which is read in such a way that there is an extremely broad definition of terrorism. This will ensure that political opponents in Turkey are thrown into prison on a large scale. There have been literally tens of thousands of terrorist-related convictions since 11 September 2001. The question to the Dutch Government is: does it fit in with Chapter 23 and Chapter 24 on the rule of law and democracy when it comes to politically motivated convictions? There is illegal action by Turkey in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus. Seismographic research is being carried out there that is not in accordance with the agreements made internationally. This was the case until 30 December 2014. It has recently been announced that a review will be carried out in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus in the period from 6 January to 6 April 2015. Does the Foreign Minister agree with me that this is actually illegal action by Turkey and that this is not in line with Turkey's announced better attitude towards Cyprus? Does he agree with me that this should therefore be rejected and condemned? Finally, I come to the relationship between Turkey and Armenia. It is true that Turkey initially seemed to be opening up, but that this opening is no longer being used. The recognition of the Armenian genocide is still not negotiable in Turkey, whereas the European Union, including a motion adopted by the House of Representatives in 2004, should point this out. All talks on enlargement with Turkey should address the Armenian genocide. The question is whether this will be done in accordance with the motion. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity, 100 years after the Armenian genocide, to ask the Dutch Government to attend the commemorations which are being held in the Netherlands and possibly also in the region itself in response to this genocide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested a year ago. The fact that it is still up to date has more to do with the structural problems in the relationship between the EU and Turkey than with Mr Omtzigt's vision. That's a sad conclusion. I therefore ask the Minister how he looks at the previous Minister's statements. It was optimistic about the opening of chapters 23 and 24, which actually discuss the heart of cooperation, namely the democratic rule of law. What was that optimism based on? Is that still true? When we look back, in recent history, at what happened up to last week, there is much cause for gloom. Journalists have been arrested. No country keeps as many journalists behind bars as Turkey. We have heard President Erdogan's statements about what would have led to the attack in Paris. Islamophobia and racism in Europe would have been the causes. These are remarkable statements, which only widen the gap between Turkey and Europe. I would like to ask specifically about the elaboration of two motions previously adopted. Mr Van Bommel referred to this as well. There is a very old motion from 2004 on the recognition of the Armenian genocide and the importance of discussing it in the dialogue with Turkey. In response to the request for this debate, the cabinet says that it is very important to discuss the relationship with Armenia. That is not the point of this motion. It is really a question of recognising the genocide, so that a country with its past can come to terms with it, and from there it can also find the strength to enter into relations with Europe. That is a very complicated and difficult point, but it needs to be discussed. My question is: is that indeed being discussed? Did the Minister discuss this during his recent visit? The second motion is from colleagues Omtzigt, Verheijen, Van Bommel and from me. It states that pre-accession aid should be considered as a means of exerting pressure, in particular on the rule of law, in the area of human rights and freedom of the press, because it is a matter of very fundamental values. Is that gonna be used? What is Europe's support for its use? I agree with Mr Van Bommel's specific question about attending the commemoration of the Armenian genocide, which took place 100 years ago. If we take the motion seriously, if we take the suffering of that people seriously and if we take it seriously in relation to Turkey too, then the presence of the Dutch Government will be appropriate. Finally, I note that there is insufficient support for a stable relationship between the EU and Turkey in the form of EU membership. A continuation of the negotiations is frustrating on both sides. It is time to think about and work on a new relationship that can be inspiring and resilient. That is less than EU membership, but much more than nothing. That would have helped us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. In 2001, Pim Fortuyn pointed to the danger that Turkey would slip into a fundamentalist state. Here, too, he had a visionary vision. Last week two Dutch journalists were arrested in Turkey. These scandalous arrests took place while our own Foreign Minister was visiting the country. It was a deliberate provocation by Turkey, which has now completely abolished the freedom of the press. Why didn't Minister Koenders cancel his visit immediately? Why doesn't the cabinet have any consequence of this? How long will we allow ourselves to be humiliated by Turkey? We call on the cabinet to call our ambassador back from Ankara if Dutch journalists are arrested again. In addition, put an end to the EU's accession negotiations once and for all. President Erdogan believes that not Islam but the West is guilty of the attacks in Paris. The Turkish court has already banned the cover of Charlie Hebdo depicting the prophet Muhammad. This proves once again that Turkey has nothing to do with the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. At the end of last year, we discussed in detail in this House the situation in Turkey and the situation surrounding EU candidate membership. I think that at that time we all found that this situation is very worrying. We did so on the basis of the progress report and found that it was more of a report than progress. On all fronts, in the area of the rule of law, freedom of the press, corruption, freedom of expression, the position of minorities, Turkey is currently in decline. That is why the EU accession process is virtually still. We have made our concerns known widely from left to right in this Chamber. I would like to address one of these points specifically today, and that is freedom of the press. Last night it was often said that the free word is like oxygen for democracy. It is precisely that free speech that is under serious pressure in Turkey. We are afraid that democracy will follow as well. That's not in our best interest. We should not want that as an important strategic partner of Turkey. The Turkish Prime Minister Davutoğlu took part in the procession in Paris on Sunday. That was only three days before a court in Diyarbakır banned links on the internet to these cartoons. It was only five days after two Dutch journalists were arrested and questioned in Turkey. It was only a month after a large number of journalists were arrested in Turkey, after which President Erdogan indicated that Europe should mind its own business. With about 60 journalists in prison, Turkey is one of the largest prisoners, one of the largest prisoners of journalists in the world. Neither Turkey nor Europe can be proud of place 154 for Turkey at the World Press Freedom Index. This place is a place above Gambia, but one more place under Iraq. That's not something to be proud of. It is important to continue to raise this issue from the Netherlands, to continue to express our concerns and to insist on a concrete improvement programme. Is the Minister prepared to do so? What is he prepared to do at EU level? I am thinking, together with a number of colleagues, of tabling a motion on this point in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	I hear the VVD here sketching a very black scenario about Turkey. We can only agree with that. But then I'm so surprised that suddenly an improvement program is being looked forward to. An improvement programme for a repeater like Turkey? Apparently the VVD still has a lot of hope that it will all work out through an improvement program here and there. The country is fundamentally anti-European, as Mr Verheij himself points out. Does he indeed have hope? Does he see light at the end of the tunnel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	Do I see a lot of light? Now, the developments in recent years do not give me a positive opinion on this. They give no reason to be very optimistic. However, I am not saying that we should take our hands off it, that we should not do anything more and should not condemn anymore. I don't do that for two reasons. There are two reasons why Turkey is of strategic importance to us. The first is economic: the Netherlands and the EU do a lot of business with the country and earn a lot of sandwiches there. The second reason is geopolitics: the country is in a strategic position with very dangerous neighbouring countries, including us. I want this country to stay stable. I think that the country is an important buffer, including as a NATO member, between us and the very dangerous region with Syria and Iraq. Those are the two reasons why I am not giving up on the country, which I continue to cherish hope, and that I continue to insist on improvements in that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u10	I hear here more the merchant than the Reverend or the Liberal Reverend. My final question is what needs to be done now, if the VVD is to say that it really is over and that we must finally decide not to let Turkey into the European family, into the European community of values. What else needs to happen after everything that's already happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u11	I must honestly say that I cannot answer that question in concrete terms. It is not unthinkable that the moment will ever come when the country goes so far overboard that we will stop. At the moment I see no reason or, above all, no interest for ourselves to do so. I think that's gonna put Erdogan even more firmly in the saddle. He can then say: see, Europe must not have us. We shouldn't want that. Moreover, in view of the economic and geopolitical interests that have just been mentioned, I do not see any reason at this time to unilaterally end candidate membership from the Netherlands, as the accession process is virtually stalling. I don't think that's directly in our best interest. Certainly as long as the process stops, there is no need for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Segers has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u13	I'm a little surprised anyway. I now hear more optimism in Mr Verheij's voice about the accession process in relation to Turkey than in a previous debate, in which he quoted himself when he said outside the Chamber that he would never see it coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u14	It's all quiet. The country is in decline and has been farther away than ever since accession, given the developments in recent years. So no, I never see it coming. That is also why I am not getting so nervous about the status of candidate-member of this country. Indeed, I am not giving up on the country because I think it is still a strategic partner for us, including in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u15	Perhaps I am asking the same question as Mr Beertema, but in a slightly different way. So what's the red line in negotiations? If this value is trampled on, isn't it the end of the story? Then we really have to stop negotiating, don't we? Or is it endlessly elevable, can this democratic rule of law be violated endlessly and does the VVD still want to continue to talk while there is nothing but decline?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u16	No. I have just said that I can very well imagine that there are red lines somewhere. That can always happen, but I'm not going to name when that is. I don't think that makes any sense. Secondly, I do not see any need at the moment to say 'toodle-oo'. I don't think that's in our best interest. We will lose leverage in the talks, but I would not want to send such a note unilaterally from the Netherlands, especially from an economic and geopolitical point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u18	Two points. The report of the Foreign Minister's recent trip to Turkey was quite brief. Mr Knops and others have already asked supplementary questions which I agree with, for example how the Minister assesses the time at which the Dutch journalists were arrested or questioned. Are both journalists, Mrs Geerdink and Mr Ülger, no longer suspects at the moment and are they free to practice their profession? What exactly was the response of the Turkish counterpart? With regard to the implementation, progress and possibilities of the Segers c.s. motion. On the pre-accessory money that was adopted in December, I would like to join Mr Segers' question as to whether the Minister sees the possibility of taking this one step further in the coming period, by making pre-accessory money conditional on progress. Does the Minister also see a role for the Chamber vis-à-vis other parliaments in getting progress on that dossier? We have often said here that we cannot finance Turkey with pre-accessional funds, whereas that country is not making any progress, even worse, in reverse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again discussing the relationship between the European Union and Turkey, a long-term relationship. As early as 1963, Turkey and the then EEC concluded an agreement which promised Turkey membership. Over the next 50 years, there have always been stages in which Turkey has come closer to the EU or the relationship has been on hold or even on edge for some time. Finally, Turkey became a candidate country in 1999 and in 2004, under the Dutch Presidency and under the leadership of CDA Prime Minister Balkenende, it was decided to open the accession negotiations. Turkey is on the outskirts of Europe, next to a Middle East torn by civil wars. The PvdA considers it really important to keep Turkey in mind and wants Turkey to turn its face to us, go through a process of democratisation towards the standards of the Copenhagen criteria and towards a transparent and open society. To that end, we must not turn our backs on Turkey. But that's a long way, full of bumps and pits. This is also reflected in the progress reports by the European Commission and in the report by the European Parliament rapporteur on Turkey by Mr Kati Piri, who was discussed in the European Parliament today. During his visit last week, the Minister himself was also confronted with the arrest of two Dutch journalists. In December, a month ago, we debated Turkey and its accession twice. Then, just like now, very critical notes were cracked, also by the PvdA. What did the government do with the motion, as Mr Segers did earlier, which was adopted? In the European Parliament, too, there is now a motion calling for pre-accessional means to be focused on freedom of the press and on improving the rule of law and the judiciary, in line with what has also been said here in the Chamber, including by the PvdA. What is the state of the government and what steps are being taken? We see that freedom of the press and freedom of expression are under real pressure. I thank the Minister for the letter he sent about his visit to Turkey last week. Freedom of the press and freedom of expression are important elements of political reform and democratic freedoms that are so under pressure in Turkey. These reforms and freedoms are an important element of the Copenhagen criteria to be met by candidate countries. What has Minister Koenders discussed with the Prime Minister and his colleagues on this issue? How did he experience the arrest of the two Dutch journalists in this context? Is he satisfied that Turkey is moving towards the EU and that the Turkish Government has the will to take the right steps? Or has he received disturbing signals? What is needed now for Turkey and for the EU to give a positive signal to the accession process? In short, I agree with Mr Van Bommel's question on the economic zone and Cyprus. Turkey is on the outskirts of Europe, next to a Middle East torn by civil wars. The PvdA therefore considers it important that we try to keep Turkey in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. On 17 December last year, we discussed in detail the path of accession and the lack of results, even after about 12 years. That is what we did during the debate on the European Summit. I said it then, and I will say it again: the Ankara agreement laid down Turkey's future accession as early as 1963; this dossier has been going on for so long. So I have a strong déjà vu feeling. That is not surprising, because a lot of water has flowed through the Bosphorus since February 2014, when the then Foreign Minister called Timmermans Turkey welcome as an EU Member State, while it was far from certain that that country would ever meet the conditions. No one has thought of implementing an exit strategy in the far-reaching process of accession of what would become the EU's largest country, both in terms of area and population, in case of such a situation that accession is no longer possible. We find that incomprehensible. As if a European prestige project can only go one way, that is to say, the side of successful accession. For the PVV and for more and more parties in this house there are more and more political reasons to stop. Accession becomes almost impossible or completely impossible, because the President of the country provokes us with crazy statements. Turkey makes its accession impossible because journalists are being arrested in an extremely provocative manner, including Dutch journalists, and because freedom of expression is being restricted. At last, it is widely recognised in this Chamber that there are major dangers to the Turkish rule of law. I mention, among other things, the change in law which restricts the freedom of the Internet, the impairment of the autonomy of the Supreme Court, judges and prosecutors, mass transfers and dismissals from the judiciary and from the police, and recently raids in newspaper papers and mass arrests there. Since February 2014, when our Foreign Minister had his elated conversation with his Turkish counterpart, all this has happened. The case of accession has not improved, but much worse. Other parties have since accepted our view that it is impossible for Turkey to join. There is criticism from the VVD now that it has gone wrong in recent times and also the CDA has had enough of the developments. In the NRC of 15 December 2014, both parties say that they want the European Union to suspend or restrict financial support to Turkey. We welcome this critical attitude, but we also want to see butter in the fish. We have recently tabled two motions calling for a definitive end to the accession negotiations. We say to the EU: swallow your inappropriate pride, acknowledge that Turkey's accession has failed and take the political decision to say to the people of Europe that you have made a mistake. Before many more subsidies go to Turkey to help the country get ready for accession, we are now reducing the damage. This requires political courage, including from the parties still, against better knowledge, bound to this mission impossible. These are the VVD, the Labour Party, the SP, the CDA and GroenLinks. Those parties have the key in their hands. They voted against our motions to make a final decision. Perhaps the Minister will say in his term: we stop. I am not going to table any motions, of course, but I feel my political water that he is not going to do so. Then I shall table a few motions in the second term. Then I call on these parties to vote in favour of these motions or, if necessary, to vote in favour of motions from other parties seeking to achieve the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its questions, comments and analyses. I think that this clearly shows that there are concerns about the situation in Turkey. At the same time, it also describes how complex the country is. Turkey is a large country. It's strategically important. Turkey is a NATO partner. According to a large majority in the Chamber, Turkey is still a candidate for membership of the European Union, although its feelings are mixed. In any case, it is a country with which we have relations. We want to maintain them as intensively as possible in order to arrive at an honest conversation with that country. That was also one of the reasons why the Turkish Government invited me to the ambassador conference, where I made my contribution on all the points raised by the Chamber today. For a large part it is in the light of the critical remarks made to me by the Dutch Parliament. Given the time and the fact that it is an expression of my predecessor almost a year ago, I do not want to keep a whole story about Turkey itself. I would like to say that I share the concerns of the Chamber in many areas, but I would like to ensure that there is some simplification. Turkey has a huge problem with the strategy for neighbouring countries, with regard to a peace process with the Kurds. Turkey has a hugely rapid economic development, but there is now clear stabilisation. On the subject of freedom of the press, there is a decline. That doesn't make it any easier. I therefore think it is important that this is the essence of the importance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and of me as Minister of Foreign Affairs to serve the Dutch interests in an intensive discussion with Turkey. So that's what we've done. In addition, Turkey is not a friend nor an enemy. It's a different country. These are the reasons I have just mentioned. In any case, a large majority in this Chamber does not want to move away from Turkey's candidate status for the European Union. This includes the fact that Turkey is a member of NATO. In a very complex political-strategic situation, there is a need for intensive diplomacy. In addition, we have experienced a number of developments that have been difficult in the past period. They have all been discussed in my talks with both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Turkey. I would like to say a few things about this in the light of the questions that have been asked. There are also a large number of problems with regard to refugees in Turkey at the moment. There are 1.2 million refugees. There were 30,000 deaths in the last period due to the conflicts with the PKK. At the moment, there is also a major internal debate in Turkey in the light of the elections, so that things are getting sharper from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Knops has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u23	When it comes to Turkey, you often hear that it is an ally. There is no denying that in the context of NATO. They lie in an area that is extremely complicated and complex. You often hear that we have to understand that. Or don't we have to understand that? The Minister just said it in different terms. Can the Minister explain to me the relationship between the total lack of freedom of the press and the geopolitical situation, which we all need to understand? Why, apparently, should we not be critical of Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u24	Words are now being put in my mouth that I really didn't say. I'm describing a situation, actually. I would like to mention the reasons why I am critical of Turkey and have had intensive talks. I'll get to the point of freedom of the press in a minute. I didn't want to give that impression at any time. As a minister in the European Union, I am at the forefront of statements on freedom of the press, changes in IPA support and on the issue of on-the-spot discussion in Turkey and the release of journalists. So it is difficult for you to say that I understand it, quite the contrary. I'm just starting to describe how Turkey works. This is sometimes interesting, perhaps, in the light of political positions that are subsequently involved. I didn't use the word "understanding." I have just told you about how I, the Dutch Government, see Turkey at the moment. The CDA Group has been strongly in favour of EU candidacy for years. Prime Minister Balkenende and several ministers were very much in favour of this. On the contrary, I would like to show you that the situation is complicated on a number of points and that it is also deteriorating on a number of points. I would like to say a few words about that. I did not say anything about understanding because of the geostrategic situation and about something that I did not want to raise. Maybe the opposite is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u25	I do not buy as much for points of view as 15 years ago when the situation has deteriorated dramatically. That is exactly what this debate is about, as has already been said by a number of colleagues. We assess Turkey on progress or the lack of progress in a number of processes that are necessary to be able to join the European Union at all. Yes, we supported that at the time. However, we are very concerned about the situation. When it comes to the freedom of the press, the Minister is visiting and is faced with the fact that this freedom of the press is being curtailed again, then it is important to debate this very strongly and not to start by explaining why Turkey is in a very special situation. I don't understand. In doing so, he creates the picture, at least with me, whatever you hear in the debates, which is so complicated in Turkey. As if that would be an excuse for those basic things, which this minister also stands for once and again, he also expressed that he would not have to comply with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u26	There is a lot of talk about imaging, but I have not brought forward any of these analyses. So I don't feel spoken to. It was a response to Minister Timmermans' statements that he would welcome Turkey as an EU Member State and that he would involve opening of negotiating chapters 23 and 24 in a dialogue on the rule of law. These are comments made almost a year ago at the Wittenburg Conference. The Chamber wants to debate this with me today. As Minister Timmermans explained at the time in the letter of Parliament in a response to parliamentary questions, his statements were in line with the cabinet policy that Turkey is at least a candidate country. Several letters from successive Cabinets have stated that if Turkey meets all the strict conditions, it will be able to join. This fits seamlessly into the Dutch strict-and-fair policy: strictly on the conditions and when it is met fair in the decision. Whether that means that Turkey will actually join in the long term, and I say this to Mr Knops, who has just asked me to do so, cannot be said with certainty. As with other candidate countries, this is an open-ended process. It is therefore not certain whether Turkey will become a member. It is up to Turkey to meet the conditions. As far as the ruling on chapters 23 and 24 is concerned, the cabinet already stated in March 2013 that it was in favour of dealing with the chapters of the rule of law, precisely because we have serious concerns about this. I have repeated this in my talks with the Turkish Government. Where we have the biggest problems is precisely the rule of law. A number of points have been raised. It is certainly not just the freedom of the press. It is also about corruption and what is sometimes called 'the deep state', about a number of concerns which I believe the Chamber as a whole shares with me and which I share with the Chamber. It is precisely because of this importance that I think we should put that first. I agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that, at the moment that that blockade would be lifted from Cyprus, there is, of course, a new weighing moment. However, it is precisely these chapters that are essential to ensure that the great concerns we all have about the rule of law are brought to the fore. That is what former colleague Timmermans said at the time. Accession negotiations are on the agenda as long as a majority of the Chamber considers Turkey to be an accession country. I have seen that there is still a large majority in favour of this, but there are concerns about its progress. I share those concerns. That is why the process is very slow and no new chapters are being opened. That is why the Dutch government is at the forefront when it comes, for example, to condemning the restriction of freedom of the press. We saw that in the last Council of Foreign Ministers. There this was a Dutch initiative. Then I come to a number of points relating to the support for the motions tabled earlier in the Chamber by Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u27	But first, Mr Van Bommel has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The new way of working in the accession process is also that Chapters 23 and 24 are seen as important chapters, which need to be highlighted, especially in countries such as Turkey, i.e. countries where there are problems in this area. The question is whether this new approach of the European Union is effective in the context of the enlargement strategy. We have to note that, in fact, we are not opening new chapters, but at the same time, in the areas covered by Chapters 23 and 24, such as the rule of law and democracy, there is not a standstill, but a decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u30	The criticism of the Minister in Turkey was therefore justified, but perhaps we should go a step further and look for more pressure to ensure that, instead of going backwards, there is at least some initial progress. That is not the case in these areas. Does the Minister share that judgment and, if so, what will he do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u31	Yes, I agree with Mr Van Bommel on that point. As there is a decline in this area, I think it is important to raise these chapters as a matter of priority. In this way, you also have a real point when you negotiate with Turkey. After all, there are no blockades for very different reasons, but they have priority for the European Union, in the light of the Copenhagen criteria. These are the points on which we and the Chamber are most concerned. I therefore agree with Mr Van Bommel on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u32	We ourselves are serious about those chapters and conditions that are being imposed from Europe. The Netherlands, of course, fully endorses this acquis, also in relation to the newcomers. At some point, however, the situation arises in which you have to say: enough is enough. Further deterioration is no longer acceptable at any time. Then there are other instruments, such as accession aid, pre-accession funds and other things. We can't just sit back and watch things get worse on these important issues. As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, there is also a limit to the permissible level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u33	I also agree with Mr Van Bommel on this point. That is exactly the strategy we are pursuing. The priority is the situation in which we have seen a decline, at least in the last two years, in areas such as freedom of the press and a number of other issues relating to the rule of law. That is why we have said: if you want to have the most influence, it must be the opening of chapters 23 and 24. I agree with Mr Van Bommel. Then you also have much more influence on Turkey. In Turkey, people are going to say: you do not even want to open those chapters, so what exactly are you going to come up with? Sometimes you have to look at it from the other side, because we're not always right. If this is not possible, for reasons which are not of the Dutch Government, it is the Netherlands that has taken the initiative to take other initiatives. Then I come to the point of the Segers and IPA motion. The decision-making process on IPA for 2014 has been completed, as is well known. The Dutch Government has proposed to amend the case on a number of points, also in view of the motion tabled in the Chamber. Firstly, we need to ensure that much more of the money goes to the point where the most problems are, namely the rule of law. That's what happened. The percentage of IPA funds allocated to this element of aid to Turkey has increased significantly. In my mind, it reached 19%. Secondly, the Dutch Government in the European Union, at the last meeting of the Foreign Ministers, took the initiative to establish a direct relationship between IPA and progress on precisely the points raised by the Chamber. This has been brought in by the Dutch Government, even with a draft declaration. I was on my own. There is no other country in the European Union that thinks so, neither is Greece. It is said that Turkey is very important, we see the risks of these problems, including in the area of freedom of the press, but we do not think this is an appropriate means. I'll continue that fight. For this reason, the declaration contains a general notion of the relationship between accession aid and the progress made on the points referred to. I'll keep doing that. However, I would also like to mention reality. There is no other country that has this opinion. Some progress has been made in Turkey, for example with regard to certain courts and legislative changes. It's not just black. I agree with the House that we do not agree with a number of points, such as freedom of the press. The Dutch Government will therefore continue to fight. The motion is, I think, very well implemented, but of course it is up to the Chamber and not to me. However, I do not see the force field changing suddenly in the Council on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you to the Minister for implementing the motion and for indicating that it is not over after the first disappointing experience, but that the discussion continues, precisely because Articles 23 and 24 on the rule of law are so crucial. I'd like to ask you a question about that. Does the Minister agree with me that the relationship between the EU and Turkey stands or falls with the recognition of the value of the rule of law? It may be that we talk endlessly about all kinds of economic relations and details, but that the paths will disintegrate when the discussion comes to the rule of law. This can be the crucial point in the relationship between the EU and Turkey, the "go/no go" moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u35	I agree with Mr Segers that this is about the credibility of the negotiations between the European Union and Turkey. That's what we're actually talking about tonight: do we really want it and do the other side really want it? Apart from the formality, the majority of the Chamber says that Turkey is a candidate and that it does not want to abolish it immediately. She wants to see how she can handle that critically. You then look at the dynamics: how can you have maximum influence on that? One thing I can assure you: a country will never become a member if it does not meet the conditions. I don't think there's too much concern about that. It's much worse what's happening now. Of course, Turkey will not become a member if it does not meet the Copenhagen criteria. Within the Copenhagen criteria, it is absolutely essential to put this issue first. That is why the Dutch Government has said that it will try everything in the direction of Cyprus and other countries to get those chapters opened first. Then a lever will be created and that will increase our credibility towards the Turks. After all, they could say that Europe does not really want to, because there is, of course, that feeling. That is also apparent from some of the votes in the Chamber. But if it doesn't work, don't sit back passively. That is why we have appreciated the motion and carried it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u36	Is it not imaginary that we are talking for a very long time and that Articles 23 and 24 will only come along at the end and then turn out to be a definitive blockade for accession? We may be able to work very well together in all kinds of areas, but it is not possible when it comes to the rule of law. That could be the end of the discussion. It's an open end, so the minister should be able to imagine it. At the same time, Chancellor Merkel said, for example, that we need to think about an alternative, such as a privileged partnership. In doing so, you work together economically, but let go of each other at the point of the rule of law. Is that an alternative that is being considered and what is being discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u37	I will reply first to the first part of the question and then to Chancellor Merkel's remark. Mr Segers asks if you run the risk of opening the case on all those chapters, when you are not talking about the key issue. I think that's just a theoretical possibility. I think it is an opportunity that the Netherlands should not let happen. We also have a voice in that, we can block something. I'm not going to announce that right now, but I'm going to say it's an important part for us. The VVD Group has already said that there must be a weighing moment. What priorities do you set? It doesn't mean you shouldn't open any other chapter. If I were a Member of Parliament, I wouldn't worry too much about that. At the moment, the negotiations are still. The only movement is in Chapter 17, on economic monetary matters which have a little less to do with the rule of law. As far as I am concerned, these cannot be the last chapters to be completed. However, given the Council's feelings, I do not think that is very likely either. The second point concerns a discussion that took place a while ago. Thinking about the relationship between the EU and Turkey does not have to stand still. Everyone has to be open about that. The government's position is that Turkey is a candidate country and that we should conduct our negotiations on that basis. Let me give you an example. I have talked intensively with the Turks about a customs union that I believe everyone is in favour of and the international trade agreement. It is a country where the economy has been greatly dynamic, where a larger middle class has grown and where an enormous economic development has taken place over the last seven years. That middle class is important to the things we're talking about here. How can we then ensure that there is no standstill and that the strengthening of the customs union is worked out? This can be done simultaneously with maintaining Turkey's candidate status in the European Union. Let me now turn to a few specific questions on freedom of the press. I agree with most of the points raised. Freedom of the press is a key element of the Copenhagen criteria and the European Union condemns how things are in Turkey. The same goes for Mrs Mogherini. It has been raised in Turkey, but it has not yet been resolved. The country's a little too complicated for that. The exact reason for Mrs Geerdink's arrest has been asked. Mrs Geerdink was interrogated on Tuesday afternoon 6 January in her hometown of Diyarbakir and has been accused of propaganda for a terrorist organisation. There were a number of points: clarification about her residence and work permit and the statement in her blog on 5 December 2014 that she would be disappointed if Öcalan proclaimed a permanent cease-fire. In the conversations I had, it also became clear to me that these were photographs of Geerdink with one of the PKK commanders. Those were the reasons given. Whether this has been done formally or informally; these are the facts that have been put forward. One of the members asked for it. The Turkish court has forbidden the display of the cover of Charlie Hebdo on the internet. This shows what we are talking about here, namely a problem relating to freedom of the press and freedom of expression. I therefore share the sentiments of the Chamber on that point. This is precisely why I raised human rights and, above all, freedom of expression and freedom of the press in my visit. I was asked whether I should not have left the country immediately. I've been about to do that. We were faced with a first arrest and then I had a discussion about it. It's likely that's why this person was released. Then of course it is very bad to see the same thing again the next morning. That's not acceptable. I therefore said that I would leave the country immediately if this were not clarified. Now is the question of what happened and whether it is a coincidence or not. There are three possibilities. 1. Yeah, it's a coincidence. I don't think that's a great opportunity, but I can't totally rule it out. 2. It has been an action of the government to make a point of this in the light of previous relations with the Netherlands. That does not seem very likely to me, because at the same time it was said, at least in the second case, that the government was not exactly informed. I think she has a point there. I couldn't even find any information on that arrest. That's why it took some time for that person to be released. Furthermore, the Turkish Government has informed me that this has to do with the problem of Gülen. In the view of the Turkish Government, there might have been elements at work that have been infiltrated in the judiciary to shirt the Turkish government. That's three options. I'm not gonna make a choice. I can't, because I don't have any proof of that. I am not interested in this either in the end, because the essence of the matter is that it cannot be that, whether I am there or not, journalists are being arrested. I actually have to say "taken in," because they were not formally arrested but arrested for questioning. We'll keep an eye on that case. I think there are still a number of accusations against these people. The Netherlands will continue to monitor this. By the way, it proves how complicated that country is. Mr Knops is absolutely right that this has nothing to do with the way in which we should then appreciate it. We are based on principles of freedom of the press and Copenhagen criteria. It is also a good thing to be sorry to say that Mr Knops has a certain interest in a country and what is actually going on there. I also think we should look closely at the situation internally. In any case, I am pleased that the European Parliament, too, actually has exactly the same way of thinking on this issue as the Dutch Government. It is critical of the freedom of the press, but also of a number of other issues relating to the rule of law. The rapporteur's proposal is to submit a resolution to this House. I believe that Mrs Maij referred to it in order to establish a relationship between, as Mr Segers wants, coherence in the field of accession funds and freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u38	At times I hear a minister who is perfectly clear about what he thinks, but then there are always comments about how complicated it is, how complex it is, and that the Minister does not really care what the real option was. I do not think that is the approach that the Netherlands should adopt. We should like to know what the real reason for this was, and we have to act every time that the Minister has done well if that is necessary. We must not think lightly about that. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u39	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u40	So the Minister takes back the words he said: I don't really care which of the options was really going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u41	No, I'm not taking back words at all. You should know, Mr Knops, that the Netherlands is at the forefront of freedom of the press. Journalists say to the Netherlands: The Netherlands has risen at least once. I have spoken to journalists on the spot who have said: at last there is a government that makes the point clear. There is a report in the European Parliament that supports this, in which journalists discuss how positive that is. I find it very difficult to say that I wouldn't care. It is a key point: it is precisely because we are talking to Turkey that we are raising this issue. It might be good to keep an eye on a country that is complex for a while. I didn't say this meant we shouldn't operate, did I? I have tried to explain the possible indications as to how this has been achieved, but this does not in any way affect, for example, our appreciation of the accession process or the Copenhagen criteria. I think that we are really no different from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u42	I'm looking for where the minister's border is. We had the Yunus affair. In addition, Islamic children were not allowed to be housed in foster homes with homosexual foster parents or Christian foster parents. We have interfered in our integration policy. Erdogan has said that Turks do not need to integrate into the West. Our reporters have been arrested. Now there is another statement about the attacks in Paris: they are not because of Islam, but because of the West. Erdogan literally said that. I am not looking for those formal accession negotiations and the Copenhagen criteria. I believe that Turkey should never join the EU, so we will soon be done with that. I am looking for the answer to the question of what the Netherlands is sending out outside of that for signals that we are not accepting this, that we are not being humiliated by Turkey. That's how I'd see it. If I were the minister and there were two arrests of Dutch journalists there during my stay, I would see that as a humiliation. What can this minister do? And where's his line, then he says, "Here and no further?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u43	Firstly, I have indicated that the Dutch Government and myself have acted very actively and have not been humiliated in any way. On the contrary, we made sure that those people were released immediately. What would be the point for authorities to arrest someone and then release them immediately under pressure? There is now a great debate in the European Parliament and elsewhere, partly as a result of these incidents. I don't feel it at all like a humiliation. I have just said what I think might be something of a background to that. Secondly, the Dutch position on all the subjects mentioned by Mr Bontes is crystal clear, whether it concerns the position of that child last year, the freedom of the press or certain elements of integration. I think we are going to have another debate on that last subject. Mr Bontes may talk about red lines, but I am not going to send the Armada to Turkey. I am engaged in a major debate on important issues with other countries. That's what we need to do right now. We can't lecture everyone, every moment, worldwide. We are actively defending our values and values when we are there and when we return to action in the European Union and elsewhere. That's a sharp position. I do not agree with you that the Dutch Government would have no red lines. We do, but we do have relations with Turkey, as we have relations with most countries. We sometimes like those countries and sometimes we don't like them. We also have relations with countries where human rights are very bad, but that does not mean that we are okay with it. That doesn't mean we're crazy Henkie. That does mean that we have strong conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u44	Despite the red line that apparently exists, but which I have not yet seen, there is no consequence of the behaviour of Erdogan and Turkey. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u45	I don't agree with you. I just said what that behavior has to do with it. I understand that you do not share the objective. That's not what we're into. You believe that Turkey should not become a member of the European Union. I understand that, but that is a route followed by a majority of the Chamber. Inside we have drawn red lines. We have put forward proposals on support for the progress of the negotiations on the chapters I have just spoken about. Those really aren't little things. This seems bureaucratic, but it has to do with direct economic and political interests between Europe and Turkey. I have also said that it is important that we talk to Turkey. Again, that is not a nuance, but I can really endorse that. It is important that we talk to Turkey. I do not think that is wrong at all, even if we disagree with that government on a number of points. These points have rightly been raised. We are also making progress in the fight against terror. Let me give you an example of what Mr Bontes might like. Turkey welcomes 1.2 million refugees. They're not here, they're there. This costs the Turkish Government EUR 5.5 billion. Of course, I will not talk less about freedom of the press, but I can see that the world is just a little more complex than to say everywhere that this cannot or cannot be done or what the red line is. I can't determine policy in every country. I can say that something is acceptable or not within the standards and values of the Netherlands. This cabinet is very assertive in that. It is not for nothing that I stood alone in the European Union. Questions have also been asked on the Cyprus issue. For the time being, the Republic of Cyprus has unilaterally suspended all negotiations with the Turkish Cypriots, after Turkey and the unrecognised Turkish Republic in the north announced early October that they would carry out seismic investigations in the EEZ of Cyprus. The Turkish ship Barbaros is working on that right now. On 6 January Turkey decided to extend the mission of the Turkish research vessel Barbaros until 6 April, as reported by one of the spokesmen. Turkey has received a great deal of international criticism. Mr Eide, the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative, has bilateral contacts with both communities. He's making conversations in Cyprus now. The prospects for the resumption of negotiations in the short term are bleak. It is unlikely that anything will happen until 6 April. Then there are supposedly presidential elections in northern Cyprus, but we do not recognise them. Elections will take place in Turkey in May and June. I am convinced that we must return to the negotiating table and be constructive, as we have discussed with the Turkish Government. We are also going to talk about this with Cyprus. Espen Eide is someone I know well from the past. I hope that all parties will recognize that a solution is in everyone's interest and that they will return quickly to the negotiating table. I believe that this is important in the Cyprus issue, which has been going on since the 1960s, but is now accelerating on a number of points. For this reason, too, Cyprus is blocking the negotiations on the chapters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u46	I asked the simple question whether, in the opinion of the Minister, that seismographic investigation in that area of Cyprus is legal or illegal action by Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u47	I find it difficult to assess whether that is legal or illegal. The most important thing is to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u48	There were already some issues between Turkey and Cyprus that are awaiting a solution, such as the opening of the port and airport and the Ankara Protocol. Okay, here's what's gonna happen. As with the other issues, we need to draw a line at some point and say: enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u49	That's a point, isn't it? This is a very different matter from the previous one. Countries, including Greece, also take different positions in Cyprus. I would not want to place this directly on one level with freedom of the press, corruption, anti-terrorism or the Kurdish question. You can say that it's one amalgam and that it's all bad, but I don't think that's exactly the right approach. It's about getting out of here as soon as possible. Moreover, I have no problem telling you that Turkey must comply with the Ankara Protocol. I understand the Cypriot frustration. I believe that this particular issue, the fair distribution of the resources of the island of Cyprus, should be dealt with through consultation. It's not so much a legal matter. Cyprus should be a unit. So what is there should also be equally divided. Everyone has a right to get part of the whole thing. That is why it is also necessary to negotiate through the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr Van Bommel, I see that you want to interrupt, but we are doing the interruptions in two. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u51	I would like to make a few comments on the issue of genocide. I believe that it has been discussed repeatedly in the Chamber, also on previous motions. As you know, the Dutch Government raises this issue with the Turkish authorities. Understandably, it continues to occupy the moods. There have, of course, been major violations of human rights. This year is also a specific year. In my own work I have had a lot to do with mass human rights violations and genocides. Sometimes they are described as "genocide," sometimes not. That controversy goes around that. In the past Foreign Affairs there was a very nice analysis of someone who has very much to do with this, namely that the use of the word has become very dominant and that the load of the word has become very absolute. This prevents the rapprochement and dialogue between the two countries on events. Let there be no misunderstanding: The Netherlands deeply regrets all the victims who fell in 1915. We're crystal clear about this. However, it is not up to the cabinet itself to indicate these historical events with very inhumane consequences. We are also sticking to the interpretation given to the motion by previous Cabinets. There are a number of initiatives between Armenia and Turkey to talk about it. Turkey is also ready to engage on the basis of the 2009 protocols. They are about establishing diplomatic ties, opening borders and a joint committee to study the events of 2015. The Turkish position is that the archives, including the military, are open to academic researchers. On the eve of last year's commemoration, you remember that probably Prime Minister Erdogan came with a surprising statement in nine languages, including West and East Armenian and Kurdish. In it he recognized that in the last years of the Ottoman Empire there has been a period in which the constituent peoples of the Ottoman Empire have suffered much. He specifically mentioned Turks, Kurds, Arabs and Armenians. That was a first. It was time too, but it is important that there should be a change of heart, also in thinking in Turkey about that terrible thing. He also stated that humanity has the task of recognising this shared suffering, including that of the Armenians. In his view, opinions, thoughts and perspectives on the events of 1915 can be expressed freely in Turkey, as is the case in a modern democracy. That's what he says. I know there is a lot to be said about this, but it is important. We must try to ensure that the Armenian issue comes out of the taboo. Let's talk about this one. The motion also asked us to discuss the issue of genocide with the Turkish authorities. She's become a little more discussable in recent years. I think that's a good thing. A dialogue is crucial. You know, however, that this is not part of the accession criteria. In fact, good relations between Armenia and Turkey are part of this. They're important. Whether or not the cabinet is present, I cannot say at the moment. We still don't know if we're gonna do that or not. We will look at this on a case-by-case basis. In any case, such a subject should not become a political divisive issue. It must be done in a way that brings reconciliation to everyone. That is at the heart of these very sensitive and serious issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u52	I agree with the Minister that this is not an issue where we must knowingly stand on long feet. There's a lot more going on. What is the miracle of Europe? That is the reconciliation between France and Germany, between England and Germany, after a bloody world war. This was conditional on the recognition of the suffering and harm done to those countries and the recognition of the guilt. Then reconciliation could take place, with the recognition of Germany in the sense of: yes, we were wrong. Now that war is no longer an issue and we can even play against Germany in a very relaxed way without too much emotion. That recognition was a prerequisite for that. So that should not be done with the phrase "ah, there are some academic issues" or with the question "what kind of word do you give?'. It is not about the word, it is about the recognition that it has taken place. If that is on the table, there can be much more between Turkey and Europe than is now possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u53	I agree. That's essential. It is not about the word, it is about the recognition that something has happened. It has to come from the people themselves. Then that part of your relationship becomes, by the way, that part of that between Turkey and Armenia. I am just making the point that it doesn't change what you're saying that it's not formally part of the accession negotiations. That is another point, which we also raise with the Turkish Government. It is true that it is an extremely sensitive issue. It is also true that this is perhaps difficult to say at this time of much criticism, and rightly so, in Turkey on a number of points which, in recent times, have become more discussable in Turkey than before. The same applies to the Kurdish question and the negotiations, whether they go well or not. That was impossible under the military regime and under the emerging democratic regimes. In Turkey as a state, nothing was to be said about minorities. I see a change in that, and I think we should take that turn. This concerns the relationship between Turkey and Armenia and the recognition of what has happened there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u54	That turn of events is hopeful. The relationship with the Kurds is hopeful. Those are indeed more hopeful signals than we have seen in a long time. I would like to return to a few words which the Minister spoke earlier about the possible interpretation of the motion. That's what I was referring to in my contribution. The letter from Minister Timmermans, which is the basis of this debate, refers to the relationship with Armenia, while the motion refers to the recognition of the Armenian genocide in that dialogue in so many words. I don't know how many different signs of this are possible. The motion seems very clear to me on this point. The letter says something else: as if it only related to the relationship with Armenia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u55	I understand. It is certainly not just about the relationship with Armenia. I think that's obvious. Besides, people who file a motion are also concerned with the explanation of that, as I learned in this house when I was still on your side. It is, by the way, a motion that was tabled some time ago. At the time, the cabinet also told us how this is going. This was not only about the relationship with Armenia, but also about the recognition of the genocide. The government has said that it does not adopt this terminology and does not define it itself, but considers it crucial in its relations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u56	We shall continue with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Foreign Minister for his answers, but I think he still owes me some answers. I had made the point that accusations were made against Turkey about possible cooperation in the supply of arms to Al-Qaeda. I have a number of supplementary questions on this. Those documents were handed over to the Minister of Justice. That was just in the time of the handover to this minister. The question is whether the Minister of Justice, prior to this Minister's visit, shared that information and documents with him. At least I'll tell the Minister he'll get those documents. It's a complicated matter to take off now. If the Minister cannot do so today, I ask him to respond in writing. I would also ask the Minister, following his predecessor, to inform the Chamber of planned foreign visits. It's always good if the Foreign Minister is abroad a lot. There's a lot going on, too. It was a good use of his predecessor to do so. That was not the case in the case of the trip to Turkey. I listened very carefully to the Foreign Minister. As I have just said in the interruption, I thought at some points: is there now an image here to show how complicated it is in Turkey, perhaps with the result that we have not too high an expectation of what is going on? At other times, I saw a passionate minister, who stands for the rule of law, freedom of expression and who has also acted very undiplomatically in Turkey in the positive sense of the word "too." Several media have reported on this. It is not so much that the situation in Turkey is problematic. It's much more serious: it's just going the wrong way. I think we can see that. The question is how we can get it in the right direction and what resources can be used for it. In the opinion of our group, we must be clear against the Turks with regard to the abuses that exist. We denounced a number of things there during a visit by the Permanent Chambers Committee last year. This minister is doing the same thing. Our group would like the Minister to continue to do so. I look forward to answering the questions that have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. I feel the need to send the minister out with some homework. I do not do that by motion, because I think we can agree on it. First I come to the issue of freedom of the press. This directly affects the Dutch interest. Dutch journalists may be prosecuted. It's not quite clear yet. I had contact with one of them. I ask the Minister to follow the case of Frederike Geerdink and Mehmet Ulger and to see how the right in Turkey is being used to possibly restrict the freedom of the press of these two specific journalists. With regard to freedom of expression, I would ask the Minister to continue to press for the amendment of Article 301. I believe that Turkey is also obliged to do so in view of the European negotiations. Reform of anti-terrorist legislation is necessary from the point of view of Europe and negotiation. So I ask the Minister to follow that process. With regard to Cyprus, I would like to ask whether what is happening with regard to seismographic measurements is legal or illegal. I would ask the Minister to find out more and to inform the Chamber about this. Finally, I come to the Armenian genocide. The Chamber did use that verdict, that qualification. That right belongs to the Chamber. We also see this in other parliaments, in the United Kingdom and elsewhere, sometimes on other issues, but also in the case of the Armenian genocide. The Chamber has said so. We will continue to call on the Minister from the SP Group to do the same. In any case, I expect the social conditions in the Netherlands and in Europe to become such that the Dutch Government will soon be able and willing to be at the commemoration of the Armenian genocide. That memorial will take place this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that there are serious concerns about developments in Turkey. They stay and they grow. We also see that the acceptance of accession is shrinking among the population there and among the population in the European Union. My first question is: do we not lose a great deal of support for a good relationship with a possible good neighbour if we continue indefinitely with a process that is already still, a process in which we have to be extremely depressed about the rule of law and that may take a very long time? Don't we lose a lot of what we might now be able to preserve by working towards a different relationship? With my last question, I shall once again join Mr Van Bommel. In the possible good relationship with Turkey, the recognition of guilt and the work on reconciliation are very important. Is the cabinet prepared to be present at the 100th anniversary of the genocide and to show that it weighs very heavily on us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr. Chairman. I am focusing on the provocation of Turkey against Dutch journalists. My position on the accession negotiations and the general accession of Turkey to the EU is clear and I am therefore zooming in on Dutch journalists. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey has arrested two Dutch journalists;]] [[Whereas the abolition of freedom of the press in Turkey must be strongly condemned;]] [[calls on the Government to recall the Dutch ambassador from Ankara if Dutch journalists are arrested again for exercising their profession,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. There is often talk of a positive agenda with regard to Turkey. The VVD is in favour of that. This is not so much a positive agenda when it comes to the accession negotiations as when it comes to the other interests, i.e. economic interests and geopolitical cooperation with Turkey in that important region. This also concerns cooperation between Cyprus and Armenia, which has just been discussed. I think there is enough to win in the relationship with Turkey and we both have an interest in that. We have talked extensively about freedom of the press and freedom of expression. The concerns about this are widely shared in this Chamber. We have seen debates on this in the European Parliament this week, as well as a resolution by the rapporteur, Mr Kati Piri. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed the many incidents surrounding the freedom of the press and freedom of expression that have occurred in Turkey, including the arrest of two Dutch journalists;]] [[whereas a 154th place for Turkey at the World Press Freedom Index 2014 is illustrative of the condition of freedom of the press in Turkey;]] [[Whereas freedom of the press and freedom of expression are fundamental to a democratic society;]] [[condemns Turkey's current course and situation in the area of freedom of the press and freedom of expression;]] [[calls on the government, at EU level, to bring this explicitly to the attention of the Turkish Government and to call for a concrete improvement programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verheijen, Mr Maij, Mr Segers, Mr Knops and Mr Van Bommel.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the first-term questions. It is clear that the PvdA continues to believe that we want Turkey to change and that democratic and political reforms are taking place in the country that will bring the country back to Europe and that it has the face of the European Union. For us, this means that we should not turn our backs on Turkey. With me, the question remains what is needed to give such a positive turn to the process. I hope the Minister will be able to explain this. We have talked about a process that has been going on for over 50 years, with ups and downs. The Minister has indicated a number of positive steps, but we have rightly focused today on a number of steps that have not been taken. What, for example, has the Minister discussed with the Prime Minister and his colleague? Does he feel that steps are indeed going to be taken soon to give the process a bit of a positive twist again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u63	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I can imagine that observers from the Turkish Government who have heard our Foreign Minister deliver a positive opinion to Ankara this evening. Where the Chamber broadly states that the accession case has become much worse, the Minister is making all of this into perspective and he also sees many positive sides, for example around the very cautious lifting of the genocide taboo. I don't think it's much. When you think about the carrot and the stick, important in foreign policy, I actually only see the carrot and not the stick. That's why I'm filing two motions, about the same as last time. We hope that all those who have a good heart for the stick will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u64	Then you'll have to do it a little quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u65	Okay, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Turkish Government restricts internet freedom, undermines the autonomy of the Supreme Court, judges and prosecutors and has recently severely restricted freedom of expression and freedom of the press by mass arrests of journalists;]] [[whereas this erosion of the rule of law and the disregard of fundamental freedoms directly contradicts the European values that we love;]] [[having noted that after a 12-year journey in which Turkey should have become a full democratic member of the Union, there is now little or no prospect of this;]] [[calls on the Government to actively engage in the cessation of accession negotiations with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, after 12 years, insufficient progress has been made in Turkey's path of accession as a full member of the European Union;]] [[whereas Turkey is not expected to make progress in the foreseeable future;]] [[calls on the Government to stop all accession aid to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-149]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u66	There are still a cordon plumbing to exist as the PVV was not allowed to sign certain motions. Democracy is a difficult concept for some parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u67	I see the Minister can respond immediately if he has received the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u68	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the questions raised during the second term and the motions for resolutions tabled. I shall begin with questions about Turkey's alleged support for jihadists. I am familiar with the various publications and statements that claim that Turkey would have supported or provided support to jihadists in Syria and Iraq. However, as I indicated earlier in the answer to questions, the cabinet cannot confirm these messages. In talks with the Turkish authorities, these allegations are categorically denied. I have had discussions about this in Turkey. Those talks have made it clear what Turkey's position is. Turkey also sees ISIS as a terrorist organisation and participates actively in its fight against it, including in its financial squeeze. Turkey has placed ISIS on the list of terrorist organisations and has also expressed its willingness to support the coalition against ISIS. There is no international support for an investigation into Turkey's alleged support for jihadists. I spoke with Prime Minister Davutoğlu about Turkey's alleged support to ISIS. He rejected that accusation loud and clear. He believes that support for ISIS is incorrect and he also said that it is not taking place. It underlines the common objective of combating ISIS. Mr Knops asked me to reply to the letter he sent to the Minister for Security and Justice in response to the documents handed over. He was gonna pass that letter on to me, too. In any case, I will contact the Minister of Security and Justice and ask him what he did with the letter. Then I will reply to the Chamber. Moreover, I have already mentioned the position of the Dutch Government in relation to newspaper reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u69	In itself, this is a clear answer. The question is whether the Minister for Security and Justice shared my letter prior to the Foreign Minister's visit to Turkey. I'm afraid we pushed the letter into the wrong mailbox. The letter should have been sent to the Foreign Minister. I'll make that right, I'll tell the Minister, but the question is whether the Minister knew about magic. There are a number of documents that perhaps the Minister did not know, even when he answered the questions we asked earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u70	The Government's response to questions put by the Chamber and also the preparation of visits is interdepartmental. I therefore assume that this includes the information provided by Mr Knops. In any case, I come to the same conclusion that I have just indicated on behalf of the Dutch Government. Questions were also asked about Turkey's activities in the EEZ. The SP Group has repeatedly stressed the need to respect the sovereignty of the Member States of the European Union over their territorial seas. The sovereign right also includes the right to research and exploitation of natural resources, based on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We have already adopted the Council conclusions, in October and December. That's what the Chamber was informed about. We have said that we have serious concerns about the new tensions and that we call on Turkey to respect the sovereignty of Cyprus. Our position on the economic zone is clear and the position of the European Union is the same. However, I would point out that Turkey is not a member of the UN Convention. However, respect for it must be done. We have discussed the amendment of Article 301, the anti-terror legislation and some other elements. Such elements are important in the discussion with Turkey. Those elements are also addressed. This is, of course, being strengthened, and we have already discussed this in the first period if we can do so within the framework of the opening of these two chapters. So we do not need to reopen all the chapters, so that we can have much sharper debates with Turkey. I do not agree with the analysis that there would be no support for support for Europe in Turkey. On the contrary. Two elements play a role here. The first is on the formal front: we want to give fresh impetus to the negotiations with the European Union. There is also a new initiative from Turkey. We can find all kinds of things, but that has been transferred to us. This was also communicated to the Commissioner for Enlargement and to Mrs Mogherini during their visit to Turkey at the beginning of January. When you talk to a lot of citizens, you hear that there is a huge desire to belong to the European Union. I certainly don't think there's any less interest in all kinds of ways. Public opinion in Turkey is critical of Europe, as is the case here. It is felt that the European Union is training the negotiations. I think we should strengthen those bridges a little bit. That is independent of whether you like membership best or prefer a different formulation. I have already said that we are not thinking about this, but the formal position I am holding here is in future Turkey's membership. That doesn't change the fact that I wouldn't say there's no support for it. There is a reduction in support on both sides. That is why we need an impetus and a good substantive debate. That is why I have spoken with my Turkish colleagues. At the ambassador conference, where we spoke for two hours, there was an intense debate on these issues: what do we expect of each other, what do we want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u71	I was referring not so much to political support but to public support. The last two polls show that in one year the support of Turks who want to join the EU has decreased from 38% to 28%. There is therefore a significant reduction in the level of support. That is further at stake if you continue to frustrate those negotiations and allow endless simmering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u72	It is not right for me to doubt this kind of investigation, but I have great doubts about it. I do not know what methodology has been used. To be honest, 38% do not seem to me to be so high either. If it goes to 28%, it'll go backwards. It looks like support for the European Union in some European countries. I'll add that that doesn't happen by poll either. It's really something fundamental. But there will undoubtedly be a reduction in the last period of time, which I have also acknowledged. We are seeing a tightening of the contradictions between Europe and parts of the Middle East, but also Turkey and some other countries in our region. It is now taking a little too far to launch this debate, but we know public opinion. In Europe it is often said: Turkey is not good, it is risky, it is the beginning of an Islamic state. In Turkey people often think: Europe is bureaucracy, they want to tell us how to do it and so on. There is indeed a need for an intensive debate on this. I agree with the Chamber. We must ensure that the debate is on fair matters. That was one of my attempts when I visited Turkey. It's my job to do that, too. I agree that there must be social support and a social climate to strengthen commemorations on genocide. In that light, I cannot make any statement at this time as to whether we will be present or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u73	I can't help it. The Minister has also been a Member of Parliament. As a Member of Parliament, he has made himself clear. He's also been here at commemorations at the Square. Can I ask the Minister whether he would like to make an effort to get the government involved in that memorial, which is appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u74	Fit for sure. I'd like to agree with that. Let's just say we have to operate appropriately. But there is something else: you know, as I do, that there are enormous tensions on that memorial. Let's acknowledge that there are tensions. We've been there in previous years. In my view, forcing a government to go there or not is not the right method. We must work together to ensure that there is support and respect for the various populations, including on Dutch territory. Let us ensure that these matters are discussed with respect for each other. So it is not a question of saying here in one way or another that the government has to do this or that. We're not gonna fix that that way. We want to deal with this problem with respect for everyone. I think that this has also been the statements made by my colleagues in Social Affairs and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u75	I shall say it in a very soft tone: 'force' and'must' are words which have not occurred in my speech and neither do I think Mr Segers's speech. The Minister has to do a lot and is forcing a lot, but we are looking for acceptance and understanding on this point. We want to ensure that the tension, which I also see, does not increase further, but that there is relaxation and rapprochement. We are also looking for the reconciliation Mr Segers mentioned. I am convinced that the Minister was mistaken when he said that we are trying to force him and that he must do things in this area. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u76	I didn't tell you to do that, Mr Van Bommel. I've been told the government has to be there. That would be the only way to show that she takes the Armenian issue seriously. We take them very seriously, and you can really assume that. There have been terrible human rights violations there. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I think that such a memorial should be done in a good atmosphere. It's about the people themselves and not what the government does in place x or place y.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u77	It goes without saying that wisdom must be dealt with. The Minister is, of course, personally free to deal with this in wisdom. However, there are commemorations in several places, both there and here. Last year I asked Minister Asscher in an integration debate if he was prepared to look at such an invitation. He said he'd do this with an open mind. Is Minister Koenders prepared to examine with the same open mind, perhaps together with Minister Asscher, whether a memorial is served there or here by the presence of representatives of the Dutch cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u78	I don't have a problem with looking into that kind of thing. I will consider it on the basis of the elements I have just mentioned. I come to the question about the positive agenda. That's kind of a tricky one. The Chamber has informed me that there are concerns and criticisms. I share those points. There are people who criticize me for saying it's all complex. They say I want to take the edge off. That is not the case. There are strong criteria and we have raised them. A number of interests are really essential for the Netherlands. I think I agree with Mr Verheijen on this. Let me give you a very specific example. We spoke yesterday about the problem of foreign fighters. It is essential that we talk about this with Turkey. That's what I did. That's essential. It is in the interests of the safety of the Netherlands. That is why I want to have relations with Turkey. I will also reject all motions asking for all ambassadors to be brought back. I'm not gonna do that. However, it is no reason to cover matters. Everyone understands that the world is a little more complex. You can really assume that we take this very seriously, given the way in which we have dealt with the core of the Copenhagen criteria in the Netherlands and in the European Union. Sometimes that doesn't put us in the easiest position. Let's be honest about that, too. If you don't say anything, nothing will happen. Luckily, no one said that. Finally, I come to the assessment of the motions that have been tabled. Firstly, two motions have been tabled which have already been rejected in the debate on the European Council. Those are the motions on pieces Nos. 149 and 150 by Mr Bertema. Of course, he has the full right to retable those motions, but I see no reason why I should not advise the adoption of these motions again in the light of this debate. Mr Bertema will understand that, given our differences of opinion. Then I come to the Bontes motion on part No. 147. I have just said that for the reasons I mentioned, I do not think it is a good instrument to say that we are calling back the Dutch ambassador. I am not going into hypothetical scenarios at the moment either. That brings me to the Verheijen c.s motion. in piece No. 148. I have seen that there is a fairly broad majority in favour of this motion, and that seems to me to be very good. What is in this motion seems to me to be at the heart of what we discussed here yesterday, but also today: freedom of the press and freedom of expression are fundamental to a democratic society, and that is a fortiori for a candidate country. Mr Verheijen was right to say that if you are such a candidate, then you must be kept to that. I read this as an incentive to discuss this with the candidate Member over and over again and perhaps to look at the opening of these chapters. Of course, I also see the operative part as supporting standing policy. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u79	I had asked the Minister another question about his itinerary. That question may have slipped his mind. Does he still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u80	Would you mind explaining that for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u81	I did that in my second term, but I'd like to repeat it. Your predecessor as Foreign Minister used to report foreign travel to the Permanent Chambers Committee in advance. This gave us the opportunity to organise a debate or to ask questions or whatever in advance. You don't have to, but the possibility is there. That did not happen in this case. Moreover, we fully support that visit to Turkey, but the question to the Minister was whether he would like to take over that good habit of his predecessor in the future. We do not ask him to take over all the habits of his predecessor, but this one does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u82	I'd be happy to inform the Chamber of the trips I'm making. I'll make a note of that. It may be that I do not announce a trip in exceptional cases in advance, but of course I find a moment to answer for it. So I can't let that advance announcement of travel be a golden rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thank you very much. Then this debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u84	I propose that we vote on the motions next Tuesday.
