ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u1	This evening we are discussing the continuation of the debate which began on 7 April last, when the first term of office was held. The Minister for Security and Justice is now in the process of responding in the first term. I would like to welcome the Minister and his colleague, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your warm words of welcome. The Secretary of State and I thank the members of the various political groups for their input in the first term. I would like to say a brief introductory text, after which I will deal with the following issues: rehabilitation, provision, forgiveness, family, the amounts to be imposed, the financial consequences, the evaluation, the victim's contribution and a number of other aspects. The Secretary of State will answer the questions about the bill for which he is responsible. In total, therefore, I will address eight specific issues, and I will answer a large number of questions from the Chamber. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals, the legislative proposal on the own contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care and the legislative proposal on the own contribution to stay in a judicial establishment. Both schemes are based on the idea that the person who incurs high costs by committing offences should contribute to these costs. In other words, the polluter pays. A number of spokesmen have indicated that this bill would only be aimed at achieving budgetary objectives, but above all there is a principled side to it. The Cabinet considers that it is fundamentally unreasonable that the costs associated with criminal proceedings, victim care and detention should be fully borne by society, whereas those costs are caused by only a limited number of individuals and are the result of a generally conscious choice for committing criminal offences. There are very few people in our society who commit criminal offences without a conscious choice made prior to that. People consciously take the risk and consciously take action to perform their act. As a result, they create enormous costs for society: 2.2 billion for the prison system, 1 billion for the judiciary and about 600 million for the Public Prosecutor's Office. Those who make such a choice seem to think that society, the taxpayer who does not make these choices and who simply complies with the law and the rules, should pay for these costs through tax revenues. For this reason, the Cabinet proposes an own contribution scheme. This makes the choice, on a very limited scale, but on the basis of the principle, to partly charge those costs to the perpetrators. By adopting the bill, we in the Netherlands are not taking a step that is unprecedented in the neighbouring countries. The principle that the perpetrator should contribute to the costs of the offence he committed is already common practice in the countries around us. Professor Tak has described this extensively in his interesting report, which was the basis of the legislative proposals that are being discussed today. Almost all of our neighbouring countries have a form of contribution scheme. England and Wales have recently introduced an additional contribution. A criminal court charge has also been introduced, in addition to the judgment in that case, on the basis of which convicted persons have to pay a registry fee, a fee. These registry duties entered into force in these countries on 13 April last. So the thinking behind this contribution scheme is certainly not something of the past. In a number of our neighbouring countries, which are among the civilised states of law, this principle is widely endorsed and implemented. I am therefore very pleased to see that the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, expressed broad support for this principle within the Chamber during the consultation, during the round table and also in the first term of the Chamber by the individual spokesmen. We have therefore heard a great deal of support for the intention to use some of these revenues for victim care. Maybe I can put one topic to that. The idea behind the own contribution scheme for victim care is not: reduce the amount we spend annually on victim care by that part of our own contribution. On the contrary, an additional amount of victim care will be made available to improve the provision of services to victims, care for victims and support for victims. If, therefore, the legislative proposal cannot count on a broad majority in this Chamber, preferably such a majority that it will also be supported by the First Chamber, then that means that no additional funds for victim care will be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr Schouw has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u4	Is it true that it amounts to 5 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u5	That's a good question. I shall come to that in a moment, if I might just highlight the financial position. I don't have that so "in the top of my head" ready right now. But I thought so. It's $5 or $6 million, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u6	It is rather grand in the introduction: if the groups vote against here and if the First Chamber votes against, they actually vote against a lot more money for victims and therefore vote against victims. That's a bit of the Minister's suggestion. However, we must stand on the ground for a moment. Appreciation of a bill is something other than an appreciation of the resources for victims. I think it's only $5 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u7	If Mr Schouw is right when he says that it is 5 million, knowing him, I think he is right about that, then I would point out to him that the total national contribution to victim care is currently around 21 million and that 5 million extra in relation to that 21 million represents a very structural increase in the amount of money available for victim care. That is why I would not like to speak so late when I hear Mr Schouw speak in a way. I really think that we are making a substantial and structural contribution to victim care and to the total amount we have available for that. Of 21 million, 5 million is a very significant percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u8	I think this is too easy. We have had to wait about two months for this bill to be dealt with in the second term. The Minister and the Secretary of State have had two months to see if they have sufficient support. Now there is a threat in the Chamber: if we do not all support this bill, including the First Chamber, then we do not support the victims. The Minister could also have used some creativity and come up with another proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u9	I do not know why I should have made another proposal, for the simple reason that there was a great deal of support for the principle of the proposal. Furthermore, Mrs Kooiman herself chooses to use the word 'threat'. I'm just telling you what the consequences are. This amount, this contribution to victim care is provided as an additional contribution for victims. Well, if that does not happen in the Lower House and in the Upper House if this bill cannot count on broad support in the Lower House, then there is a risk that the Upper House will come to the conclusion in its own consideration that this bill cannot be supported. I don't see what the threat could be. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u10	Even then, in the course of the budgetary procedure, we can still arrange that money for victim care. That threat doesn't work. The conclusion here is that we are two months away, that the Minister has also heard in the first term that there is not as much support for his proposal as it looks now, and that the Minister and the Secretary of State lacks creativity: we are back to square one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u11	I don't think Mrs. Kooiman read the letters we wrote. We have given a great deal of explanation on a number of structural points and understandable questions from the Chamber. We have also shown that a number of concerns that lived in the Chamber are not based on facts. For example, the total amount that should be contributed is much smaller than some members of the Chamber assumed. Just because we had time for it, we have looked very carefully at it. Then I do not recognize myself in the conclusion that it would be a threat that is not so much a threat and certainly not in the thought that too little flexibility or virtuosity would have been exercised by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u12	I would like to support Mrs Kooiman. We are cutting branches here about a few million which is very difficult to collect and of which only a small part goes to the victims. Everyone has sympathy for the victims and wants to think along with them. However, I read in the annual reports that 136 million were picked last year. That's a huge amount of money, a huge success. Let us look at the possibility of using it for the victims and to cover the costs of persecution and detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u13	That is a repetition of the debate we have often had in the Chamber. I appreciate Mr Oskam's virtuosity on this point, but he also knows that a structural contribution to victim care cannot be covered from an occasional amount received. That is why it will be very complicated. In general, this also encounters objections from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u14	Chairman....
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u15	At this point, you have already interrupted. Actually, I'd like to see if the Minister can continue. I think that's a better plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u16	But it's a legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u17	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u18	It is a matter of principle, because the Minister says that this bill is based on principle: the polluter pays. Three sentences later, he starts talking about money. It can't be both true, I guess. According to the Minister, is the fundamental issue the most important and therefore the money is subordinate or is the money the most important and therefore the fundamental issue subordinate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u19	The point of principle is the starting point. That's the thrust of the bill. In principle, the Cabinet considers that it is reasonable, just as it is considered reasonable in the surrounding countries, that people contribute to the costs they incur for society through their own choices through the use of criminal procedure law, the courts and detention facilities and the costs they incur for the victims. That is the point of principle. Financially speaking, the impact of this bill has been incorporated into the 2015 and 2016 budgets. This is a financial discussion. I would just like to point out that, of course, there is a budgetary problem if the legislative proposal is not adopted, but that, in particular, because of one element, the victim's contribution, an additional amount cannot be made available to the victims because this is not provided for in the budget. Before we entered this side-by-side debate, for which I have a great deal of understanding, I said that the cabinet did not close its ears to the concerns expressed by the various Members of Parliament, in particular about the financial position of the contributions and their re-socialisation. On a number of aspects, I will come back to the answers to the individual questions. The Secretary of State will do the same. I would like to say the following about this. We realise that these legislative proposals affect particular target groups and that the financial resources of part of this target group are limited. In the questions of the various spokesmen, the Secretary of State and I have seen a letter sent to the Chamber to give more and more complete insight into the target group and the amount of money it might owe. The figures in the letter show that for the vast majority of the target group, the maximum contribution foreseen in these legislative proposals will not be considered. As the figures show, only 2% of the total target population pays the maximum contribution for both criminal proceedings and residence. The largest group, about 80%, pays, taking both schemes into account, in total less than €3,000. At the same time, we do not deny that a limited contribution can also have a significant impact on the person liable for contributions. Several measures have been taken to prevent the contribution from leading to financial problems in such a way as to create other problems. I will not list all these facilities now. They will be discussed when the questions are answered. However, I would like to stress that a collection strategy has been chosen which takes into account the financial position of the contributor and which includes income and capital checks at different times and will always take into account the amount to be released per month. As a result, the person concerned can always have his basic income, as is also customary for the purpose of the attachment-free base. I would also like to mention in particular the new power of remission in the letters of amendment that have been submitted. Unlike Mrs Kooiman's suggestion, they have now been submitted. A number of changes have been made to this point. My predecessor has thus responded to the wishes and concerns of the Chamber. The purpose of the waiver is to prevent debt from continuing to affect contributors who are unable to pay for a lifetime. The Secretary of State and I have a great deal of sympathy for that. If people really cannot pay and it is not unwilling, there is no point in forcing them to do so. That is simply taken into account. At the same time, it should continue to be the principle that contributors meet the contributions as far as possible. That may also be in the longer term, if they have found a job at some point and are therefore able to meet that contribution. Therefore, in summary, the waiver can only be granted if the person liable for the contribution has paid in accordance with its own funds in the previous five years. I believe that the present legislative proposals have struck a good balance between the principle that those convicted must pay a contribution to the costs incurred by them, and the importance of avoiding any problems in the collection process which jeopardises resocialisation. Because if we did, we'd throw away the baby with the bathwater. I fully agree with the Members who made that comment. If resocialisation is at risk, we are not doing society any favors either. I would now like to answer the questions that have been put. A number of questions have already been answered by the Secretary of State and the undersigned in the aforementioned letter. For the sake of clarity, I will not repeat all these answers. The Secretary of State and I will answer the questions by subject. The Secretary of State will answer the questions about the contribution for the stay and the prisoner. He will also address questions about the position and role of the municipalities. I will answer the questions about the contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care and the questions that concern both legislative proposals. First of all, I should like to address the issue of resocialisation and the financial situation. I will also address the family, the amounts to be imposed and the financial consequences of the victim's contribution. Finally, I will deal with a number of other questions which are not covered by these issues. So I will begin with the resocialisation and the financial situation. This response is based on both schemes. All spokesmen have called for attention to be paid to the effects of these schemes on resocialisation. As announced, the Secretary of State will address the specific questions concerning detainees. I shall confine myself here to the more general question that has been asked on this subject, namely the question of the relationship between debt and resocialisation and recidivism. Questions have been raised by Mr Schouw van D66, Mr Segers of the Christian Union, Mrs Kooiman of the SP and Mr Oskam of the CDA. First of all, I would like to clarify that we do not want and can deny that there could be a relationship between debt-taking and recidivism. However, it is important to see what exactly that relationship is. Because the fact that there is a relationship between debt and recidivism does not necessarily mean that there is a direct causal link. It doesn't mean that a debt always leads to recidivism or vice versa. Then it is relevant that a direct causal link has never been established scientifically or otherwise. That is also what Jungmann and others in the report entitled Prisoner in debt, which I know is known to the Chamber. However, it is generally based on an indirect relationship. The report Captured in debt describes how debtmaking can affect other habitats, such as income, of course, I would say living and the family. Precisely in order to avoid these negative effects in these areas, these legislative proposals have included provisions such as the possibility of making payment arrangements, deferment of payment, the amount to be released monthly, income and capital checks and cancellation options. Anything to ensure that this causal link will not be addressed either. The purpose of these services is therefore to prevent other social problems and thus the danger of resocialisation. That is what I am saying to Mrs Rebel, who asked how we would prevent such effects. Well, in this way. I have already indicated in my introductory speech that the debate is being put in a different light because for the vast majority of the target groups of these legislative proposals the maximum contribution is not at issue. It was a thought that lived here that anyone should pay that maximum contribution. That is not the case. This is particularly true of the questions put by Mr Schouw, Mr Segers, Mr Kooiman, Mr Oskam, Mr Rebel and Mr Van der Staaij. It...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr Schouw has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u21	The times of Opstelten are resurrected, Chairman. Back then, it was always hard to get in the middle. See the agreement here. I know that Mr Van der Steur is well aware of my contribution to this study, and I am sure he will accept it as a thesis. Then it's about the point of causality between debt and recidivism. Prisoned in debt is a student's thesis. The minister's acting like it's a scientific investigation. Does the Minister agree with me that this is a thesis? A thesis is something other than scientific research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u22	I am concerned about the question raised by it, and that is whether it is true that we should be concerned about resocialisation when we adopt this bill. That is a question that you can also answer independently of the research - Mr Schouw calls it a thesis. The simple reason for this is that everyone knows from experience that there are risks. That's what I said. That is why we have ensured that these risks are kept to the minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u23	In preparing for our debate in April, I was annoyed that there is no scientific research that says that there is no causality between debts and relapses or that there would be only a weak causality. Apparently, from the top hat, the thesis Prisoned in debt of the Utrecht University of Applied Sciences, in which a few pages are devoted to this matter. However, all the other experts say that having debt creates a prominent risk for recidivism. Does the Minister agree with me that debt-taking is a prominent risk for recidivism?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u24	I am not discussing Mrs Jungmann's report. Mrs Jungmann was also invited by the Chamber to the round table on this subject. If it was a student's thesis, the question arises as to why that happened. Some members of the Chamber were probably of the opinion that Mrs Jungmann is a renowned scientist, which I believe is also the case. Let us not have that discussion here. No evidence has been provided that debts do not contribute to recurrence. That is exactly what I have just said. The other way around, that's the same thing. Nor is it the case that someone who is debt-free never repeats. At the same time, having debts doesn't mean you're always recidivizing. That is precisely why such a contribution scheme exists in the neighbouring countries. That money is simply collected there and contributes to covering the costs. This system was introduced a long time ago and did not come to the conclusion that it would be a major problem for the recurrence. Otherwise, of course, that would never have happened. The other questions on social rehabilitation relate mainly to prisoners and will be answered by the State Secretary. Let me now turn to the general questions on remission and provision. Mrs Helder would like to explain the proposed Article 592e (1) (c) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Article 7c (1) (c) of the Penitentiary Principles Act. It states that the Minister may waive recovery or partial recovery if the contributor has not made any payments for five years and it is not likely that he will make them at any time. Mrs Helder's question was whether this could mean that a contribution of €0 would be charged in this situation. The CAK will impose the contribution in accordance with the applicable rules. The imposition of a contribution of €0 or of a contribution of zero in advance is not at issue. If it turns out that someone does not have sufficient financial resources to pay the contribution at once, the CAK will consider how much someone can pay. The CAK shall do so on the basis of the amount to be released. I shall come back to that term in response to another question from Mrs Helder. In some cases it may appear that a person's income does not exceed the amount to be released. He will not be able to pay anything, and will then be granted a deferment of payment. Subsequently, the CAK will periodically monitor whether the payment potential has changed. If this payment potential does not improve for five years, in other words if someone simply has no money for five years and it is not likely that this will change in the future, the contribution can be cancelled. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that this new power of remission also encourages as much payment as possible. If someone does not always contribute what he can contribute, then there will be no remission. So there's an incentive to pay. Mrs Helder has asked what is meant by the term 'to be released'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u25	Before you do that, I give the floor to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u26	I can replace my colleague Van der Staaij. He quoted in his speech from the Acts of 10 March 1896, pointing out the reason why the system at that time was abolished. The cost story caused "an incredibly extensive and unpleasant administration." The Minister is now making a statement on how carefully all this is being followed. Then I think: the cost story causes an incredibly extensive and unpleasant administration. You can take the view that it is necessary in principle, but there is really nothing left of the benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u27	No. Costs have been taken into account in the budgetary results, i.e. around EUR 60 million in total. The budgeted amount for these legislative proposals has thus been deducted from the costs. These costs are a fraction of the total revenue. As we explained in the letter to the Chamber, the proceeds are related to the likelihood that they will also be collected. So it is not based on the number of inmates twice the maximum amount, but on the fact that a lot of people will not pay or very little, that other people will contribute according to their assets and that very few will have to pay the full amount. The amount drawn is therefore the net amount remaining if the costs are met. It is therefore an acceptable position and an acceptable proposal for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u28	If I see correctly, it was the rate of collection of 14. So the overhead is incredibly much higher, 80% or so. Is this the most logical business proposal to express the principle of cost story? That's a pretty fundamental question. I think it's good to take that question back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u29	I think it's okay if we take a look at the numbers first. Moreover, the rate of collection of 14 refers to the proposal for which the State Secretary is responsible. This concerns the contribution of inmates. It means that 80% do not have to pay because it has no income and that 14% ensure that the total intended yield of the scheme is EUR 7 million. That's what the letter says. Moreover, it is independent of the contribution scheme costs criminal proceedings and the victim care contribution. This situation is quite different because the income position of simply convicted non-convicts is, in general, structurally different from that of inmates. That 14% refers only to the inmates, with a total revenue of 7 million. This means that 53 million will be collected by the other principle, namely the contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings and to victim care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u30	I just want to see if I still understand the principal. I think the proceeds were 65 million clean on the hook. Is that right? And what are the total costs? So that's two numbers. It's useful if we can compare them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u31	Let me say first of all that the total revenue is 60 million: 7 million from the Secretary of State's bill and 53 million from the bill I made. That is the net amount without the costs, because of course they have been deducted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u32	In April it was 65 million; it is good that it is now 60 million. But then I still haven't received an answer to the question of costs. Because it is important that the co-legislator gets a little insight into the costs, because they think that the costs are much higher than net revenues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u33	I beg your pardon? That the costs are higher than the net revenues?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u34	Maybe they're twice as high.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u35	No, that's not the case. There are, of course, those costs. It has to be paid for; that makes sense. But this is just a percentage of the total amount. Net comes out 60 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr Schouw would like to know the gross sum. What are gross revenues and gross costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u37	I'll find out, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u38	Will you then return to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u39	I will come back to that in the second term at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u40	Please continue with your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u41	Maybe I already know. No, I'll look it up nicely in a minute. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u42	I think you'd better come back to it if you're sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u43	Excellent. I do. I was in the process of answering Mrs Helder's question about the amount to be released. This means the minimum amount left by the sentenced person per month in order to be able to provide for his maintenance. It is an amount that creditors are not allowed to arrive at, even in the case of debts arising from both legal arrangements. The amount to be released will be calculated according to the so-called Recofa method, the calculation method developed by a national working group of judges-supervisors in bankruptcy. The calculation method is adjusted periodically to the modified standards. The aim of the method is that all debt relief workers calculate the amount to be released in the same way. The amount relates to the herd-free foot plus a number of additions. To this end, we must look at the financial situation, the family situation, including children, and I say this with emphasis towards the Christian Union and the SGP: the costs of housing, the costs of care and the costs of existing debts. In doing so, I immediately answered Mrs Kooiman's question as to what exactly the amount to be released looks like and whether existing debts are being taken into account. So the answer to that is yes. Mrs Kooiman and Mr Segers have asked what needs to be done before a special arrangement is introduced or the claim is waived. The standard payment scheme of six monthly instalments is in principle offered to each contributor. It may make use of that offer and no further criteria shall apply. An individual payment arrangement or deferment of payment must be requested. In that case, the CAK will determine the amount to be released on the basis of the income and capital test. The amount to be released shall determine what the person liable for contributions can pay per month. On this basis, a payment arrangement is concluded or deferred. There are two possibilities for remission. The first is that the debt situation is so problematic that the person concerned will participate in a friendly debt restructuring process. If the person concerned participates successfully, the remaining contribution may be cancelled at the end. The second is that the person liable for contributions has paid in terms of capital for five years. In that case, the remaining contribution may be cancelled at the end of that period. Mr Oskam asked whether the administrative judge could also dismiss the contribution. No, the administrative judge can't apply the waiver. However, the CAK's decision not to cancel a contribution may be submitted to the administrative judge. So that's a kicked-out situation. The administrative judge shall assess, on the basis of the criteria laid down in the law for remission, whether the CAK could have reached the negative decision. Since the contributions are an administrative charge, this is the appropriate way to have such decisions assessed by the Administrative Court. Mrs Rebel asked in how many cases there will be remission. To what extent has the new cancellation option already taken into account a possible disappointing overall return? In advance, there is no precise indication of how often there will be remission. The announced annual monitor will have to provide more insight into this. The collection rates applied have already taken into account the fact that some of the convicted persons will not be able to pay. The group eligible for remission is part of that. This has thus already been taken into account in the total yield.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u44	When I listen to the minister, he doesn't know how much it's gonna yield, because it's not yet known how many prisoners are eligible for remission, and he takes the risk that he will work people into debt, making the Netherlands more unsafe because of repeated increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u45	I do not agree with Mrs Kooiman's conclusions. On the basis of a careful assessment of the legislative proposals and the impact analysis, we have established that we need to take account of modest collection rates. If you take those costs into account, we can take into account about 60 million in revenue. So we know it very precisely. We also know very well that a large proportion of the detainees for this bill and a large proportion of the convicted for the other bill........................................................................................................................................................................................... But that doesn't change the premise that we think it should be if they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u46	I understand that this minister chooses to make the Netherlands more unsafe. The choice is known. But this minister does not explain how he got this percentage of forgiveness, because he does not know that. This minister also says in response to questions from D66: we do not really know how much red tape is involved. In addition, the parole hearing with me has said: our costs have not even been calculated yet. Then I can only conclude that this bill costs far more than it brings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u47	No, Mr. Chairman. If Mrs Kooiman had had the opportunity to take a look... Let me rephrase: may I invite Mrs Kooiman to look at page 6 of the letter we sent to the Chamber? The implementation costs will be explained at the bottom of that page. I have looked it up and I can therefore quote from the letter: "The CAK has indicated that its implementation costs in this state of affairs are estimated to amount to around EUR 5.3 million annually; JustID estimates its implementation costs at around EUR 0.6 million. This amounts to implementation costs of EUR 5.9 million" Thus, 5.9 million of implementation costs have been taken into account for a total revenue of EUR 60 million. That is an answer to Mr Schouw's question. So the answer was in the letter we sent to the Chamber. Mrs Kooiman then asks how I get the total amount of what will be collected. This is based on a calculation method and a collection process that has proven itself in the past. The collection is carried out by the Central Administration Office, where there is a lot of experience in doing income and capital tests. These possibilities are therefore embedded in the procedure. Because we know that there will be people who cannot pay, this has been taken into account in the collection rates. They are, therefore, Mr Bishop pointed out that, among other things, the bill from the Secretary of State is quite low, because we know and realize that it is a difficult target group and because we do not want people to get deeper into the problems caused by the debts arising from these arrangements. Low percentages have therefore been taken into account. The answer to Mrs Kooiman's question whether the Netherlands is becoming more unsafe by this proposal is, of course, no, otherwise I would not be here to defend these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u48	The Minister now hears and hears in the first term of the Chamber that there are concerns here about the possible effects on the recidivism. I'm gonna let you know what's going on with someone in detention. His debts are rising and after his detention a check is made to see if he can pay those debts. If not, there may be a municipal debt relief pathway. Is that what I'm doing? Is that what I'm doing? Someone gets out and if it turns out he's made extra debts he can't pay, he'll end up in debt relief. Don't you take the huge risk that the chance of recurrence will increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u49	That could be, but we have to agree that debt-taking automatically leads to the commission of new offences. And that is by no means the case. There are people who have relapsed without ever having had a debt and who have ample opportunity to pay the maximum contribution for both schemes whistling and often cash. At the same time, there are people who are deeply in financial difficulties, for example because they have addiction problems. We are aware of this, and that is why the legislative proposals are handled very carefully. There is no link between these two, because not everyone in the Netherlands who is in debt is a criminal and it is not the case that all criminals are in debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u50	Criminals who can pay whistle-blowingly must be dealt with by means of the pick-up legislation and not by means of this regulation. It really serves a different purpose. Of course there is a relationship, but that's not a one-on-one relationship. It is not true that debt leads to criminal behavior. Such a deterministic reasoning is misplaced. Nevertheless, there is a relationship, which is reflected in Mr Rebel's amendment, for example. She rightly writes there: there is just concern about that relationship. There is no one-to-one relationship, but there is a relationship. Well, then it's a little worrying that you're gonna make a lot of debts first, and that the test and the help won't come until after?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u51	Then the question is: what is the alternative? Should we want a system of contributions which in advance excludes everything, while perhaps something is still possible afterwards? We know that; it has also been exchanged in the first period of the debate. People who have been convicted of criminal offences don't all get jail time. Some of them just return to their jobs. Others get community service. Others have to pay compensation. For them, the whole problem of debt does not arise. For the people who are in trouble, for the problem category, there is, that we agree on, you have to be very careful. You have to offer opportunities and space to deal with them responsibly. However, you will do tests, even over time. Because if someone does have an income over time, it is certainly reasonable for him to contribute. But in the cases Mr Segers points out, the people who, due to all kinds of circumstances, have multi-morbidity, addiction problems, we all know the examples that are never able to meet the income, the Secretary of State and I think it is reasonable that there is no payment yet. However, we are not going to release this in advance, because we do not know what the consequences are. Someone might say after that: the problems are over and I'm going back to work. Well, then it's certainly reasonable for that person to contribute. That's what other people do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u52	The really large debts will be built up with a considerable detention period. The Minister has just explained that a very large proportion of the people we are talking about will get a relatively small debt because of their own contribution. Where detention is concerned, it might also be the beginning of the solution. That solution could be to use in detention the possibilities of looking ahead to the origin of debts, possibly even before detention, and to think about the accumulated additional debts due to their own contributions. Is it an idea that this can be dealt with specifically during the detention period? We already know, on the basis of the detention period, something about the debt to be built up through our own contributions. I'm also looking at the Secretary of State. Perhaps he will be able to deal with this later, because this is more his subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u53	The Secretary of State will be happy to include this question in his term and provide Mrs Rebel with an answer. In reply to Mr Segers' question, I repeat that there are two possibilities for remission. Firstly, it may be that someone has such a problematic debt position that he immediately, from the outset, already participates in a debt restructuring process. If he participates successfully, the remaining contribution may be cancelled at the end. The second possibility is that the person liable for contributions has paid in terms of capital for a period of five years. That can also be very little and maybe even almost nothing. In that case, the remaining contribution can also be cancelled at the end of that period, because someone has really shown that he has done his best to meet the contribution. Mrs Rebel then asked how many of these cases would be absolved. Has the new option of renouncing already been taken into account in the overall yield, she further asked. As I said earlier, it is not clear in advance how that will work. However, the collection rates applied have already taken account of the fact that some of the convicted persons will certainly not pay; that may be clear. The group eligible for remission shall form part of it. This has therefore been taken into account. Within the part that does not pay or does not pay in full, no further distinction can be made in numbers according to the reason why no payment is made or why no payment is made in full. It should be noted, however, that the recovery rate is based on full payments. Partial payments have not been taken into account. Since a condition for remission is that it is paid according to assets in the five previous years, it is in the interest of the paying agent to repay what he can repay, and then to be eligible for such remission. I come to the questions raised by Mr Segers, Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Rebel on the position of the family. We have answered these questions extensively in the letter we sent to the Chamber. A method is used to take account of the family situation and the costs that the family should logically incur. During the first term, a number of members of the Chamber said that the result of this arrangement could be that families would be disturbed or would be in trouble by the fact that one of the two householders would have to contribute to this by criminal offences. It goes without saying that it is also undesirable for the cabinet that this should be the case. The position of the family is taken into account in the so-called Recofa method, which is used to calculate the amount to be released. This will prevent families from falling below the minimum standard of living. The Implementing Decision lays down that this will take place in this way. Mr Segers asked whether the legislative proposal had any effect on the employment of family members on welfare benefits. The answer to this question is no. The contribution schemes do not affect the extent to which a family member can avail himself of a benefit. After all, this bill does not make any changes to the welfare legislation. Mrs Kooiman asked how the rulers felt that a partner, who was married in a community of goods, should contribute to a debt. I would suggest that this regulation is in line with current legislation and regulations. It is undesirable not to take the goods from the community. If we were to do so, this could in practice lead to the fact that when someone is married in a community of goods and all goods fall within the community, they cannot be collected at all. This can't be the intention. Moreover, it could be a way to deliberately withdraw from collection, while there are a lot of assets on which story is possible. We do take account of the family situation corresponding to that Recofa method. Then I come to topic four: the amounts to be imposed. Mr Schouw...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u54	I have one more point about the family. The family shall be taken into account in accordance with the Recofa method. Last Friday I was at a meeting of Exodus, where children of inmate parents spoke openly and presented a wish list. To what extent is it possible to check with the care coordinator of the municipality, who should be concerned about the family, the prisoner and the children, whether these minimum possibilities of existence take sufficient account of the social isolation of a child? It is a request to the Minister and the Secretary of State to discuss this with the VNG. What is possible in any case not to further increase the social isolation, regardless of the taboo surrounding a detainee parent, also on the basis of low income, for the children? They must not be punished for their parents' actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mrs Rebel raises an understandable question, which relates in particular to children of inmate parents. I have already said in the introduction that the Secretary of State will speak about the municipalities. He will take this point into account in the reply. I had arrived at the amounts to be imposed. Mr Schouw asked what would happen if the costs of criminal proceedings and prison sentences increased. Will this then be passed on? It should be made clear that the amounts used for the contribution to criminal proceedings and the contribution to the stay in the judicial establishment relate only to part of the actual costs. It has been deliberately chosen not to make a direct link with the actual costs to be incurred. Such a link would mean that we would have to recover EUR 2.2 billion from prisoners who are eligible, while the intention is to collect only EUR 7 million net from them. The forwards will not be automatically adjusted if the costs would increase. Mrs Helder asked why the contribution for convicted persons who were not subject to punishment or measure is nil. Mrs Helder points out a special situation here. The court has, in particular circumstances, had reason to waive the sentence of sentence, but to declare it guilty. In a way, the convict gets a judge's pardon. In the opinion of the Cabinet, this particular circumstance is sufficient to set the contribution to be paid at zero, because in such cases there is very often doubt as to the reasonableness to pay a contribution to the costs of the proceedings. Another question from Mrs Helder, but also from Mr Segers and Mr Oskam, is why there is no demand for a higher contribution from wealthy criminals. Why isn't it an income-dependent or revenue-dependent contribution? I don't know how I should say it. The legislative proposals are based on lump sums. If we were to distinguish between wealthy and disabled criminals, the amount to be imposed on the convicted person should always be determined on a case-by-case basis by the judge or by another authority. This will make the implementation much more complicated and will undoubtedly entail additional costs. The risk would then arise, as Mr Schouw pointed out, that costs would increase accordingly. In addition, circumstances can change. In view of the care that the cabinet believes should apply, you should look again and again at the income position in the collection process. That would mean that you have to do it twice: once when imposing the contribution by the judge and once along the path. Of course, I agree with the Members who have asked this question that wealthy criminals need to be dealt with. For this we have other means, as mentioned by Mr Oskam, namely withdrawal and picking them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u56	I think it's a bit like double standards. The Minister says it entails additional costs to figure it all out and assess it, but doesn't that apply to the whole system? It's unclear what's coming in. If people can't pay, they can apply for remission. Arrangements can be made: they pay a little bit for five years and then they have shown good will and can be forgiven. The position of the directors is: the polluter pays. That's the point. It is a choice of principle, but I do not think that much else is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u57	I do not entirely agree with Mr Oskam. It is precisely because of the care which your Chamber has always asked for in the first period of time for understandable reasons, because we are talking about a very difficult target group, Mr President, that we have chosen to submit to you a very careful but fundamental regulation. We explained them in more detail in the letter we sent to your Chamber. We ensure that we obtain the amount that is reasonable to receive with a security-bound probably at reasonable execution costs, without obliging ourselves to incur additional costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u58	I hear the Minister say that in each case the judge must determine the contribution to be charged separately. Could you do it like the Legal Aid Act? Amounts have been fixed at AMvB, in the Decision's own contribution to legal aid. It could also be connected, so that there are certain disks? If you are in there, you charge x and you are up there, then amount y. It's possible in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u59	Strictly speaking, this could be done, but that power test still has to be applied twice, namely at the imposition itself and at the collection. That means twice the cost. It will then double that amount of 6 million and will have to pay higher percentages and higher amounts. I don't know if it's going to double, but let's say it would. We have opted for lump sums. Next, we will see if it is reasonable, and many Members of the Chamber have asked for it, and it is feasible for people to pay those amounts without causing them any serious problems themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u60	Germany has already been mentioned a few times. The proposal is to impose this amount in the Netherlands by means of a kind of administrative measure. In Germany, it's up to the judge. Why has the Minister not considered the entire German model?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u61	In our opinion, the German model also has quite a number of disadvantages. We believe that it is more careful not to make the imposition, but rather to make the collection decisive, precisely for the reasons put forward by Mr Schouw, Mrs Kooiman, Mrs Rebel, the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP. The question is: how do we prevent the people who are already struggling from getting into more trouble because of the measure? You do that by not looking in front of the judge, but right at the back of the inning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u62	A judge imposes a sentence, so many days in prison, but can also impose a fine: you have to pay this. In the cabinet's proposal there is also an administrative measure besides the judge: you also have to pay x for the fact that you are sitting. The risk which my group sees and has touched in the first period is that the judge will take account of that administrative measure and may therefore reduce the level of punishment, because double penalties will be imposed. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. The German model offers the solution and could also be a hand-out to some of the political groups. Why didn't the Cabinet consider that? In the magic letter, which has already been mentioned ten times, I did not read a letter about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u63	That is also because we have looked very closely at the German system. If Mr Schouw is enthusiastic about this, I would like to talk to him about it, because it is a much stricter and much more intense system than we are proposing. For the sake of understanding the other Members, I would point out that in Germany, not a lump sum is passed on, but the actual costs of proceedings, depending on the number of transactions. That amount amounts to thousands of euros. In addition, there are many more parties involved in criminal proceedings than in the Netherlands. The victim, for example, has an independent position as a nebenklager. The criminal court has the role there to determine which party has to bear what costs. That system is alien to the Dutch system. We are based on lump sums, because it is an administrative charge and we do not allow the courts to impose administrative charges in our legal system. That's a choice. You can make them different, but I don't see any advantage for the German system. In my opinion, however, many of the arguments I have heard from the Court in the first place are more concerned with the German system than with the system we are proposing, because the vulnerability is precisely in the collection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u64	D66 raises an interesting point, namely to what extent the judge will soon take on board the fact that a prisoner will have to pay his own contribution. During the hearing, we spoke with representatives of the Council in the field of justice, and they believe that judges will actually take this into account and may therefore be punished less. What is the Minister's response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u65	It could be. That's up to the judge, because that's the system we agreed on. I understand that's what they say, because it's a thought that's alive now. In practice, however, it will become clear, even in the calculation we use, that only a very limited number of people can and will actually contribute. Then it is unreasonable for an overwhelming majority to take account of a situation that will not arise and to give it a lower sentence. In my opinion, if they are inclined to do so, the judges will return to this matter fairly quickly. However, I am not in charge of this. It's the judge's freedom in consultation with the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u66	Now the Minister has a glass ball other than the Council's representative for the hearing, who says that the judges actually think they are going to punish lower. Then this law will pass its purpose, won't it? Part of the prison sentence is, of course, also retaliation. That's what we decided with each other. Then it's weird, isn't it, that we don't put people in detention that they might be forced to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mrs Kooiman's suggestion is that someone has committed a serious crime but would avoid jail time, because he has to pay €300 or €400 for his own contribution. That is about the average we have said in the famous letter that we will assume. Of course, that doesn't happen. Let us say first of all that paying some hundreds of euros will not affect people who are going to get long prison sentences. So I don't see that risk, but I can't rule it out. Mrs. Kooiman is right about that. In the system we have, in which it is left to the judge to determine the level of punishment, it could have an influence. However, I do not see it as a major risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mrs Kooiman feels that she has been miscited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u69	I am not talking about a penalty, for example, with a fine of €100. Now the Minister draws my suggestion into the absurd and I do not think that that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u70	No, then perhaps Mrs. Kooiman didn't fully understand me. I would just like to point out that we have shown in the letter to the Chamber that the vast majority of the people who will be involved in this scheme are up to a maximum of a few hundred euros. In my opinion, that will not be a reason for the criminal justice officer to give a person..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For a few hundred euros, there is no judge in the Netherlands who doesn't give anyone jail time, when he should. That is what Mrs Kooiman has literally said, and I have responded to it. Mrs Helder has asked: can it all be better, in the sense that several cumulatively charged facts are taken into account? In that case, as she explained, the costs of detection and prosecution are also much higher. Wouldn't it be reasonable to charge a much higher amount? Mrs. Helder is right. In the case of cumulative charges, higher costs may be incurred by the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other authorities, but this is not necessarily always the case. Think of cases where suspects have committed multiple offences at the same time and only one investigation has taken place, or cases which are added ad informantum and therefore have not been covered. Furthermore, the costs of legal proceedings are only incurred once. There is therefore no duplication of costs. But Mrs Helder may have noticed by now, on the basis of the first term of the Chamber and this exchange of views with me, that there are serious concerns about this payment arrangement, even though we have shown that it is not that bad. So if I want to have the broadest possible support for this bill, then I should not accept Mrs Helder's suggestion, even if in some cases there would be a reasonable basis for doing so, because perhaps two or three complete investigations have indeed been carried out. But that would once again have the effect of differentiation. This would lead to higher costs, without there being any chance of them being collected. Mrs Helder also asked why parents of young people do not have to contribute to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care. Parental contributions have not been chosen because there is no basis in our legal system for direct contact with parents. The financial liability of parents for their minor child cannot be invoked simply because, under civil law, they are not in all cases financially responsible for the damage caused to their child. A system which will always have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis as to whether parents can be contacted and where this should be done would result in complex implementation and associated high costs. Also in view of the effects that the debt could have on young people, the cabinet has not chosen to go that way. The same applies, in reply to Mrs Helder, to the position of adolescents. Please note that to the extent that adolescents are tried in accordance with juvenile criminal law, they should be considered young people. That is how they are in favour of the regulation. Then they won't have to pay. If they are tried under adult criminal law, which is a choice that the Public Prosecutor and the judge can make because of the seriousness of the crime, they will be eligible for this scheme. Mrs Kooiman has asked whether the contribution to the criminal proceedings could hinder a suspect from summoning a witness or expert. The answer to that is no. If a suspect summons a witness or expert, he shall do so on behalf of his lawyer or a lawyer, in general. He may point out that there is no relationship between the number of procedural proceedings and the level of the lump sums. There is therefore no obstacle to the detention of hearings, pleas, statements of witness or experts. A person shall have and retain the right to make his full defence with the consent of the judicial authorities. It shall remain the same, irrespective of the number of procedural acts taking place. We wanted to prevent a suspect from coming to such a conclusion and saying: 'Hey, wait a minute; I am not going to make my full defence; I am not going to fully defend myself, because, oh dear, perhaps I should contribute more.' That would be unacceptable, because the cabinet also believes that people who are prosecuted should be entitled to full legal assistance and be able to defend themselves fully. Mr Oskam has asked: is it not strange that a convicted person should contribute to illegal means of investigation? A fixed and lump sum has also been chosen for the contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care. It has therefore been deliberately chosen not to establish a relationship with the costs actually incurred in an individual criminal case. Therefore, if there was an illegal means of detection, it would have no effect on the contribution to be paid. By the way, that contribution is not cost-effective. The judiciary alone costs about a billion, a little less. The total revenue from the scheme for the contribution to the costs of proceedings and victim care is 53 million. It is understood that this does not cover illegal means of detection, so I do not see the problem outlined by Mr Oskam. I come to the financial consequences. I have already said a lot about this. Mr Schouw asked what the costs are. The answer is 5.9 million. That is also well mentioned on page 6 of the letter we sent to the Chamber. Mr Oskam asked what the consequences would be for justice. Is that where the extra costs are recovered? Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the cost of implementation was real. I have also had an exchange of views with Mr Schouw on this subject. The implementation costs have been calculated on the basis of the experience gained by the CAK in this respect. The additional costs for new provisions have been included in the scheme as remission powers. The costs shall be financed from the proceeds of the own contribution schemes. This leads to the proceeds I have outlined. The case-law expects €300,000 in costs for the case-law. That estimate is based on the assumption that approximately 73% of contributors will be reported with or without a warrant. The assumption of 73% is not only based on the figures on the debt position of inmates, but also on the assumption that there is no payment in all cases where people are in debt. The latter, of course, is not a logical assumption. In general, people with a limited debt can still pay off part of the debt by means of a payment arrangement. There are a number of points in the caselaw that have been raised in relation to risks. The collection strategy aims to minimise the use of means of recovery. That makes sense, because we don't want to make it worse than it is. The CAK assumes in the execution test that less than 1% of the cases will raise objections, of which 5.5% could lead to an appeal to the Administrative Court. Should the number of cases increase, whether temporarily or not, then these matters will automatically be financed in accordance with the rules of the funding system, I can say to Mr Oskam. The ordinary basic scheme therefore also applies in this particular case. Implementation costs are estimated at 6 million. That is considered reasonable and realistic. Mr Schouw asked in his speech at first reading that the recovery process is not too complicated and bureaucratic. I have already said something about this in my reply to other questions. An important point in the design of the collection process was precisely to keep the collection as simple and insightful as possible, while at the same time there must be room for customization. Many members have asked for this customization. None of us want people to get into more serious trouble as a result of the payment obligation. I've already talked about that in detail. Mr Schouw also asked whether there were too many exceptions to the main rule. I think that if it were the other way around, Mr Schouw would ask why there are no exceptions to the main rule. I think it is reasonable that there are exceptions to the main rule. The starting point is and will remain that in principle everyone must pay, but that it is reasonable that the waiver option can be used if someone cannot pay, because his financial position does not allow it, or if someone does his best to pay, but cannot immediately pay the total amount. The question is how certain it is that the total amount will be collected. That has already been discussed. The same applies to the question of the rate of collection. It is, of course, a question of estimates. There is no other way, because it is a new arrangement. There's no experience with it. However, one thing is certain: based on the experiences of the Central Administration Office and the CJIB, among others, the percentages are estimated as reasonable. The assumptions used to determine the percentages are based on something. This is reflected in the letter we sent to the Chamber. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the collection rate calculated for the own contribution of criminal proceedings and victim care. That percentage is much higher than the collection rate of the own contribution to stay in detention. Mr Van der Staaij wonders whether perhaps more people in the first group have an income. In any case, there are two clearly different target groups. As our letter shows, the group of convicted persons who have to pay for the contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care is only 28% of prisoners. The majority will therefore not be sentenced to prison. The vast majority of them are therefore not subject to unconditional prison sentences and therefore generally have their own income from work or benefit, from which that contribution can ultimately be paid. Mr Schouw and Mr Oskam asked how we think it can be paid. I've already answered that question. Mr Oskam asked a question about the start-up losses. Of course, there will be run-off losses. The contributions will only be collected some time after their introduction. The impact analysis shows that a start-up loss of 28 million can be expected in the first year of implementation. In the second and third years following its introduction, the losses were 5 million and 1 million respectively. It is not right to say that this would result in a loss of the legislative proposals in the first few years. We assume that the remaining part of the savings made in those years will simply be realised. The above-mentioned start-up losses are already covered by the Spring Decision in 2014 on a multiannual basis within the total budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. So they are already in the budget. Mr Oskam has asked the same question about the contribution scheme as Mrs Helder, which is about the case where there is no conviction. Mr Oskam asked whether the implementation costs should be borne by the implementation organisations themselves. As I said, they are already covered. Therefore, the implementing organisations are not responsible for this. Mrs Rebel asked: does the personalised collection strategy increase the time limit for the collection of sums? She asked what consequences that would have for the budget. The effect of the payment scheme is to ensure that recovery is spread over several instalments. So it has an effect on the rhythm of the inning but not on the final net result. The assumption is that it may even have a slightly positive effect on the net amounts to be recovered, because by offering a more flexible way of payment, persons with a more limited financial position can still pay partly. So the fact that it's spread out means that more is expected to be paid. Mrs Rebel has asked: is there a good monitoring system and can an early evaluation be carried out? In the questions put by Mrs Rebel and other Members, we have seen reason to submit a letter of amendment containing an evaluation clause and to undertake an annual monitor. We've heard members have concerns and would like to keep the finger on the wrist. We have listened carefully to this and also believe that monitoring should take place. That's what's gonna happen. We also described this in the letter in which it was explicitly promised. I come to my last two topics. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the victim contribution. The EUR 5 million that goes to victim care is a strengthening of the position of victims and thus also the priority of this cabinet. We want to further improve the service to victims. With this expected structural additional 5 million, we can give this service a strong boost. I therefore consider an additional contribution of 5 million per year to be appropriate in the light of the austerity statement made by the Ministry of Security and Justice. As I said at the very beginning, this is in addition to the amount already spent on victim care every year. Mrs Kooiman asked whether the contribution to victim care could be collected first and only then the contribution to criminal proceedings and detention. The contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care shall be levied in the form of a joint payment. So there's no separation between those two. Part of the proceeds are for the benefit of victim care. Therefore, the claim that the contribution to victim care is by definition only collected last is not correct; it is done at the same time. The contribution for residence is regulated in another legislative proposal and also has its own collection procedure. Those two are separated, though. The collection process starts later, because the contribution to stay will of course not be received until the end of the detention. This also means that income is properly regulated and properly distributed between victim care and litigation costs. Mr Van der Staaij asked for or reduced revenue from the contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care caused a disadvantage to the contribution to victims. That is a fair question from Mr Van der Staaij. The contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care shall be charged on the basis of a joint payment. The net income realised shall then be allocated in proportion to both measures. The percentage shall be included in a ministerial arrangement. We are thinking of 8.6% for victim care, with which the estimated net income will be 5 million. If, despite all due diligence, the total amount received were lower in the collection rates, there is a risk that the amount for criminal proceedings would be lower. We will ensure that benefits from the Damage Fund Violent Crimes and the quality of support for victims do not suffer from a low return from the contribution scheme. There are still a number of other questions from the Chamber. That's part eight. Mr Schouw, Mr Segers and Mr Van Oosten have asked what the contribution will add to the penalties and to the measure that the criminal court can impose. We have just spoken about this, even during the debate with Mrs Kooiman. We have already looked at this in more detail in the letter. I come to Mr Segers and Mr Oskam and Mrs Kooiman's question as to why this is not a sanction, but an administrative measure. We have just spoken about this in the debate with Mr Schouw. On the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the following elements are relevant to the question of whether there is a penalty. These are the classification under national law, the nature and purpose of the measure, the procedure for imposition and enforcement and the gravity of the measure. When I test these criteria, I come to the following conclusion. The contribution has been classified under national law as an administrative measure. The imposition procedure shall be administrative. The collection is also administrative. The contribution is collected in accordance with the General Administrative Law Act. With regard to the gravity, two things are important. Firstly, that only a very small part of the costs will be passed on. Secondly, the relative impact of the measures, i.e. through payment schemes and remission schemes, is taken into account in detail. Finally, the essence is that this contribution scheme is not punitive in nature. It's not a punitive target either. That's up to the criminal court. The principle is that the costs incurred by the public authorities in criminal proceedings, victim care and detention are partly passed on to the person who has caused those costs. It's not a punishment for that either. We have dealt with the issue of criminal law. So is the point of Germany. Mr Segers asked about the consequences of these proposals for those who do not pay their fine. Those who do not pay their fine and have to serve their replacement detention pay a contribution for the stay. That's the way it's planned. They stay in detention and thus incur very high costs. It is important that the criminal court always takes into account the capacity of the person concerned when imposing a fine, so that the fine does not in principle exceed the payment potential of the person concerned. Mr Schouw, Mrs Kooiman and Mr Oskam asked whether these proposals would be taken back to the cabinet position of State Secretary Albayrak in 2008. We have already responded extensively to this in the letter. For the sake of time, I am satisfied with a reference to that reasoning. Mr Oskam and Mr Van der Staaij asked about the most recent contribution scheme we had in the Netherlands, which was adopted in 1896. It is true that between 1813 and 1896... I am very pleased with this part. I'm gonna take plenty of time for it, too. I think this is one of the nicer parts of this business. I remember very well that my predecessor said when he took office:...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u71	Just limit yourself to your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u72	...I remember what I did in 1896, I always regretted that. It is true that the Code of Criminal Procedure from 1813 to 1896 provided for an own contribution scheme for costs incurred in criminal proceedings. The sentenced person was ordered to pay the costs of issuing documents and the summoning of witnesses and experts. Due to practical objections from the Council of State, the regime was abolished in 1896 as Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Oskam recalled. At that time, a number of specific practical objections were raised. Only certain court fees were passed on. The amount due was far too dependent on accidental circumstances. Co-suspects took the fall for charges caused by another co-suspect. The contribution scheme put a heavy pressure on the convicted person. As a result of hostage-taking, which was still widely used, rehabilitated convicts were suddenly at risk of being disturbed in work and caring for the family. The revenues were, unlike what is foreseen at present, hardly relevant. These recent criticisms by the Council of State have also been taken into account in this scheme. There is no longer only a narrower court fees and no reference is made to certain procedural procedures, but a fixed lump sum. The lump sums also avoid an administratively large and difficult procedure. Nor is there the effect that suspects should suffer procedurally from the decisions taken by a co-suspect. In addition, the collection scheme, unlike at the time, applied reasonableness and fairness. But that's a repeat of moves. Then Mrs Helder raised the question of whether we were prepared to criminalize the escape of prisoners and TBs themselves, so that they too would have to pay a contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings. I hope that this will never or hardly be relevant, but that is more in the area of the Secretary of State. Fortunately, in recent years it turned out to be hardly relevant either. Given the costs incurred for the prosecution and trial of this very small, specific group, a scheme for this small group would always cost more. It also detracts from the principle, because they will already contribute. If they are prisoners or TBs, they already contribute to the costs. Mr Segers has asked in which countries the contribution is successful and what are the success factors. For this I would like to refer to the report commissioned by my predecessor, Professor Tak from Groningen. In his conclusions he states that the basis for the scheme is not in question in Germany, England and Wales. I told you that after the report was published in England and Wales a further arrangement was made. In England and Wales there is a tariff list. Thus, there too, it appears that the determination of actual costs is not yet so simple, whereas that is the starting point of the scheme. Germany's criticism is mainly due to the complexity of the regulation and the way it is implemented. This is also apparent from Professor Tak's report. We have taken all these points into account in this proposal. Mr Oskam has asked two more questions. Why is there a more extensive comparative legal investigation available in the criminal proceedings contribution than in the residence contribution? The assignment to Professor Tak in 2012 was to investigate the conviction of the defendants to contribute to the costs of the proceedings in England and Germany. That was before the government agreement agreed on a proposal for both contribution arrangements. In this context, the question arose as to whether the principle of polluter pays, widely endorsed by the Chamber, was a reasonable starting point to be included in the coalition agreement. Of course, the prisoner's own contribution was not yet included in the government agreement when the report was made. Mr Oskam has also asked whether a second round of consultations has been envisaged. It is not customary to hold a second round of consultations. Apart from the timetable of these legislative proposals, there was no particular reason to launch a second round of consultation. The opinions delivered and the views expressed by the Court in the first term have been taken into account, whether or not by means of an explanation in the letter referred to several times. The advisory bodies will, of course, be able to comment on the draft implementing decisions to be consulted in the short term. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the answers to the questions I have asked about the first legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u73	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Oskam. Then I will ask you to respond to Mrs Helder's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u74	The Minister was pleased to tell us about the 1896 contribution scheme. I know he likes history very much, so I would like to take a step in history with him from 119 years to 17 June 2015 and the amendment by Mr Rebel. It states that the systematic perpetrators will be removed from the contribution scheme. What are the financial consequences for that net 60 million? Or does it really not matter because they cannot pay after all or because they are potentially eligible for this remission scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u75	The Secretary of State will be happy to answer that question when dealing with the legislative proposal on which the Rebel amendment refers. Mr President, you asked me about the response to Mr Helder's amendments. Mrs Helder will not be surprised that I have to advise against both amendments. She nods, but she will undoubtedly disagree. These amendments make the contribution dependent on income. This makes the execution much more complex and expensive. You then have to assess the amount on a case-by-case basis and sometimes several times, because the judge first has to determine what the income or assets are at the time of the imposition. This prolongs the criminal process and complicates it. Then this has to happen again, because I think it is very reasonable for you to look again at what is possible at the moment when you are actually going to collect. I do agree with Mrs Helder, however, and I think that the whole Chamber shares that view: that wealthy criminals must always be dealt with. But we have other means for this, such as the legislation on withdrawal and the so-called 'pluk-ze' legislation. So the adage, the motto, is that the PVV Group's amendments are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr. Chairman. I will divide my speech into four parts. I will begin with the resocialisation and financial position of prisoners. Then I will answer the questions about the role of the municipality and the debt relief. I will then deal with the questions about the amounts to be imposed and labour in detention. I am saving the amendment that was just asked for until the last time. Much has been said about resocialisation, the position of detainees and the increase in repeated crime. Many concerns have been expressed, because this group is not dependent on high incomes and this is also coming to an end. What effect does this have? Like the Minister, I can imagine those concerns. I can certainly also imagine that it would lead to great resistance, although that is always up to the Members themselves, if we were to assume in the law what seems to be a bit of the picture now, namely that everyone should pay a maximum amount and that we would not take into account that people with a minimum income would get a maximum debt. In the first term, the most winged term in the Chamber was "the bald chicken." The proposal is now designed in such a way that the bare chicken is not picked and that the last feathers are not plucked from the chicken either. This is taken into account in all kinds of ways. That translates into a carefully estimated yield. There is certainly no transfer of the maximum amount for all detainees entered in the budget. That's not the point. In our view, in my view, there is a balance between the principle that you allow people to contribute in a modest way to the costs they incur for society and to the building up of safeguards and rules so that this does not act counterproductively in the area of resocialisation and recidivism. 87% of the prisoners have an income six months after the end of detention. Many have this in the form of a benefit; I admit that. This will therefore also result in a limited capacity to repay, but this will be taken into account. It also appears that a large proportion of ex-convicts are slightly less than half, i.e. 45% of debt is less than €1,000 or no debt at all. The legislative proposals contain many provisions to take into account the financial position of ex-convicts who have to pay. In this context, I believe that this is a balanced proposal, which is based on the principle that people contribute in practice to the costs they incur for society. The child is not thrown away with the bath water, nor is there a huge burden imposed on him. There's about 135,000 convictions a year. 28% of the convicted people benefit from the regulation which I am defending here, because only 28% of the cases have an unconditional custodial sentence. That makes the group a lot more limited. Moreover, half of this group is in detention for less than a month. The own contribution thus remains below €500 for these people. The amount of fear, the maximum amount of €11,680 for the own contribution, applies only to 3% of the 28% group of convicted persons. Of course, it remains a considerable amount for that group. That's what the remission modes are for. But to put it in perspective: it is not that the whole amount applies to a lot of people. It's a limited build-up. Mr Schouw and Mr Oskam asked in this light how real it is that someone finds a job. The research we have on this shows that 87% have an income within six months, most of which are benefits. Of the people who have an income, 14.4% have an income from labour. In the case of a benefit you can collect, although it depends on which type of benefit it is. There will never be less than 95% of the level of assistance. That is one of the reasons for the modest rate of collection. These effects are taken into account, and of the people who can't afford them, you're not gonna pick them, so to speak. Mr Segers asked about the debt position. How big is the group of inmates who are already in debt for detention? The third monitor aftercare shows that 70% to 73% of prisoners are in debt. It is important to look at the height of that. As I said, 45% have a debt of less than €1,000. 21% is not to blame at all. I will not say that this is little, but it is not the case that it is all stacked, torrential debts. Mrs Kooiman asked a question about Germany. Why isn't it imposed there? Does this have anything to do with the possible obstacle to re-socialisation? Professor Tak's research shows that in a number of German Länder there is no collection. That's a political choice by state. I think it should also be seen in a political context. Many other states do. The report also states that, following criticism, several studies have been carried out in Germany on the effects of this scheme on resocialisation. None of these studies have shown that there is an immediate link between payment obligations and resocialisation. I do not want to turn it around; I do not want to prove that it is not there. But scientists have been looking for direct coherence and have not found it. I think that the difference in how states deal with it should therefore be interpreted primarily politically. That is a legitimate choice, but no reason for us not to make this proposal. Mr Oskam indicated that 37% of the prisoners should pay the maximum contribution. In addition, the nuance is that 3% of the prisoners must pay the maximum contribution, but 37% of them are stuck for two to three years. The rest of the people who have to pay the maximum contribution must do so because they are stuck for more than two to three years. They pay the same rate because of the maximation at two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr Oskam also asked whether prisoners could pay for it, in which he said that the CAK had estimated that a lot of payment arrangements would have to be made and remissions would have to be made. The Minister has already taken up payment capacity. In principle, the payment system does not necessarily affect the yield but the rhythm at which it enters. A scheme can also lead to the payment of the full amount, other than if we dropped the axe more quickly, we would demand payment immediately and would have to cancel it otherwise. It is, of course, true that cases of remission have been taken into account, in which, because there is no income, there is also no revenue and recovery. Mr Schouw and Mr Oskam asked whether the rate of collection of 14% is not low and whether it could not be higher. The recovery rate of 14% is not set because this is the expected rate. Something new, of course, makes it difficult. You can let go of all kinds of models that give you quite a bandwidth. Everything up to 32% is considered real, but for the budget you have to hold back a little bit. Therefore, the percentage of 14% is indicated. This brings the budgeted revenue of 7 million. Everything above 14% is nicely included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u78	I apologise for asking a very factual question, but the answer to that is important to me. How much time does it take between the release from detention and the test of whether someone can pay or in debt relief?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u79	I'm just gonna get that out of my head. There will be billed when the detention is over. Well, then, of course, a little bit of time goes by. If anyone says he can't pay, they'll be tested. If someone starts paying or applies for a scheme, we'll take that route. Furthermore, it is always considered whether there is a change in income position. If we can't pay for five years, we'll be absolved. Then there will never be any collection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u80	It is a critical phase in which there is indeed a fear of recurrence. If people are dealing with debt and a difficult position, I wonder if there will be immediate help. Is that help gonna come along soon? I really care about that fear of recidivism. If there is a debt pressing on people, it might encourage them to choose the wrong path again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u81	I would like to answer that question in full, but then I have to bring up some of my input in response to other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u82	I suggest you answer this question later. Mr Segers will then be able to indicate whether his question has been adequately answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u83	We have all received the figures from the Minister and the Secretary of State. The fact remains that 11,000 prisoners with a debt between €1,500 and €12,000 are going to leave prison and thus end up in debt relief. These are trajectories which the Minister said just now: even if they only pay a few dimes or quarters, they have at least shown their will. But it all costs a lot more money than it gets?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u84	Not on balance. In cases where everything is finally forgiven, every effort, even typing the invoice, has cost more than paid. But we are not looking at this arrangement on a case-by-case basis, including a prediction of whether it will produce any results. That would be really expensive. We have an arrangement with costs of between 5 and 6 million. There's a gross return of 65 million. So you're gonna catch 60 million net. The collection costs are reasonable in our view. The yield on the opposite side is many times higher. It is possible that it is difficult for people with high debts to pay, but those people are also long and have made it so. It's always the same way that someone can pay. The discharge procedures are always looked at in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u85	I'm gonna try to take it to a different level. What is the government's line when it comes to simplifying regulation? Another Secretary of State for the VVD is currently talking to a number of political parties about simplifying the tax system, because it is no longer working, because there are too many exceptions. I'm just gonna say it on the main lines. We are talking here about one exception to another exception to a detailed regulation, which, indeed, I agree with Mr Oskam, sometimes deals with the collection of dimes and quarters per month from an ex-con. If you submit this to Secretary of State Wiebes, I think he'll say, "Mad Henkie, are they crazy?" How is the simplification of the tax system, because it does not work because it is too complicated, compatible with this bill, which, for example, makes it even more complicated, more complex and more detailed by Mrs Rebel's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u86	I'm just gonna peel it off. It is, of course, up to the Chamber to adopt an amendment or not. That doesn't make it any more complicated. I don't make new exceptions over and over again. I always give the same guarantee on another scenario requested by the Chamber. There are one or two forgiveness schemes that work quite clearly: for five years insufficient income is remission. In addition, a Secretary of State for Finance is, of course, very pleased with a measure which provides a net contribution to the Treasury and which is also specifically paid by those who cause the costs. This contribution does not therefore have to be collected from the general taxpayer by means of a levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u87	To say that the Secretary of State for Finance is happy with the 60 million, which hopefully is going to make it net, is of course a nice escape. In the Chamber we have had parliamentary investigations and parliamentary surveys on the impossibility of rules. I think we are dealing with the same issue tonight. I find it strange that the cabinet does not seriously want to reflect on the enormous complexity and detail of the regulation under this bill. Is that because it was agreed in the coalition agreement? There's a sentence in there, and we have to do it. Or is that because there is a lack of reflection on these two, yet fresh, rulers on the feasibility of policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u88	This is a tempting or-or question, the latter of course is not the issue anyway. At implication, you'd almost think I'd confirm the first. We are responding to the many questions put by the Chamber in order to change them. That is indeed the risk that Mr Schouw puts forward. We have opted for a regulation that does justice to the position of people who are in trouble because of financial problems, but at the same time we also have uniformity and feasibility at the top of our agenda. That is why we work with standard payment schemes and the decision to make an individual payment scheme is taken only at the request of the contributor. It must itself ask for payment to be deferred and whether it is willing to do so is determined by a standard calculation method. There are also clear criteria for the waiver in the law, so that it does not become a discretionary waiver. This would mean that you would have to develop all sorts of policies again in cases where this discretionary power has been applied or not, and that you would have to deal with all kinds of new policies and new exceptions as a result of a debate in the Chamber on whether or not something is reasonable. It is precisely for the reasons mentioned by Mr Schouw that we have chosen a package which means that the person who caused the costs will be collected. It will have to pay a limited contribution to the costs. We provide for exceptions for people who cannot afford it, but in a uniform way, because it minimises the cost of execution and the net yield is as high as possible. Mrs. Rebel asked how we deal with the isd'ers. In advance, no group is excluded from paying the contribution. The target group of the ISD measure is, of course, a specific one, because there is often a build-up of problems with these people. These people usually have multiple problems, and that is why it is our estimate that this is not where the highest yield comes from. On the other hand, it is not excluded that, after successful treatment, a person has an income with which he can pay that contribution. In addition, the same payment and remission arrangements apply to people with an ISD measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u89	People are being imposed an isd measure because they have multiple problems; it is a multi-problem group. These people often have a whole history before the ISD measure is imposed. Due to the ISD measure, they were immediately condemned to the maximum own contribution. You just mentioned the numbers. This is the 3%! This is the bald chicken, which is usually also an addicted bald chicken. I can imagine that the fact that this group will never contribute to the collection of its own contribution has already been taken into account in the booking process. That is perhaps why I tabled the amendment. The maximum own contribution weighs very heavily on this group and this may also have consequences for the imposition of this measure. After all, we know that it is a difficult measure to take away a person's freedom for two years. In fact, has this group been completely deciphered in the calculations? We do ask for a maximum contribution of our own to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u90	No group has been completely deciphered, because never say "never." Part of that group may have an income after the ISD measure, at least part of which may be paid. In practice, however, this will be the group where the waiver is applied as often as possible, and the argument is both for and against the use of the debt instrument, because there is simply little income. We know that. It has been taken into account, so this is already in the provisions in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u91	I would like to put a question in conjunction with Mr Oskam's question. This group is in fact already not included in the amount to be recovered from the own contribution. Why is there no exception for this particular group, where there is a penalty whereby the persons concerned will pay a maximum of their own contribution? This group is not included. We can discuss this; the Secretary of State will undoubtedly have his arguments for it. This does not do justice to the complex problems of this group and the limited opportunities these people have, precisely because of the ISD measure. This has been demonstrated by the ISD measure over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u92	It will not be a problem in practice, especially for the group referred to by Mrs Rebel, because we already have the forgiveness for that. We did not categorically exclude the group. It doesn't say in the calculations: forget the isd group. We didn't look like that. The principle applies to everyone. In practice, it will be the most difficult and there will be remission if there is no income. As a matter of course, in practice, a higher percentage of remissions will be made by the guarantees we have already provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr Schouw also has a question for you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u94	There was talk of the isd. The amendment inspired me to a number of other categories: addicts, persons with severe behavioural impairment and, for example, the mentally handicapped. Is that about the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u95	It's categorically tricky. Mr Schouw thus explains exactly why I will be rejecting this. We make it unnecessary complex by applying all kinds of estimated categories in advance. I think the best criterion is actually: can someone pay? If not, we will cancel the contribution. If so, the person must pay. What's causing it isn't so relevant to the law. In the light of experience, we know that people with problems like this or even their accumulation often have no income in practice and therefore, because they have no income, they are covered by the remission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u96	I can't get a pin in there. Is the consequence of this that the cabinet therefore rejects the PvdA Group's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u97	The tension is going to come off a little bit, because I had saved the judgment for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u98	I was about to ask if you could make an assessment of the amendment, but Mr Schouw was ahead of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u99	That is indeed the only logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u100	The amendment in part No. Mrs Rebel's 9 is thus not recommended. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mrs Rebel also asked for an additional waiver in the first period, a discretionary power for which the parole board advises. The bill contains two possibilities for remission. Firstly, remission takes place if a person has paid five years in terms of wealth or has been unable to pay for five years. In the second variant, an amicable settlement and a friendly debt settlement can be agreed in accordance with the modules we have for that purpose. I believe that these two possibilities have struck a good balance between, on the one hand, taking into account practice and, on the other hand, upholding the principle that prisoners contribute to the costs they incur. So I do not see any reason for a further variant, a further mode of remission. Mrs Rebel also asked a question about debt relief. If people go into detention with debts, do we wait until they go out of detention with debt relief? That is not the intention, and it is not the intention. DJI will continue to facilitate, during detention, possible work on the debt situation. This involves giving insight into the debt situation and working on its stabilisation. This can be done through the reintegration centre with volunteers or case managers available for this purpose. For motivated inmates there is the possibility to offer training "to deal with money." DJI also offers municipalities the possibility to offer debt relief services for which they are responsible already during detention. We see a slow improvement in the link between, in particular, large municipalities such as Amsterdam and The Hague, and the reintegration centre. We are already trying to make the best use of detention time to support debt relief when needed. The MPs Rebel, Kooiman, Segers and Schouw asked some questions along these lines. Is it a cost at local level? What does the UNG think of the additional burden on municipal debt relief? It's been discussed at the Strategic Board Security. We also mentioned this in the letter. It is not a question of entitlement to assistance; it is a question of debt relief. It is not possible to say in advance to what extent there is an influx of debt relief. We have seen that some of the people in detention already have a debt and that they could also use debt relief. We're gonna keep an eye on this through the monitoring aftercare of the WODC. The VNG is also on the advisory committee and is closely involved in this. I have no doubt that municipalities will raise it in the Strategic Board Security if their costs have increased as a result of this measure. We will monitor this ourselves. Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Rebel have asked about the claim that addicted ex-convicts can make on debt restructuring pathways. The municipality is responsible and assumes broad accessibility. No group of illegally staying foreigners in the Netherlands is categorically excluded from the provision of debt relief. An addicted ex-con can thus also be admitted to debt relief. In practice, it is of course more common in this category of people, also because of a combination of problems, that they are not eligible for a debt relief scheme, because the underlying problem has to be solved first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u102	The last point raised by the Secretary of State is interesting. It is indeed up to the municipality itself whether or not someone is eligible for debt relief. That is precisely where the core lies, and that is where, according to my group, the PvdA has a lot of concerns. You can make a bill to put this forward, but in the end it's up to the municipality to solve the problems. This is a bit of a discrepancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u103	No, the city doesn't have to solve the problems. It's about debt that's wider. It is about a debt that is partly caused and increased by this bill. This, in conjunction with being unable to meet this debt, has led to the inclusion of the remission scheme in the law. This law, which may lead to a debt to people or at least automatically leads to it if people are released from prison, provides a provision for this. So we don't put that on the board of the municipality. For the rest, there may be debt problems. I have understood those questions as referring to more than just debts caused by the bill. I mentioned earlier how we from DJI already do our best during detention to help people work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u104	The Secretary of State now poses two problems: the probation is subject to double taxation and administrative burdens when it comes to guiding this group of people. This is particularly true in the case of addiction rehabilitation, which is precisely guiding the people who are in huge debt and already find it very difficult. As debt will increase and the target group will increase, this State Secretary deliberately imposes an additional tax on the municipalities. How does the Secretary of State intend to solve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u105	If so, we will find out and act accordingly. However, I do not think it is. I'm not putting the trouble there right now. It's problems people have and we've agreed on how we'll deal with them. These problems already exist. It's not like I'm putting them down and the city doesn't know anything about it. It's their responsibility and that's how it's agreed. It is precisely in the event that this law produces debts that cannot be paid and that someone is in an income position that is so bad or even missing that we have this possibility of remission and, if there is an income, we have a payment system. I am making sure that, for the part that this law contributes to it, we have a net provision in the scheme itself. Mrs Rebel asked whether the municipal coordinator aftercare could play a role in reducing the social isolation of children and also the impact of parental detention on children. The importance of providing adequate care for the children of inmate mothers and reducing their impact is very great. I share that, too. Where care ultimately belongs to the municipalities, we have not left it at that. In order to ensure the organisation for that care and care, we have developed the so-called child check in the past. For careful implementation, the police, the judiciary and the municipalities work together. It must, of course, be clear what role and responsibility everyone has in this. As far as I am responsible, the child check is carried out in accordance with the agreements with the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport. In the call letter to the self-detectors, the DJI already asks whether someone themselves has the care for underage children. Reference shall be made to any reception or care facilities. When entering, even in the case of preventive detention, the first screening in the PI always asks for care for children. If that is relevant, the PI informs the coordinator aftercare at the municipality on that care for the children, because that care ultimately belongs to the municipality. Over the past period, we have seen that municipalities have not always had an equal view of their role in the care and care of children of inmate mothers and that the link to the aftercare coordinator was not always optimal. Together with my ministry and the VNG, the Ministry of VWS has developed a brochure that pays attention to the role of the municipal coordinator aftercare in addition to the way the child check works. In doing so, the existing agreements are clearly described. That brochure was also presented to your Chamber by Secretary of State Van Rijn on behalf of me on 15 June last Monday. The brochure will soon be sent to all municipal coordinators aftercare and the PIs and will also be published on the website of voordejeugd.nl and on the site of the DJI. Regional meetings of the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security also explicitly call for attention to be given to this issue. Finally, I can inform you that the VWS Ministry is currently discussing with the VNG how municipalities or youth care institutions with which municipalities cooperate can play an even more prominent role in the front. The VNG has indicated that greater involvement from municipalities is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u106	I'm having second thoughts. I haven't seen a brochure on 15 June, but maybe it's my fault. I'll take a look at it. I would be very happy to do so, because I have drawn attention to this earlier. I'd like to go back to the part after detention. We may need to talk about the piece for detention at another time. We are now talking about the own contribution that will have an effect after detention. My question is to what extent the aftercare coordinator in post-detention care he has for the ex-detainee who returns to the municipality also takes into account the position of children. We have the Recofa method. In doing so, we guarantee that people are not below the minimum standard of living, but that is still very limited, especially for children who have already had to deal with a parent who has been in detention and who is coming back. What's this gonna mean for their social status? Can the Secretary of State clarify to what extent he has also discussed this with the UNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u107	I understand that the letter may have come to the VWS committee. That is being checked, so perhaps we can report that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u108	This law can, of course, create a financial problem. In this sense, this may affect a reduction in the available income of a former inmate, even if that person has children. To this end, we agree with the existing methods which are also used by Social Affairs. The same minimums apply to debts. There is no limitation or other arrangement with more room if the debt is caused or is partly caused by the own contribution that one has to pay because one has been detained by one's own actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u109	No, sec, it's about debt. In the end, the way in which the debts were incurred has no influence. In this case, however, it is an own contribution which the government still imposes. I think it is important to ensure that the care coordinator is aware of the social isolation of this very vulnerable group of children. They are already dealing with a taboo situation and will not be easy to call into question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u110	That is why we are now making efforts to improve the link between the aftercare coordinator and the municipality and to make the existing responsibilities more consistent, so that the parties to the aftercare take the situation with the children into account immediately. Of course, the consequences of debt have a direct impact on this. Mr Oskam and Mrs Helder have asked a question about the contribution of lifelong punishments. If the people are collected when they are released, but these people are not released, then we cannot collect. It's as simple as that. The choice to start collecting only after the end of detention is included specifically on the advice of the Council of State, to take into account the fact that there is no earning capacity during detention and only afterwards. It is not a conscious, specific choice to make an additional exception for lifelong inmates. The scheme states that we will only bill when there is earning capacity again after detention. As a result, there will be no invoice or collection after detention if there is no "after detention" ever again. Mr Segers asked whether we could make the relationship with the amount of our own contribution in regular care institutions clear and how this relates to our own contribution to a judicial establishment. He specifically talked about ggz and addiction care. I have mentioned amounts and percentages a few times, but now it's getting a little more technical. For the first three years, the stay in regular ggz and addiction care is funded under the Health Insurance Act. Then there is no specific own contribution. Depending on what else has been declared under the Health Insurance Act, there is one's own risk. That own risk again depends on the choices people have made. This can be the minimum of the annual mandatory own risk of €375, but also the maximum of €875 for this calendar year. If care is still necessary after three years, the funding will continue on the basis of the Long-Term Care Act. Then we come into another system and patients have to pay their own contribution to stay for a care institution. For care with stay, for example a recording in a ggz setting, there are two types of own contributions, low and high. Each patient pays the low contribution for the first six months, which is determined on the basis of the income or wealth and the age of the patient. In 2015, this is at least €158.60 per month and up to €832.60 per month. After the first six months, the patient's personal circumstances will be examined and, on this basis, it will be determined whether he should pay a lower or higher contribution. If he changes from a low to a high contribution, its level depends on the income or wealth and the age of the patient. The maximum for the current calendar year is €2,284,60 per month. That's the VWS part. The current own contribution scheme that we are dealing with here provides for a flat rate of €16 per person per day. It's a little easier to handle. This is calculated at a maximum of €496 per month, if the month counts 31 days. The question has been asked whether we are also looking at the comparable contributions in the youth ggz and whether we have been in contact with colleagues from VWS on this issue. From the answer to the previous question it can be inferred that this contact has been there. I didn't know that exactly either. For the parental contribution, we looked at what was previously the closed youth care, because the background of the schemes is very similar. The State takes over care and cost of living from the parents and then it is also reasonable for the maintenance agents to make a contribution to these costs for the parents............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have always put this in addition to the VWS regulations. We have also followed closely the parliamentary treatment of the Youth Act. The starting point is always that parental contributions to stay in the jji should be equal to parental contributions in the youth care system, because it is unreasonable that parents of children who have not committed criminal offences should pay a contribution, and parents of children who have committed criminal offences should not. Recent developments, namely questions about parental contributions in youth aid, have led to an investigation by State Secretary Van Rijn. Because we want to ensure that this is done as evenly as possible, we will monitor this research and its results very closely. If that is the case, we shall inform the Chamber of further intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u111	What does the Secretary of State mean by "close tracking"? The result may be that the parental contribution in the youth care system will lapse, as desired by the Congress of the Labour Party and many opposition parties in the Chamber. If that parent's contribution expires, what is the consequence of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u112	Since it may have a different outcome than the current situation and then it will have an impact on this bill, I will follow it closely. If I didn't do anything with it, I wouldn't have to follow it closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u113	If I listen carefully to the Secretary of State, then we can delete this bill, because after the summer, the Secretary of State of the United States of America will come forward with the results of that investigation. It may say that no parental contribution is levied. Then we can actually bang this bill into the trash can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u114	Part of it, when it comes to the Yi's, can have influence. Since there is a 'if-then' a number of times in Mrs Kooiman's reasoning which leads to the most extreme consequence, I will follow it closely. Mr Van der Staaij asked for an explanation of the choice for the amount of €16 per day. I think that he was trying to provoke the answer that this is not an arbitrary amount but a justified amount of money. Because the real costs are many times higher, it certainly looks at the desired yield. They are all sliding panels, of course, but they also looked at the following. At a lower amount you have a higher rate of collection. Somewhere you have on all those axes optima of the collection rate, the intended yield, the realistic reasonable amount to be asked and the total amount that can come out in the most extreme case. They also looked at how things went abroad. This figure has been chosen from all these factors. Mrs Helder and Mr Oskam asked why not during detention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u115	I just wanted to give you the opportunity to finish, but now that you have already stopped, I give the floor to Mr Oskam for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u116	I still have a question about abroad, because abroad they work and earn more in prison so that they can pay those costs more easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u117	This is almost scary, because I was just about to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u118	Then I should have done it like I intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u119	Firstly, it cannot be paid from work during detention, because the earning capacity during detention is not such that you can earn back €16 per day. That choice was also made to make the collection process as efficient as possible. In order to avoid differentiation and to make it as simple as possible, it has been chosen to place the collection moment after the end of detention. Only then will you know exactly how high the amount is to be paid. For example, you don't know if someone has earned a provisional release. Those are the reasons for not doing it until after. Secondly, you can say that the earning capacity is too low, so that is only up, then you can do it during detention. That's what Mr. Oskam just asked. He made the comparison with other countries. Working abroad in detention often has a very different background. Those who work there deserve more, but the number of people allowed to work is much lower. Then far more is selected in advance on the abilities of those people and let much less people do more lucrative work. We often also see it as an important element of socialisation, where you also want to give people the opportunity to spend their time usefully. As a result, you also take orders that lead to lower returns and lower hourly wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u120	This resocialisation is of course important, but it is also important that people do not build up any more debts in prison, because they will then have problems after their detention. Do the people who are not allowed to work abroad have to pay a substantial contribution, just as much as the people who are allowed to work abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u121	I am not aware of any differentiation. These things are also separate from each other, because the counter runs when there is another income after the detention. If there is no income after detention, there is no refund, and if the repayment takes too long, then there is remission. In that sense, there is no difference. Apart from the link to this bill, I am constantly looking to improve this. I don't see any link to the bill, but that doesn't mean that work during detention isn't developing. If this is not the case, it is also possible to look at a higher hourly wage and a change in the wage system involved. Of course, it will never be huge, but it will be higher than it is now. For that we have a number of pilots running. Mr Segers asked a question about the pilots in Heerhugowaard and Arnhem. They started on 1 March 2014 and will continue until the evaluation is completed. The pilots are aimed at increasing the self-reliance of the detainees, by using them for work in the establishment. One should think of customised security or more efficient organisation of work. In this context, it also examines where more autonomy and responsibility can be earned within the framework of an establishment. That is now being evaluated; we will involve Mr Segers' point. Ms. Helder asked what would happen if there were more than €500 on the prison bill after a prison sentence. Why do they get that back when they go out and why don't we take the amount above €500 right away? This is a charming and simple thought, but we did not choose to do so, because this would be an additional complication in the execution. After all, we make the DJI part of the collection process. In addition, it would lead to additional implementation issues and implementation costs. In fact, it amounts to a preferential right of draw for the cost of staying on any other debts that the prisoner has. I do not think that this is desirable in this case, for example because the prisoner has commitments to the victim. I wouldn't want to ride a trekking right in between. On the basis of the foregoing considerations, we do not make that choice. Mrs Kooiman asked whether we could not have things made in prison, which we would then have bought by the government. As far as possible, this is already happening on a limited scale. That's gonna be extended. We will continue to bring this to the attention of the public as much as possible and to extend it even further, within the limits of what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the government's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u123	Madam President. I would like to thank both directors for their extremely thorough and enthusiastic response. Of course I cannot fail to thank Mr Van der Steur once again for his letter of 22 May. He quoted that letter himself 15 times. It's a good thing we got that letter then. The enthusiasm and belief in our own plans is always greatly appreciated by my group, but while I listened to the answer, I was reminded of the debate we had here three quarters of a year ago with Secretary of State Bitch on the anklet. Then there were about the same people here. They thought: it's nice that the Secretary of State still believes in it, but we don't do it anymore, and the proposal won't make it to the finish line in the First Chamber either. That's what we all thought back then, and that's what came out of it. What I found very special was that Bitch, when it didn't finish in the First Chamber, said to the media: I don't shed any tears for the loss of that anklet either. I do see a parallel to this bill. In the first term, this Chamber has been very critical. I do not really see that the cabinet has responded to that criticism. As anyone in this room can count, I can count. I think it will be a pyrrus victory here, in the House of Representatives, but really a loss of the bill in the House of First Instance, which I regret for these two enthusiastic rulers. The concerns which my group has and which have been expressed extensively here in the first period have not been removed. They concern a number of classic points in the meantime. The first point concerns recidivism. People who are in debt relapse more than people who are not in debt. With this bill, they're building up more debt in prison. That's a problem. You can talk about that for a long time and you can pretend that's not a problem, but it's a problem. It leads to high social costs, but they are not included in the proposal. That is a very important point. The second point concerns the reliability of the cost-benefit analysis. We have also spoken about this in the case of interruption. We can talk any longer about whether the cost-benefit analysis now includes all the costs, whether only the direct costs have been included and the indirect costs forgotten, but we think it is an unreliable picture. The third point relates to the fact that a person is being punished by a judge and that, in addition to that, an administrative measure is actually imposing an additional penalty on him. Then the Minister can say that this is not really such a problem, but my group predicts that it will be a problem, because the judge is going to anticipate this new punishment and then you have achieved nothing at all. The last point concerns the feasibility of legislation, the other important point that we in the Chamber must take very careful note of. I have already said it in an interruption: it is very important to keep legislation clear and unambiguous. This is so detailed, so exceptional and so terribly complex that it will be unworkable. There's a proverb "executor, make it short." I will. I will advise my group to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. It's not a proverb, it's a climax that you keep until last. Let me put it to you: my group will vote in favour of both legislative proposals. Nevertheless, I still have a text of speech and an unusual number of motions for resolutions. So I'm gonna get started soon. First of all, I would like to thank both directors for their comprehensive response. I have not heard any fundamental rejection in the answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State to questions about the accumulation of costs, about a higher contribution for wealthy criminals, about the charging of own contribution to parents of convicted minors, about the costs of escape and so on. I have even heard the Minister say on some points that my group is right. However, I have also heard him mention two reasons why he does not go along with the proposals. Firstly, he said that I want the broadest possible support, at least I want support for the legislative proposal, and that is why I do not accept the suggestion on the cumulation of costs. Secondly, as did the Secretary of State on a regular basis, he said that the cost of collection would be too high, higher than the budgeted 5.9 million. At first, nobody was on this subject at all. I remember that from Secretary of State Albayrak and then Secretary of State Teeven. My group was all alone in it. But now, years later, we're talking about it. Anyway, the keeper wins. Then we can do it all of a sudden. It's been thought through. I therefore appreciate the opportunity to discuss it here tonight. My group therefore welcomes the legislative proposals. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Still, I'm trying to tighten them up. I can often guess the answers, but it is my job to go for them, to support them as well as possible, and to make it as difficult as possible for the Minister and the Secretary of State. That's a challenge, too. That also means that I maintain both my amendments and I will table a number of motions, as I said. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this bill provides that if a person is convicted of multiple offences in the same proceedings, he or she will only have to pay the contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings once;]] [[Considering that the purpose of the legislative proposal is to combat the high costs of detecting, prosecuting and prosecuting criminal offences and the care of victims of those offences, and to ensure that the perpetrators of criminal offences contribute to the costs of criminal proceedings;]] [[Whereas the payment of the contribution by a person convicted in the same proceedings for several offences is contrary to this objective only once, since, although there is only one criminal procedure, the costs of, for example, the police and the NFI are incurred on a case-by-case basis in the context of the investigation;]] [[calls on the Government to have its own contribution accumulated if a person is convicted in the same proceedings for multiple offences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people, both minors and adolescents, are excluded from the obligation to pay their own contribution;]] [[noting that parents are responsible for the conduct and consequences of their minor children;]] [[noting that adolescents are persons from 18 to 23 years of age who are entitled to vote, obtain a driving licence and so on, and it is therefore incomprehensible that they should not be referred to their own responsibility in the context of this legislative proposal in the sense that they too should not provoke a criminal response;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that adolescents from 18 to 23 years of age simply pay the contribution themselves and provide for parental contributions for minors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34067-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34067-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u125	I come to the last motion under this bill. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the event of a criminal offence, the court may take into account all the circumstances of the case, even if these circumstances are in no way related to the offence, such as a contribution to the criminal proceedings imposed;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that circumstances unrelated to the offence and falling under the responsibility of the offender do not take into account the circumstances of the case, in the sense that they cannot lead to a lower sentence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34067-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u126	In order not to prejudice the Secretary of State, I also have three motions for him. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that detainees have an obligation to pay for their own contribution to detention after the end of detention;]] [[Whereas people who are not in detention must also meet their payment obligations on a monthly basis;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to review the assets of detainees not after the end of detention but upon entry into the judicial establishment;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to collect its own contribution to detention not after the end of detention, but in monthly instalments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the own contribution imposed on detainees for the purpose of staying in a judicial establishment will not be collected until the end of detention;]] [[noting that they will not pay their own contribution for life imprisonment, as they will in principle no longer leave prison;]] [[considers that life imprisonment should not be exempted from the cost of staying in a judicial establishment;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that life-long sentences also pay their own contribution to the costs of detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34068-11]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34068-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mrs Helder makes it seem a bit like this is an idea of the PVV Group. Of course it was, but it was taken over by the rulers. It's a good proposal that she's going to support. I have never seen so many amendments and so many motions being tabled. Doesn't that mean it's a bad proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u128	No, Mr Oskam would have listened very badly to the beginning of my speech and to my second term. I said straight away that my group will vote in favour of both legislative proposals. I said in the middle of the second term that we welcome the proposal, but it is always a challenge to try to tighten it up. That's what I'm doing here. It's not a bad proposal, but as a Member of Parliament you always have to tighten up, I think. I come, last but not least, to my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that prisoners perform (obligatory) work in the penitentiary establishment;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[Whereas prisoners in prison, including in preparation for life after detention, should work in order to meet the cost of housing, as well as those who have not been put in prison, as a rule work in order to cover the cost of housing;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that prisoners with (a part of) the earned wage contribute to the costs of their detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34068-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u129	Madam President. I would like to thank both directors for their detailed answers. Like Mr Schouw, I was reminded of the bill on electronic detention. This also had financial implications for the budget for V and J. It was also very difficult to organise a virtual First Chamber majority before that. In fact, it was a bill for which the Christian Union Group was the only one to vote at the time, alongside the coalition groups. We are so constructive sometimes. But there is an important difference, because then there was a secretary of state who didn't really feel like it and defended that proposal with long teeth, especially in the Upper House. I have seen other rulers working tonight, who have exhausted themselves in a very eloquenced defense. I also thank them for the letter. We have not been short of facts and figures this evening; there was total clarity. In the end, it comes to a political balance. It is important for the Christian Union Group to see what this proposal does to families and to what extent it helps or frustrates re-socialization. This is an important criterion, as is the relationship between debt-taking and recidivism. The Minister said that there is no one-to-one relationship between them. I'll give him that. At the same time, for example, is there a 2011 report of the WODC, entitled In debt, in error? That report ends with the conclusion: on the basis of this investigation, we can conclude that there is a link between debt and criminal behavior. That is a very important point. What does this do with recidivism? Don't we make the problem bigger than we solve something? We also had a question about implementation. Those are intrusive questions that I asked in the first term. A detailed answer has been given and I must say in all honesty that I am sceptical, but that I will allow it to work on me. I will come to a final balance in the group. So I'm gonna take this and we're gonna think about it. We shall vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr. Chairman. Combating relapses is preventing victims. That is the winged sentence with which we began our first term. With this bill, the directors choose to take the risk of violence against the safety of the Netherlands. If you increase the risk of ex-con creating more debts, which we know is a criminal factor, I think that's an irresponsible choice. Of course, it's quite something. If a prisoner has to pay €16 per week while earning only €0.76 per hour, that is not proportionate. We have carefully exchanged in the first term and in the written rounds that there are other solutions as well. That is why I am surprised by the following: D66 and the CDA have just mentioned this. The government has had two months to come up with a new plan. But all these directors do is say that they have looked closely at payment arrangements, while many other proposals have been reviewed. We support the idea that prisoners should contribute to their detention. Even we have said that, while we are totally opposed to the proposal as it has now been written down. We have come up with proposals to indicate how things could be different. I find it really surprising that these directors do not come forward with a different proposal two months later. Now we are at an impasse. This is not a vision of how we can make the Netherlands safer. This is more about the question: how do we deal with the state treasury? I don't want to be very faint, and so I'm coming up with two motions. I hope that the Secretary of State and the Minister will have some help with that. I want to help them with this a little bit more, because I think it's a shame if their good proposal is gone if this bill doesn't work out in the First Chamber. I shall therefore table the following motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the further criminal financial investigation (SFO) can be used by the Public Prosecutor during the appeal phase to see if additional assets can be seized;]] [[Whereas the removal of criminally acquired assets from the courts has not yet sufficiently developed into a specialty;]] [[noting that the Public Prosecutor's Office has experienced that a separate detention chamber such as the courthouse's-Hertogenbosch means that cases can be made more quickly and thus a closer SFO can be established more quickly;]] [[calls on the Government, with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, to discuss the possibility of setting up special packing chambers in the courts and to inform the Chamber of the outcome thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34067-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u131	That's what it is, of course, in essence. Taking away criminal assets is also a way to catch both criminals and to make the Netherlands safer, and this actually delivers something. Then I have another proposal that has to do with the fact that working in detention should also be rewarding. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the tendering of work in detention because of costs results in penitentiary establishments failing to take orders from companies in their own environment;]] [[Whereas products made in detention should be available for sale on a larger scale and should be more accessible;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways in which penitentiary establishments will be given more opportunities to contract clients in its own environment;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible for products manufactured under In-Made to be offered for sale to individuals, companies and (public) bodies, among others, more large-scale and more low-threshold products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34068-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u132	Today I started a general discussion on organised crime. During that consultation, Mr Segers of the Christian Union pointed out that he and a number of other colleagues are in the Chamber for exactly 1,001 days today. It's like a thousand-and-a-night fairy tale, but it probably won't always have been. I congratulate my colleagues. I would like to point out that a number of other colleagues, such as Mrs Helder and Mr Schouw, are in the Chamber today for exactly five years. I haven't seen anything like this before. And this is the second time we've had a debate on a bill that may not make it in the Upper House. If this is the trend, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u133	Today I too spend exactly five years in the Chamber. I would also like to congratulate the other colleagues and now give the floor to Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr. Chairman. That thousands first night we are not going to make it tonight, I think; at least at home, but not here I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u135	That seems to me to be an excellent objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mr. Chairman. In the spring we discussed the matter in detail with the two leaders. At the time, the CDA was very critical of the two legislative proposals. The CDA's objection focused on the rate of collection. There are start-up losses in the first years after entry into force. There are concerns about the indirect consequences, particularly in the area of recurrent and re-socialisation. There is also the importance or actually the lack of actual work within detention to pay back the costs. People are burdened with more costs or debts than they go into detention with. There are also concerns about how the legislative proposals will pass the judicial test. In addition, the Court more often mentions that municipalities will have to pay for any increase in debt relief. We have seen the infamous letter of May 22nd. There was a great deal of talk in it, but not on the thorny issues that I have just mentioned. Tonight, both heads of government have been enthusiastic but, as far as I am concerned, not sufficiently convincingly indicated what is going on. The Minister screened figures in his letter and pointed out that half of the prisoners were in detention for less than a month and therefore had to pay less than €500. Of course, that doesn't pay off. It is without prejudice to the fact that nearly 11,000 prisoners with a debt of between €1,500 and €12,000 go to prison. Given the risk of recidivism, especially in the case of debts, the CDA Group is surprised that the cabinet is apparently increasing that risk on sale. I think it's hard to go to work when you come out of prison with a criminal record. The Ministry has calculated the percentage of ex-convicts with an income. This income will often be a benefit, in which people have to tarnish to make ends meet. If they also have to pay a sum to the Ministry for their conviction, prosecution and detention, it will be very difficult. The question that arises to me is, therefore, what is the purpose of this legislation? It has always been said that the polluter pays principle is at stake. That principle can count on the sympathy of the CDA. We also think that if you pull some shit, you're gonna have to take the fall for it. But people aren't supposed to get out of prison much worse. They've been punished. If you can't re-socialize and get even more debts, that's just trouble. The Minister has always said that the balance is 60 million. That gives me the impression that this is a budgetary story rather than a basic story. Then there is the collection rate, which Mr Schouw has already asked questions about. 14% has always been mentioned. The Secretary of State is now a little clearer about that and says that it has been carefully assessed, because you never know how things are going. However, what is likely to be much more remains unclear. Then working in detention. There are large differences between the Netherlands and abroad. The system in the Netherlands is not equipped for the entry into force of both legislative proposals. In the Netherlands, 60% to 70% of prisoners work up to half a day. Their compulsory contribution to the stay in the establishment would therefore be higher than what they could earn on average per week. That just means that their debt is increasing. We don't have to be interesting or complicated about that. The comparison with abroad does not apply, says the Secretary of State. It looks at someone's earning capacity: if someone can do something right, they can work, and some prisoners don't work. They also have to pay there after their detention. So if you have money, you can pay. If you don't have any money, it might be forgiven. I keep thinking it's a complicated system. It is very complex, with a lot of civil service and checking whether it can be forgiven or whether someone can pay a little. This raises the question of whether the educational and fundamental element is being taken into account. If you have to pay a few euros and you don't have it wide, I think you feel that, but then the question is whether that really assumes the effect that the rulers have in mind. Let's talk about the role of the judicial test. I think it's underrated. I have discussed this with a number of judges after the first term. They say: certainly in criminal matters, it is our job to take account not only of the facts and circumstances, but also of the person responsible. As the Minister as a former attorney himself knows, all lawyers will put up a standard defense and say: if my client has to be in prison for so many years, he will have to pay so much extra. Judges can then take that into account. In general, they will. I am sorry to say the following about Mrs Rebel's amendment, because I like it. I also think that she is right in saying that this group is already having a hard time and cannot afford it, and so it goes for the form. But I think judges will impose isd if someone keeps coming back into the penal sector for minor property crimes. At some point you will arrive and less attention will be paid to the registry rights and detention costs. Finally. The attitude of the executives can be seen when it comes to municipal debt relief. The cabinet will be responsible for almost 11,000 prisoners leaving prison with enormous debt. The cabinet has agreed to start monitoring, but I don't think you need a monitor or a glass ball to see for yourself that this isn't gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear, I'm not a grade fetishist, but I still feel the urge to share a few figures with you, like the Secretary of State, who did. In the letter we have just received from the cabinet, I read that half, 50%, of the prisoners are paid less than €500. I also read that half, let me be precise: 42% of the convicted will not be paid more than €518. I also read that half, let me be precise: 45% of the prisoners have no or less debts than €1,000. I also read in the letter that only 3% of all prisoners are at risk of having to pay the maximum amount of €11,500. Of course, they're in control of that risk themselves. Eventually, the criminal himself chooses to break the law. And 9% of the convicted are at risk of having to pay the maximum contribution for the transit fee in criminal proceedings costs at €2,760. I note that the total is EUR 60 million for the State, society. In other words, the amount of EUR 60 million will no longer have to be paid by the taxpayer out of his own pocket, but will be contributed by the prisoner or convicted person himself to what he himself has voluntarily chosen. I'll draw a parallel. Suppose I decided to go away with my family for the weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u138	I see that Mr Schouw wishes to interrupt, but I would ask him to wait until Mr Van Oosten has finished his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u139	I'm gonna go to Germany and rent a hotel there. I'll pay for the room and board I enjoy there. That's perfectly normal. No one in this room would feel normal if I didn't pay for it. I think it is perfectly fair, logical and normal that anyone who deliberately chooses to break our law, who deliberately chooses to go to prison on the instructions of the State to pay the costs. The parallel with my weekend away does not go entirely, because I pay all hotel charges based on my own choice, while the prisoner pays €16, while it costs the State €280. The prisoner must be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr Schouw has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u141	I was still sitting with that comparison with that hotel, but it turned out not to go all the way later. Has Mr Van Oosten received any information about the contribution of others, who, in addition to direct costs and revenues, also referred to indirect costs, in particular social costs? People get more debts. That leads to recidivism. The cost of society is increasing; it will run in tens of millions, but it is not written down, of course, because that is not conducive to the adoption of the bill. But there are costs. I say this to the former municipality leader, who I think has often had to do with social costs. How does the VVD Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u142	I can give a very long or very short answer to that. Of course, I choose the latter. I believe that the Minister spoke about the cost of implementation of around 6 million. I indicated that about half of all inmates have no debts or a debt of less than €1,000. So all the others have more. I have read it in the documents, but the Secretary of State also said just now that payment arrangements and so on are being made in a very chic manner. They can even result in a waiver. I give it to you on a sign that there are very few organizations in the country where you can voluntarily order or buy something that offers something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u143	The Minister and now Mr Van Oosten forget that these 6 million implementation costs are an estimate. They also forget to mention the other 6 million for introduction costs. That's 12 instead of 6, but good... Mr Van Oosten suddenly pleads for exception and remission rules and I know what else. I get it: that's to get the Labour Party with. But surely it is not the VVD's to create all kinds of separate regulations and exceptions and categories? A whole bureaucracy is about to be rigged in order to greatly mitigate the impact of the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u144	The aim of this law is to stop society from taking full responsibility for the costs incurred by those who have condemned an independent judge for having gone wrong. In my first contribution, I have also said that I do not close my eyes to the complexity of the implementation, but I do not use it as an argument to be against the law. In your reply I heard that back, but I would say that it only supports my plea that not only the VVD but also D66 should be in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u145	Let me go back to Mr Van Oosten's calculation. He says 45% pays less than €500. Quickly calculated: 45% is about 10,000 inmates and that means we reach €500,000. The other 55% group consists of 11,000 people who go to prison with heavy debts. These people do not get a job, they get a benefit, and then they end up in debt relief. The Minister says: we will see what they can still pay; that is all calculated. Of course, that's peanuts. It is 11,000 peanuts and the question is whether these proposals will enable us to raise 60 million after deduction of the cost. I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u146	You don't believe it. I read it in the law. I also read it in the letter we received on 22 May. I see Mr Schouw nodding: I mention the right date. I don't doubt that. I am not going to close my eyes to complexities. I am saying this now, and I have said this before, but I do not doubt the accuracy of the figures I read there. I would just like to point out that we should not act on whether the greatest possible debt will be transferred to people who choose to make the mistake on their own. That is not the case, and that is why I would just like to mention those figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr. Chairman. As a youngest servant, let me first congratulate the jubilant colleagues. It's a huge achievement. Respect for that! My party will support the bill. In the first period, I indicated why we are doing so. Above all, we are concerned that part of the costs should not be borne by society. In the first period, I mentioned a large number of concerns. These points mainly touched on the risk of re-socialization problems. I do not go into the figures in detail, but it is clear from the letter of amendment that only a small group is at risk of doing so. But that is where my party's concerns remain. We are particularly concerned about that small group of 3% or part of that 3%. Contrary to what the Minister said in his introduction, I think we can assume that it is not a choice of these people but a result of a disease. That's what I've just learned a little bit more about. They will really run into negative effects on resocialization. I am once again in favour of the amendment I have tabled on this subject. We will not bring in this group with the exemption scheme as regards its own contribution. So you may wonder if it makes sense to make a payoff arrangement and to try to get money out of this group by hanging and strangling in those five years. The money involved in the cost of implementation could be used much better by investing it in their minimum chance of resocialisation. I wanted to say this again. I welcome the evaluation mentioned in the letter of amendment and the annual monitor. This monitor is now primarily focused on the collection. Does it not make sense to draw them a little bit wider and to also bring with them signals from the probation, the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the social care system in order to at least have an insight into the possible effects of their own contribution on the socialisation, I ask the directors. Furthermore, I think it is important that we also look closely at the consequences for the family. The Secretary of State has responded to this. I took a quick look at the child check he was referring to. There's nothing in there about the post-detention period. That is why I would like to call on the Secretary of State to include this with the VNG and with the after-care coordinator, who is not for nothing called 'after-care coordinator'. The care of children and the question of their social isolation is also important to my party. I hope for support for the amendment, let me say that again. I also hope to have made clear what the law should look like as far as our party is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u148	I was wondering whether a majority in the Chamber for the amendment is conditional on the approval of the PvdA Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u149	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking both directors, on behalf of the entire group of the SGP, for the passionate and thorough response. I had intended to take this opportunity to make strong statements, since I have to replace Mr Van der Staaij. But unfortunately, it slides. That is no longer possible for me. So I'm gonna lay low. A few lines stand out as a substitute. On the one hand, there is the sympathetic thought that the person concerned pays. He is responsible for it, and that may be expressed. That is a line of thought that certainly supports the SGP. On the other hand, I notice the enormous complexity of the implementation and I ask myself questions about the feasibility and the amounts that go on. I think there's gonna be other numbers if you figure it all out. This means that I am not yet taking a position on this bill on behalf of the SGP. In the group we want to get things straight. Then we will decide our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u151	Before we close the second term of the Chamber, Mrs Helder has a short request. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u152	Mr. Chairman. On second thought, I would like to withdraw one motion, namely the motion on item No. 13, by bill 34067. I would like to announce that I will put this in an amendment. I will delete the contribution of minors' parents. What my group wants to achieve for adolescents, those between 18 and 23 years of age, I shall put in an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u153	Since the Helder motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u154	I ask the spokesmen to take their seats again. The hope was just expressed that we could conclude this before 11 p.m. That seems to me to be a good goal. It's in your hands, of course. Seven motions have been tabled, there are still a few questions and an amendment has been announced. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the Chamber who have all expressed their appreciation for the fact that the Secretary of State and I are enthusiastically defending this bill. We are doing this because we really believe in the principle, with which we have heard Parliament's assent, that it is a good thing for people who make choices that lead to huge costs being incurred by society to pay for them. We then entered into a discussion on how this is to be worked out in detail. With a number of spokesmen there is something that I would like to put on the table. This was the case with Mrs Kooiman and Mr Schouw. In words, very explicit reference was made to one of the two legislative proposals, namely: what does it do for the vulnerable group of ex-convicts who, after their imprisonment, face higher debts than they might have had before detention? What I hear very little is objections to the other group. This is made up of those who do not receive prison sentences, are convicted of criminal offences, simply have a job or benefit and are perfectly capable of contributing. I get the feeling that spokesmen have been looking at this in particular, and I really appreciate it, because it is a vulnerable group of people who are looking at the bill submitted by the Secretary of State, the detention scheme, and that they have taken the same line as the bill tabled by me, which looks at the costs of criminal proceedings and the contribution to victim care. I would like to ask the groups, especially those who have already made a statement and who have supported the second proposal with reservations, to reconsider whether they have not over-focused on the more vulnerable target group than on the first target group. I note that both legislative proposals have been included in the budget of this year and next year and that when one or both legislative proposals are rejected there will be consequences for the budget of my department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u156	You can see what a good political nose this minister has, because it is of course the intention of this Chamber to play the Minister and the Secretary of State directly against each other. It is good that the Minister emphasizes that. He must have noticed that there is another, more fundamental, point behind it. At least that is the case for my group. My group would have liked to see some other groups having some reservations, too, in my opinion, I should like to say in all kindness that this Chamber could have considered the German model, in which the judge takes the case and in which the income dependency can be taken into account, and the model presented here by the Minister. If we were more involved in the choice of models at the front, this might have helped. That didn't happen. It's a bit of talking afterwards, but since the Minister was so open and honest, I also thought I should let him know what we just exchanged in the coffee room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u157	I appreciate that very much. I note, moreover, that if the technical objections had been raised, I would not have felt in the Chamber a unanimous opinion that could have been resolved by means of an amendment. Then we could have had the debate on that. I myself do not think that the suggestions put forward by Mr Schouw are in line with the principles chosen by the Secretary of State and I for these legislative proposals: a simple regulation which does not entail any major costs, so it is not income-dependent and certainly not the German model, because it accounts for a much larger amount of people. We have opted for a reasonable and well-balanced arrangement, for on the one hand the costs of litigation and the costs of victim care and, on the other hand, the costs of detention. That principle is the basis of both legislative proposals. I repeat that these are really two different legislative proposals. I have heard more or perhaps even only objections to the bill of detention costs, which I am very much in favour of, than to the other bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u158	Let us recall what is likely to be put to the vote next week. Those are two legislative proposals which are based on two similar principles. Of course, one of the legislative proposals, precisely the legislative proposal that the Minister is defending, has an additional element, namely the contribution to victim care. I'll just mention it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u159	Thank you. I have also opened the debate with the point that the consequence of not adopting the first legislative proposal will be that the additional 5 million covered in the budget will not be available for victim care. I would personally regret that very much, because I think that this amount of victim care is in itself appropriate. As you know, there is no room to cover this in any other way within the budget. I am happy to give this consequence to all those parties who are quite rightly often in discussions with the government about the care of victims. This could perhaps help to revise the positions on one or both of the legislative proposals, including, of course, the second one, supported by victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u160	I'm tired of these threats. The cabinet has fought all these proposals to the Chamber in one pan and then we are dealing with this. This argument does not count. Then the ruler should have come up with a different proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u161	I don't understand the word "threat." I'm just talking about a consequence. It's not a threat, it's just a fact. You can't threaten with that. What do you mean in one pan to the room? We have sent two legislative proposals which are consistent with each other to the Chamber in a practical way. It's two separate legislative proposals. The House is going to vote on it separately and separate amendments and separate motions have been tabled. Aparter than this, even the SP can't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u162	There are actually three proposals in two legislative proposals. The cabinet offered this to the Chamber as a whole. Now we're dealing with all that right here on the spot. The directors have had two months to come up with a different solution. They didn't take care of that, and now we're stuck with the fried pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u163	I do not quite understand this from Mrs Kooiman. I've been in your room for 12 hours, and I'm happy to do it. This afternoon, not too long ago, I defended two legislative proposals which were tabled in the same way and which are exactly the same, with different amendments. There was no sound from the SP fraction that would be wrong. Now Mrs Kooiman has come up with a big accusation that this is not the way to do it. We do that every day, we do it today for the second time. There's no problem dealing with a law like that. This also means that there will be a separate vote. All I can tell you is what the consequences of voting against both legislative proposals are. For the first legislative proposal, this will mean that the contribution to victim care will be lost. That's just a fact. I now come to Mrs Helder's motion for a resolution which calls for the own contribution to be accumulated. Mrs Helder knows that I have already indicated in the debate with her that I am not in favour of this, because the costs do not double in all cases, because it will entail additional costs and implementation costs and because it is, on balance, much more complicated than what is proposed. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mrs Helder's second motion has been withdrawn, I understand. With regard to the first part, Mrs Helder said that, even if they were to be sentenced under juvenile law, adolescents should be eligible for the contribution to the costs of the proceedings and to the care of victims. That is a choice and that choice was not made by the government in that way. We believe that the contribution scheme should not apply if the judge and the prosecutor consider that someone is eligible for juvenile justice. Mrs Helder is right to say that 18-year-olds are entitled to make all the decisions he wants and can provide for his own income. He is also eligible for independent income schemes, driving licences, etc., and why should he not be able to contribute to the cost of victims? If that becomes the amendment that Mrs Helder will be tabling, I will leave it to the House to decide in this area, because it is a choice. As far as the parental contribution is concerned, I have already explained that I am not in favour of the second part. I should advise against that if that were to become part of the amendment. But that's totally withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u164	I can give the Minister some clarification on that. In my motion I removed the second paragraph and it remains to be seen that adolescents are persons aged 18 to 23, who are entitled to vote, may have a driving licence, etc., and that it is therefore incomprehensible that they should not be referred to their own responsibility in the context of this legislative proposal in the sense that they too should not provoke a criminal response. The explanatory memorandum states that this is at the heart of this legislative proposal. So that's what it's gonna look like. Maybe that'll shed some light.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u165	That then comes as an explanation in an amendment which regulates it legally. I would be happy to assist Mrs Helder in this if that is considered desirable. If that is the amendment, I shall leave it to the Chamber. In her motion in part No. 14 asks Mrs Helder that a court should not consider a contribution. Mrs Helder understands that for reasons relating to the trias politicians, among others, I will find it difficult to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. The court imposes a penalty within the framework of the law and according to the circumstances of the case. The contribution itself is not a penalty factor, is not punitive in character, and for that reason it would be unreasonable to assume that the judges would have different judgements. As far as that would be the case, it's up to the judge. That's why I have to discourage the motion. In her motion, Mrs Kooiman comes to item No. 15 with the phenomenon of "packing rooms." That word has not been raised until very little throughout the debate, until Mrs Kooiman tabled this motion. I find it a bit difficult, because I am pleased that you are tabling a motion during the debate on the subject on which the debate is concerned. Apart from the fact that the Chamber has the complete freedom to put forward motions on which it would like to make such motions, I do not think that it should be possible, as a minister, to hold the debate on them. I can't do that right now. I am prepared, on my own, to examine with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice whether there would be a need for special packing rooms, as Mrs Kooiman says. I would therefore ask her to hold the motion or withdraw it. If Mrs Kooiman does not do so, I would advise against the motion because I do not think it is appropriate for the debate to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u166	This concerns the motion on item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u167	The fact that it does not fit in with the debate is an improper use of rejecting or rejecting a motion. I mentioned the term 'take away' in my first and second term, and I have had doubts whether I would now table the motion or in the legislative consultation. But even then, the minister may have been overwhelmed by this genius instinct of mine. He says: I want to talk to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Council for Justice. That's exactly what the motion is asking, so I think it's a bit of a weird judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u168	That is why I ask Mrs Kooiman to hold the motion. If she does not, then my personal opinion is that I should discourage the motion because of its alien character, but it is up to the Chamber to do what is done with it. However, I really think that the motion is quite understandable when we are debating pick-up legislation, take-off and take-away rooms, but that the word "pack-away room" does not have a role in terms of a contribution scheme for costs of litigation, victim care and inmates. Moreover, I have repeatedly pointed out that taking away is not in itself a solution to the problems that lie on the table here. It doesn't make people any better. Similarly, the proceeds are generally not collected in a structural manner. Nor do they lead to a change in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u169	I understand that you both would like to talk about packing rooms and that the Minister is prepared to probe things. Maybe the Minister can tell us when he'll come to the Chamber with information on that. Then Mrs Kooiman can see whether she wishes to hold her motion until then or whether she still wishes to table it. This may also have something to do with the time limit on which the Minister intends to return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u170	It's only a short time until the recess, so I'm gonna put this issue on the table at my next meeting with the Justice Council and with the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then I'll ask if there's a need. When that's done, I'll inform the Chamber. That won't be before the recess. That'll be after recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u171	Shall we see if it is possible right after the recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u172	I would like to say 'just after the recess', but if those conversations are not scheduled within that period because of the recess, then I have now made a commitment that I cannot live up to. I'd hate to hear that. I assure Mrs Kooiman that I will inform the Chamber shortly after both talks have taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u173	I'm looking at Mrs. Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u174	At least that's for the kerstreces, but I'm saying that more funnyly, because I talk to both parties on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u175	In the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u176	If at least it's for the budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u177	Before the leaves fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u178	Before the budget is prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u179	As far as the budget is concerned, I think it is logical, because I am speaking for the budget with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Council for the case-law on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u180	Well, that's how we got out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u181	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u182	At the request of Mrs Kooiman, I propose her motion (34067, No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u183	I am delighted to hear that from Mrs Kooiman. Then I will conclude with regard to the bill that I am standing here for. I strongly recommend to the Chamber, but also wholeheartedly, to reconsider the consequences of not adopting the bill, but also the principle behind it. I commend the members of the Chamber to discuss this in depth with their group. In the meantime, I would like to thank the parties and spokesmen who have already expressed their support for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u184	Then I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State. If I am correct, he will deal with the motions on part Nos. 11 to 14 relating to file number 34068.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the motions, I would like to make two more comments. Firstly, there is a lot of talk about complexity. I would like to say something positive about it, including for those who have drafted it. That complexity exists, but it's not really in the scheme. That arrangement is quite clear. The CAK is also very well equipped to deal with that. There will be a lot of complexity when you look at whether there will be many differences in execution. Yes, it will be, but that complexity is not so much in the scheme. He's in practice, in life. That doesn't make it any less complex, so that can still be a major problem for someone, but I can't eliminate the complexity through the scheme. Secondly, the remark was made that many people only have to pay €500. If 10,000 people have to pay €500, which is not an unrealistic estimate, then that is 5 million. I don't have them every day. That seems to me to be a substantial yield. Then I come to the motions, first of all to the Helder motion in part No. 11 on measures to start collecting in monthly instalments. We have already had an exchange of views on this. I'll be consistent and dissuade her. Most of the prisoners are unable to pay during detention. There's no income you could afford to pay for that either. In any case, that is very limited. In practice, someone might start paying sooner. I do not think it is appropriate to make a complex arrangement for this. Of course, someone who already has the opportunity to pay during detention, save it and immediately after the detention, if the invoice is there, can make the payment. The second motion by Mrs Helder, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian I would advise against this motion because I would have to add something, for example the provision that someone will have to pay after two years, because after that period we know for sure that the maximum time limit will be reached if we start billing. In practice, there will be an invoice, but it will be very difficult to collect it. This should be done on the basis of existing assets, because there is no income. However, the number of cases to which this relates is very small and is not proportionate to the practical burden involved. Although I understand and support the idea behind the motion, I must discourage the motion for practical reasons. In the motion in part No. 13, also tabled by Mrs Helder, the government is asked to arrange for detainees with part of the earned labour costs to contribute to the costs of their detention. Here again, what I said about the motion on item No. 11. The envisaged arrangement is too complex to implement it already during detention. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 13. In the motion in part No. 14 Ms Kooiman asked the government to examine the possibility of offering more large-scale products. To put it mildly, I can go along with the motion, but we already know what is possible unless we change the procurement rules. However, I do not foresee the latter. Then it turns out that we are doing what we can do within the possibilities that exist. We are indeed limited by the procurement laws. In order to avoid an unnecessary investigation of which we already know the outcome, I would advise against the motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u186	As I understand it, not all possibilities are used. I am thinking of offering equipment that detainees make to individuals, which is also included in the motion. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with a vision of how we could make working in detention more profitable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u187	Yes, I do. We have mapped out the possibilities in this area. We are currently looking at how we can make improvements. I'll certainly inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u188	If that's possible for the budgetary procedure, I'd be happy to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u189	I was inclined to say with the minister: if the leaves fall. At home, however, I have a rather poorly functioning plant that leaves fall from every day, so that's a bad deadline. To be honest, I do not know whether I can present a vision with improvements for the budget debate. I cannot guarantee that this vision for budgetary treatment is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u190	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Kooiman. The votes are not until Tuesday. Perhaps the Secretary of State could give further consideration to the possibility of presenting the vision requested for the budget debate to the Chamber before Tuesday. Mrs Kooiman may then decide whether she wishes to hold her motion or be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u191	Let's keep it exciting for a while. I come to Mrs Rebel's questions about investigations, debts and recidivism. As far as possible, the WODC will conduct a study on the feasibility of the link in 2015. In the monitor aftercare that is one of the basic conditions to measure. We must therefore first consider to what extent it is possible to do so in a decent manner before we can assess whether it is feasible to do so periodically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u192	I see that Mr Van Oosten wishes to intervene, but I suggest that Mrs Rebel responds first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u193	Of course, Mr Van Oosten is allowed to intervene earlier. I suggest that interested parties, such as parole, should be asked to include the effects of their own contribution in their annual reports or their monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u194	That is why we are conducting a feasibility study on the link between the monitor aftercare and the repeat monitor. However, I would first like to wait for the research of the WODC to come to terms with the 'W' because I want to know first whether we can really measure and establish a proper link. We may be able to detect correlations, but here we are looking a little bit more for causality. I would first like to await the feasibility study, in order to assess whether it is possible to measure in a scientific way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u195	We understand that the Secretary of State would like to have the scientific basis for this. I think this is the absolute preference. Nevertheless, this is a measure that may have an effect on the field. The field can detect the first possible signals. So I think it would be a good idea to ask the field to send out signals it receives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u196	Yeah, this will definitely be the subject of conversation. We also always ask municipalities to provide this data with the monitor aftercare, although we do depend on the extent to which they do so. Scientifically, more municipalities that provide figures are also beneficial. Then the validity of what we extract is also greater. I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u197	Mr van Oosten, you had to wait for it, but now you have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u198	I also got out of my chair a little late because I was chewing on Mr Helder's motion on part No. 13. It calls on the government to organize that prisoners (part of) turn in the wage they earn within the prison gate as a contribution to their detention. I can see why it doesn't fit into the system of the bill. As far as that is concerned, I can understand why the Secretary of State is not recommending this motion. However, he also said that he found that idea too complex. I wonder if he's saying that because of the thought behind it or because of the complexity of the bill. What's that look like? Does that see fit into the bill or does it see the thought behind it as such?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u199	If you really want to make it possible for someone to pay, then of course you have to give the payment title already. This means that I have to send a first invoice periodically, in between, after a week or three: at least you have been sitting for three weeks, so you can start paying for it. How long someone really sits down, on the day after I need to know that in order to be able to make the final invoice, I can't know yet. So I'm introducing extra administrative burdens. I'll be organizing extra bills. Of course, this is not entirely in line with the objective of implementing it as simply as possible. In addition, the practical effect will be rather limited, as the income that can be generated during detention is very low.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u200	So it's practically clumsy and it doesn't match the income that can be earned. In addition, it is also administratively very unfortunate, because it leads to all kinds of additional burdens. I would like to ask this in order to give a good opinion to my group on Mr Helder's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u201	Yes. There will also be a group that may receive money from others from outside. They can choose to work on keeping the invoice as low as possible during the detention period or better: the claim they receive immediately after their detention. I think that people who want to be so actively involved in this are also able to put the money in a savings account and then pay the bill immediately after the detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u202	This raises another question from Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u203	What the Secretary of State said at the end is exactly what I wanted to say. What he said before is not in the operative part. It says: "Asks the government to arrange that inmates with (part of) the earned wage contribute to the costs of their detention." I didn't say that should happen every month. The motion simply states that with what they earn with their work during detention, they pay their own contribution. So you could just put that in an account and, if you leave the gate, pay a part of your own contribution with what you have put away from the money. The motion for a resolution certainly provides for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u204	That's possible, but that last motion is not necessary. If I really make it possible for someone to pay during detention... Look, put it on an account and then, when the invoice comes, use that spared to meet a large part, I welcome it. But for that, I don't have to change the arrangement. You can do that now. If you really want someone to be able to use some of the money to pay during detention, then I will have to create something of an intermediate invoice, otherwise I will get another undue payment, which will then be parked again until there is a title and a claim with an invoice. That makes it a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u205	Since that is not in the motion and I did not ask for it, perhaps it could be a consideration to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u206	Yes, but then it becomes superfluous, because that possibility already exists: people can already save, put money in their accounts. They're free to decide how they do it. I don't have to make that possible anymore if it's possible. The judgment will remain the same. Mrs. Rebel's last question is about what I'm going to do to the municipal coordinator aftercare. It is important to continue to say where the responsibility lies. It stays with the municipalities. I can't decide for them how to fill that role. At the autumn meeting of the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security, I will, together with the VNG, focus on the subject and thus encourage municipalities to decide to make it a more prominent part. That brings me to the end of my speech. I thank the Chamber for a pleasant debate in my view. I believe that we share a great deal of concern, but there are differences of opinion as to the extent to which this legislative proposal adequately addresses concerns. It is, of course, up to the Chamber whether it decides to support both or one of the two legislative proposals. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-7.u207	Vote on the motions and the amendments will take place next Tuesday.
