ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u1	Mr. Chairman. It is a fervent desire of the CDA Group to establish a pilot with regular schools: less administrative burdens, fewer rules that hinder schools from providing good education. I suggest I thank the Secretary of State for starting a pilot like that. Hail for that. But he wants to limit himself to schools that are excellent, which have the "excellent school" label, even though that is not something that fits within the valuation framework of the inspection. Like a number of other parties, the CDA thinks it would be better to broaden this pilot. That is why, on behalf of the groups of D66, SP and SGP, I am tabling the following motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only schools with the designation "excellent school" may participate in the pilot regular schools;]] [[having also noted that PO Council, VO Council and all profile and management organisations are asking for wider admission conditions to the pilot regular schools;]] [[noting that schools which have been granted the basic arrangement comply with the legal requirements and that the returns are of sufficient level;]] [[Whereas a more varied field of participants in the pilot could also lead to a better understanding of where fewer rules can lead to better quality of education and more satisfaction;]] [[calls on the Government, including schools which have been granted the basic arrangement by the inspection, to participate in the pilot regular schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Siderius and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29546-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Slow schools, I don't think anyone's against it. We have asked the Secretary of State if it is possible to experiment within this experiment with not taking the final test. The Secretary of State wasn't excited about that yet. However, while we are experimenting, the SP thinks it should give schools the opportunity to do so. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government still intends to impose rules on the obligation of the final test in primary education;]] [[considers that taking a final test is not necessary to give good school advice;]] [[Considers that regular schools are ideally the place to launch an experiment to put an end to the testing culture in education, in addition to the regulatory pressure;]] [[calls on the Government, as an experiment in the conditions of admission of regular schools, to include that these schools are free not to take the final test and to find other ways to obtain sound school advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29546-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u3	We hope, of course, that this motion will be widely supported, so that we can take another step closer to dealing with the settlement culture in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. I am merely here to support Mr Rog's motion, which has also been tabled on behalf of D66 and other parties. If you're going to a bank these days and you want a mortgage or another loan, you have to basically prove that you don't need it and then you can get the money. That's also the feeling that creeps me out here. You have to be excellent first, and then we're gonna let go of the rules. The reasoning of D66 is exactly the opposite. We believe that it is precisely the lack of transparency that can lead to schools and teachers feeling much more space and thereby becoming excellent. Lawlessness leads to excellence and not vice versa. What have we learned after this experiment if we only allow excellent schools? So what are we gonna do? Are we going to abolish rules until we meet a school that is suddenly no longer excellent and do we have the crucial rule? It is completely unclear to me what you ultimately know after an experiment with releasing rules for excellent schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is very pleased with the pilot regular schools. We look forward to the results. We know that there is a lot of support in the field for this pilot. The Labour Party attaches importance to the fact that the schools participating in the pilot are a good reflection of the schools in the Netherlands. We would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State how diverse the schools are with the predicate "excellent', for example when it comes to base, size and region, white and black schools, whether there is practical education etc. We would like to insist that the group be as diverse as possible, so that it reflects the schools properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u6	I would like to put a brief question to Mrs Ypma. She wants a pilot with support, which gives a broad picture. That is quite right; so do I. Is Mrs Ypma aware that in fact all the organisations in education have asked for this pilot to be extended to schools with a basic arrangement and not limited to schools with an "excellent" designation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u7	Yeah, I'm aware of that. I think this pilot is very important. It may well be that we will draw great conclusions from this. It is therefore also important that you do not take unnecessary risks. That is why it is logical that additional quality checks should be released in the schools that are allowed to participate in this pilot. After all, we are going to establish proper derogation powers, for example in the area of care for sick pupils, the content of education, time of education, reporting on the progress of pupils, the fusion test, competence requirements and development prospects. We could let go of all these points for these schools. If you do that at every school in the Netherlands, you are experimenting with students in our view. So you can make a number of demands on this. We think it is logical for the Secretary of State to state: this is just a pilot, and that is why we are making a number of demands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u8	I'm asking one follow-up question. Doesn't Mrs Ypma think that the image, the proceeds of the pilot, is more relevant when you allow a greater variety of schools to participate, schools that you know, by the way, that they have their quality in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u9	That is what you are guaranteeing precisely by the demand made by the Secretary of State and by combining it with what I put forward, namely that it must be a diverse reflection of schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u10	I would like to ask Mrs Ypma the same question as I asked the Secretary of State. Suppose we are doing an experiment with only schools with the predicate "excellent," what have we learned afterward if this is successful, and how can we apply it to schools in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u11	I thank Mr Van Meenen for this question. With this pilot, we are going to look at what it means for the quality of education if we abandon to a large extent the demands that now apply to schools. I am very curious to see what this means for quality, because on this basis we can take a number of steps in the future. However, you must be sure that in the period when the pilot is being run, it cannot be at the expense of the quality of education for our children, because we will never, ever agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u12	But that's highly odd, isn't it? We then enter into an experiment with which we look at the effect on quality, whereas we only do so with schools that already have the highest quality. What could that effect be? So it can only go down. That's strange, isn't it? You would like to know what the effect is on schools which do not yet meet those higher quality criteria. What's the effect on these schools if you let go of rules? Does Mrs Ypma agree with me that it is totally pointless for schools of the highest quality to abandon the criteria to see what that does with quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u13	No, I disagree with Mr Van Meenen. I'll turn it around. Imagine if you start experimenting in this way at a school with not such a high quality and lower the quality of education for those students even further, then you come to an unacceptable level of educational quality. We do not want to experiment with students in the Netherlands. That is why we have so far been able to agree with the conditions laid down by the Secretary of State. We would also like to add that the group of schools participating in this pilot should be as diverse as possible so that we can have a good reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. There is great interest in the field of education for this experiment for law-abiding schools. That's great, but a small group of schools can participate in this experiment. After all, it's just an experiment. The many questions that come to us from the field of education about this experiment show two things about the VVD. First of all, there is a great deal of ignorance in education about the experimental possibilities that are already there and the scope that already exists to shape educational innovation. There is a lot of information available, but apparently it is not sufficiently known to the people who work in education. Would it be an idea, for example, to give an interview in each po- and vo-ekblad, in which the Secretary of State indicates the possibilities for schools outside this experiment to start their education already? Thanks to the momentum that exists with this experiment, this information could well fall into fertile soil. Despite the fact that only a limited group can participate in the experiment, the results of the experiment may be interesting and relevant for other schools. That is why I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable to eliminate unnecessary regulation as much and as quickly as possible;]] [[noting that the experiment will provide insight into legislation and regulations that schools encounter in daily practice;]] [[Whereas this may also benefit schools not participating in the experiment;]] [[noting that the experiment will be monitored for the purpose of the evaluation;]] [[Invites the Government to use the monitor to present, during the pilot phase, all unnecessary and burdensome regulations identified and to assess directly to what extent they can be deleted for other parts of the educational field and to submit this assessment to the Chamber.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29546-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u15	The Secretary of State has indicated that he can immediately give his appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. I will give a very good appreciation of these motions, but first of all I would like to say a few general words about the fight against regulatory pressure. We're talking about slow schools today, but fortunately that's not all we're doing. Very recently, the Court has received a whole package of measures to combat regulatory burdens throughout education. So these have an effect on all schools in the Netherlands. We have a great deal of space for experiments in legislation and regulation, making it possible for all schools that opt for it to deviate from that. In this connection, I would like to refer to the experiments on bilingual education, which we have discussed very recently. We are also in the process of introducing differentiated supervision. This is a very important development, based on earned trust: the inspection must be on top of those schools that are not doing very well and can distance themselves more as they do better. This will also apply to the whole of education. Regular schools are something special and actually something very radical. For a select group of schools we remove all regulations, except a few very essential things, for example anchor points such as final test or final exam, while in the field of education time, powers, curriculum, inspection and supervision schools are given much more space. You have to do that for the group of schools that have earned that trust and have proven themselves in the past, which means that we dare to take our hands off it for a while. I do not quite understand Mr Rog's input. He's now saying that you should do this for all the schools under basic supervision. But he was the one who suggested this idea in November 2013 and said he wanted an experiment in which well-performing schools participating in an improvement program with collaboration, intervision, coaching, you name it, could participate. And now all of a sudden we are talking about all the schools, including those which are perhaps just inadequate or which come from a situation of weakness or weakness. I think that's really too risky. I would therefore like to stick to the proposal as I did to the Chamber, namely to look at schools that have proven themselves in the past, which show good performance, with satisfied parents, so schools that we trust will be able to take our hands off for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u17	In my turn, I don't understand the Secretary of State. He's leaving for excellent schools now. As far as I know, as a government, we have not determined what an excellent school is; this cannot be established from the inspection framework. The Secretary of State is right that I indicated earlier that I think it is a very nice suggestion that schools would do something about an improvement process, for example peer review. Is the Secretary of State prepared to open up the pilot to schools with basic arrangements in addition to the basic arrangement, with only that addition, with the addition of peer review or intervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u18	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm not prepared to do that. Mr Rog spoke in his speech about good schools, not just about peer review schools. After all, you also have schools that may be just enough and do peer review, but which are not yet a good school. Excellent schools are schools that do well, also according to the inspection. Then a jury looked at it again intensively. That jury also spoke to stakeholders and teachers. It's really schools that have been examined for a while. This shows that they are doing very well on a wide palette of fronts. Those are the schools I am saying: I dare to take everything away from them for once. It's exciting to see what happens next. I think we can learn a great deal from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u19	Then there's my follow-up question. It's a limited group of schools. I am not saying that the number of schools should be further widened, but only the target group. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the proceeds of this pilot would then be more relevant, because with a more diverse palette of schools that just have the basic arrangement, you also have a better understanding of what works and what doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u20	That seems to be a question that Mrs Ypma asked, namely whether it is a very uniform group or a broad palette. I think this is a wide range of schools. If you look at what kind of schools there are in that target group, these schools are spread throughout the Netherlands, not only geographically but also in the kind of neighbourhoods in which they are located: from the heart of Schilderswijk to Vaillantlaan to the chic Haren in Groningen. They are schools with different identities, directions and profiles. They are schools that range from practical education to categoral gymnasia. So it is a very wide range of schools, but they are all schools that have the confidence of me, that have shown that they are doing well, that have good quality systems, that have a good culture of improvement and that often have very satisfied parents and pupils. They are schools that we can say: we dare to work more horizontally, in good conversation with pupils and parents, on quality, without the inspection being on top of it in a manner of speaking, and without the need for all kinds of legislation and regulations. I think this can be a very useful experiment, which we can also learn a lot from. Mr Van Meenen asked what I think I would learn from it. Well, it's very interesting to see what the parts are that these schools take up space, a space that the law doesn't offer right now. Do they offer room for entrepreneurship, or perhaps for surprising things we never anticipated in advance? I also think that after the end of the experiment we should take a critical look at what this has done with the quality of education. But these are schools that can take a hit. They are not vulnerable schools at the bottom, which become weak to very weak as the quality gets a little less. These are schools at the top, which can have some. That is why I say that this is the group of schools that we should be dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u21	I think the Secretary of State has been a researcher in the past. So he knows that the conditions of the research must be really good and that you also need to know in advance what you really want to investigate. What we are investigating here are schools that, at least in the eyes of the Secretary of State, are at the top and what happens to them when you let go of rules. But the Secretary of State isn't just the Secretary of State for Excellent Schools, is he? At least I shouldn't hope so. He wants to learn lessons that are valid for the entire education, doesn't he? Or is that an ambition he's put behind him by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u22	It is not at all said that we cannot draw lessons that are applicable to the whole of education, because many lessons can already be learned from the way excellent schools do it. I think it is schools that are an example for a lot of other schools in the Netherlands, which show how it can be done and how it should be done. A lot of schools that may not be excellent yet, but working very hard to get good or better, can learn from that. We are now going to do something extreme, something radical, by taking away all the legislation and regulations and the guarantees it offers. These are schools that can take a swing, and we dare. These schools have already proved themselves in the past. That is a target group that, in my view, is best suited to carry out this experiment with regular schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u23	Surely the Secretary of State will agree with me that the lessons to be learned from this experiment can only relate to excellent schools and none else? That is why this experiment has not been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u24	That wasn't said at all. Perhaps things come out that do not concern all schools, but specifically practice schools, because interesting things are being invented at a number of excellent practice schools that also appear to apply to other practice schools. Why would this only apply to excellent schools? I just don't understand Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you, Mr van Meenen, this is where it ends, at least in this little debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u26	Three motions have been tabled. You will understand that I am not recommending the first motion; I have already given the reasons for it in detail. The second motion, that of Mrs Siderius, I would also advise against. Schools get a lot of freedom, even in front. Then I don't think it's wrong that you have at least one moment at the back that you want to give students. That's why the final test is important. Fortunately, the school advice for many children is adequate, but we know that the advice for about 10% of children is too low. For that I do give them the second opinion of the final test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u27	The motion also states that if schools have better ways of getting away from that final test to the school advice, they should be given that opportunity. I do not understand why the Secretary of State does not take this great opportunity and says: if we are going to experiment, let us consider what it would mean if we did not make that final test compulsory. He really should see it as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u28	I think Mrs Siderius and I simply disagree on this point. There are a few things we want to keep going. We are giving this experiment extremely much room in many other areas, but I would not like to have it on my conscience to experiment with children without knowing whether this will improve the transition to secondary education. The third motion actually supports policy. It is also a good addition that we do not have to wait until the end of the experiment if this experiment comes out of very useful things that are also applicable to the rest of the education. Let us follow this regularly, and let us learn from it regularly. As a result, I can immediately state that it seems to me a good idea to make it more visible to education and to make it clear what possibilities there are apart from this experiment to take more space and to make more use of the flexibility that exists on many other fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u29	Can I then ask the Secretary of State through you if he can promise us that he will indeed use that monitor in this way, so that we will also be informed periodically in the interim if it appears that certain rules may be removed more widely in education? If he makes that commitment, I can withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u30	I would like to make that commitment. I'll inform the Chamber about this in mid-2016. That is actually just the start of the experiment, but I would like to indicate where the participating schools explicitly want more space on which they want to prove themselves. If we let that come back every year, we can gradually see where that leads and what lessons can be drawn from it for the whole of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u31	Since the Strauss motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-10.u32	Voting on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
