ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. Europe is in mourning. Last Friday in Paris innocent people were attacked by unscrupulous barbarians. Many dead, many wounded are the result. There are also victims from our country. The attacks lead to fear and uncertainty everywhere. The soccer game Germany-Netherlands was just cancelled. They are attacks on our democracy, attacks on our freedom, attacks on our civilisation. We have no choice but to resist these attacks and win the battle. This Minister has an important role to play as politically responsible for the AIVD. The opposition has successfully reversed the cuts in the AIVD and helped to make new investments possible. Let us agree today that money does not matter, that our security is always a priority. Then the Minister can count on our support. The attacks in Paris do not seem to be incidents, but deliberate actions by international networks of organized jihadists. Good cooperation between secret services is essential to prevent such attacks. Politics seems to have penetrated this awareness in all countries, but I do not think that this is practice in all secret services either. Can the Minister assure us that recent threats will also lead to changes in secret services in Europe, that sufficient sharing and sharing of information is becoming standard everywhere, that tracking and disrupting potential attackers is not frustrated by cultural differences between secret services? Our country is also vulnerable to radicalised loners and to jihadist networks. I have asked the cabinet many times to map these networks and to indicate which Salafist organizations in our country may be involved in secretly preaching and organizing violence. I'll ask the Minister again. Is he prepared to draw up and publish a list of such organisations? It seems that at least some of the terrorists in Paris were in the picture with the secret services, the police or the ggz. More and more extremists are returning from the Middle East. Some pose a direct threat and can be dealt with directly. Others also seem to return ideologically and pose no more danger. We just don't know about another group. It's impossible to prosecute them, but irresponsible to let them go. We can force confused persons to be treated preventively if they pose a danger to themselves and others. I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to investigate whether this group of returners can be deradicalized preventively. Mayors, aldermen, council members and civil servants, too, are increasingly confronted with aggression. Discussions on the reception of refugees have increased this threat. Can we agree here that if people with a public function need our help and protection, so do they, and here too, money does not matter? In a very different area, too, the local authorities are calling the alarm bells. Home care, youth care, the fight against poverty, helping people to work, it can't be done anymore. Some aldermen have an emergency fund with which they can still take blows, but most municipalities are tearing down their reserves, if they already have one. The only answer the minister has for municipalities that are facing financial difficulties thanks to government policy is: you have to scale up, then you have to redeploy. While the minister is well aware that redefining does not generate money, but municipalities only cost money in the first few years. I would like special attention to be paid tonight to the so-called scaling-up discount. The government's policy of forcing municipalities to increase to 100,000 inhabitants is off the table, but the cuts that the minister had made and which in the long run amounts to EUR 1 billion are still in the books. Of course you can't. I therefore ask the Minister to remove this ridiculous austerity. Otherwise, I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. In general, it is very good that things are organised close to people, but precisely because municipalities are given so many new tasks, local democracy is under pressure. At present, there are more than 500 superlocal partnerships. They form a new, opaque layer of government, where local directors make many compromises about the care and support of their own residents, compromises that these local directors then have to defend in their own city council, which can usually no longer change the same agreements. Then local democracy becomes a farce. Then the people's representative becomes a public official who goes through the papers one more time. Once again, the Minister's solution, which is to redefine it, is not a solution, not a solution to the financial problems, but not a solution to the democratic deficit. Local government must be a political translation of the local community. The size of this community is different; The Hague is different from Hilvarenbeek. But that community needs to be represented. This cannot be done in municipalities that are getting bigger and bigger. Now some municipalities already have dozens of cores. Then there's just no more local democracy. I know a lot of people want to be active in their village or city to solve concrete problems, but they don't want to spend night-to-night pointless paperwork on matters that they don't have anything to say about. Local government is increasingly becoming an implementing organisation of national policy; I mentioned all the care tasks and social security. The same applies to the reception of refugees. Many citizens but also many local politicians feel attacked when plans are announced from above for the reception of large groups of refugees. If it is necessary, and if it is possible, small-scale provision must be made, which has already been cut so much, and refugees must be distributed fairly. But above all, people must be able to have a say. Their concerns must be taken seriously. How is the minister going to help these municipalities with these difficult problems? What makes local government particularly vulnerable is the threat of organised crime. Dubious figures from the building world, the financial sector and the drug world can have great interests in certain decisions that are being taken or are not being taken. How does the Minister explain the increase in mafia practices in our democracy? Can he assure us that every threat will be reported and that action will be taken on each declaration? Another thing: in 2010, this Chamber adopted the Roemernorm. No more than 10% of all personnel costs may be spent on expensive consultants. Six ministries aren't gonna do it. The Minister's Ministry does not meet this requirement either, which amounts to almost 25%. What additional measures will this Minister take to ensure that next year all ministries, including the Ministry of the Interior, are under the Roemer norm? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister the following. We are now going to have a new European referendum. In April, citizens will again be given the opportunity to make their voice heard. Can the Minister promise that there will be enough money to organise this referendum fairly and properly? I've asked before. Today, the Minister sent a letter saying something in the vein of: yes, but, I am still in consultation, perhaps the municipalities will have to set up fewer polling stations, and it can all be a bit more economical. No, it needs to be organized properly. Can the Minister also promise that the cabinet will take the outcome of this referendum seriously? How is he going to weigh up the outcome of this referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u3	Mr. Chairman. The attacks in Paris last Friday shocked us all: a brutal and cowardly attack on innocent people who did nothing more than enjoy our freedom, the freedom to visit a concert, the freedom to catch a terrace or the freedom to go to a sports game. We will continue to stand up together for our freedom and defend this freedom with each other. Unfortunately, we cannot rule out attacks such as those in Paris, but we must do everything we can to prevent them. This week we are having a separate debate on this, yet I would like to address the issue of the deployment of the security services. Last Saturday, our Prime Minister indicated in his press conference that the services were prepared for their task, that they have the resources needed and that there is constant monitoring of whether this is still the case. The cabinet confirmed this in a letter today. Therefore, I do not need to ask the Minister for a re-confirmation. However, I would like to give it to continue to monitor closely whether more effort is needed. If the security situation so requires, it must be possible to deliver. I therefore ask the Minister on behalf of the VVD Group: if this situation arises and there is a need for more budget, will there be more budget? I also ask the Minister whether the exchange of information between services at home and abroad has already improved. We discussed this earlier and the Minister made a commitment at the request of the VVD. What is the state of play now? If the exchange of information has improved, what has changed? We will have to do what is necessary without living in fear. In addition to the fact that fear is a bad counselor, it is precisely at the heart of our society that we can live without fear in freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u4	We recently asked the Minister if he could promise that if the Chamber asked for an analysis of the budgets of the AIVD by the General Court, this would also happen. The Minister replied: "if the Chamber so wishes"; it was a somewhat vague answer from the cabinet. Can I get that promise from Mr Veldman today? It may be unusual for Members of Parliament to ask each other for a commitment, but can we do so today? Can we get the commitment from the VVD Group that if we want the Court of Auditors to look at the budget of the AIVD, the Court of Auditors can do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u5	I can promise Mrs Van Toorenburg that if the cabinet says that more money is needed, there will be more money. We must not be reluctant when it comes to security. If we need more money, we need more money. To date, I have understood from the cabinet earlier that of the minister and last Saturday, our Prime Minister, who said that the services can do their job, that they are prepared to do what they have to do and that they come out with the resources that are now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u6	I understand this reaction. I think there is a great deal of reason for that. However, we read that there is a need for extra vigilance; the Minister's letter clearly states that there may be a need for tasks at the AIVD. Can Mr Veldman say that if the moment comes........ I am well aware that I am speaking in terms of words...... that we seriously doubt whether the AIVD will be able to handle its tasks, will not put the VVD in the sand, but will then agree that we should ask the independent Court of Auditors: look at this, are we mistaken, or should we have money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u7	When I read the cabinet letter today and when I look at the press conference of our Prime Minister last Saturday, my impression is that the cabinet is working in a good and serious way to keep our country safe and secure. I have that confidence. If the situation arises that additional resources should be added, because additional actions are needed where financial provision is not made, then this should be possible. The VVD Group says that if extra money is needed, then we should not make a problem of that with each other and then we should settle it with each other, because the VVD stands for that security. I will put that question to the Minister again today. If necessary, report it, then come back to the Chamber and make sure that there is a budget; the VVD will express its support for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u8	The VVD just indicated that the security services are in order. How does the VVD rhymes with the fact that the AIVD had to borrow people from the police in the past year because he was unable to follow jihad suspects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u9	I think this is a very detailed question. I cannot answer that question and I do not think that Mr Van Klaveren can either, because we are neither concerned with the personnel policy of our security services. How they deal with their people and where they get people is not up to me. It is up to me to ask whether the services can do what they have to do. I have the impression this is possible. That was said by the Prime Minister last Saturday, and the cabinet confirmed that in a letter today. If more needs to be done, more needs to be done. I'll ask the Minister to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u10	That is, of course, an absurd reaction from the VVD. It has nothing to do with being detailed in questions. How does the VVD rhyme with the fact that it is stated here that the AIVD is in order and has enough manpower with the fact that the same AIVD had to borrow people from the police last year? As far as I and my group are concerned, this means that the AIVD needs a lot more money to hire many more people. Otherwise, you don't have to borrow people from the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u11	Again, I am not dealing with the personnel policy of our security services. Where they need expertise, it is up to the management of the various security services to implement it. We should not want to do that here, because we have no idea and no idea. We must agree here that if there is to be more money, as happened this year, we will arrange it with each other. I think we can find each other in that. If at any time, tomorrow, next week, next month or next year, this Minister indicates that money will have to be added, we can say to each other: that is what we are delivering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u12	Mr. Van Raak? I don't know if you're planning to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u13	Yes, because I think it is very good that the VVD has made this turnaround. It was not so long ago that the VVD wanted to cut down almost 40% on the AIVD. Our suspicion has been confirmed by the General Court and the CTIVD. The announcement of this austerity alone has led to the disappearance of capacity and the disappearance of knowledge and skills, also specifically aimed at following radicalised individuals, jihadists. I'm glad the VVD's about to. Mr Veldman must have seen, perhaps during these attacks, but at least sooner, that attackers were always in the sight of a secret service. We cannot now see that secret services in Europe are already sufficiently working together. Unfortunately, that's what the attacks show. Does Mr Veldman see a role for the Dutch Government in Europe to ensure that these security services finally get better cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u14	I also think that I have just served Mr Van Raak by asking the Minister about the exchange of information between the various services at home and abroad. We have talked about it before, and Mr Van Raak has certainly spoken about it before; hence my question. That exchange has to be in order. What has changed, what has improved and what steps have been taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u15	The exchange of information is always a problem. With Theo van Gogh that was already a problem. We have often asked the Minister to do something about it. Every time you see that at the level of the secret services, there are conversations between directors and managers, but it doesn't happen. Perhaps this cultural change will take place at our own AIVD. However, with other secret services, for example in France, I do not yet see them as such. Does Mr Veldman agree with me that it is now a responsibility for politics, perhaps Prime Ministers, to ensure at European level that this cultural change is finally taking place in secret services?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u16	I believe that we have a task here with each other to keep the Netherlands as safe as possible. For this we have different security services and other instruments. It is up to us, together with the European partners, to ensure that information is exchanged when it is to take place. Terrorists do not stop at the border, so we must ensure that this exchange is in order. We find each other in the questions I have just asked the Minister. I can tell you that Mr Van Raak can also agree with these questions. I come to the regular points in the Home Affairs budget, for example the financial challenges facing municipalities. Last week, on behalf of 234 of their colleagues, a number of aldermen from Finance offered an open letter on their financial system. The aldermen make three requests: the removal of the scaling-up discount, the introduction of more stability and predictability in municipal budgets and a request on financial relations. I'll deal with all three. Unfortunately, as far as the scale-up discount is concerned, I cannot bring good news to the aldermen. I don't see any room to take the discount anywhere else. And yes, it is true that the intention of the government agreement to scale up to 100,000+ municipalities will not be enforced. And yes, the discount has thus become a self-contained austerity. I understand this is annoying. This is without prejudice to the fact that municipalities can continue to seek economies of scale themselves. The non-distorted scale to 100,000+ municipalities does not have to prevent municipalities themselves from seeking financial advantages through cooperation or association.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u17	Yeah, what am I supposed to do with this? Normally, in our country, in our parliament, it goes like this: you make a decision, you make a law, you make policy, and then it has financial consequences. What is happening here is that policy is not going through at all, is being deleted, there is no longer an obligation for municipalities to scale up to 100 000 tonnes, but that the austerity is simply not going to happen. With all due respect: everyone can, of course, rule the country, by throwing this kind of thing over the fence with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u18	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u19	Does Mr Veldman agree with me that investment and austerity are policy-related and not the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u20	I just said that this was initially linked to the idea that we would have to scale up to 100,000+. That obligation is over. However, in my opinion, municipalities are still free to look for economies of scale and cooperation in such a way that they are cheaper off. It's possible. As far as I am concerned, it is therefore the challenge for municipalities to find where they can achieve economies of scale and where they can work together and, if possible, combine, as happy municipalities in this country still do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u21	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u22	Those municipalities are all jammed up. They are caught between the policy of the cabinet, which throws all kinds of expensive tasks over the fence without the right investment. If they then get into financial difficulties, the Minister says they should scale up. The VVD says they should do scaling. Everyone knows, however, that reclassification and scaling up do not produce money, but costs money, at least for the first ten years. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan zeggen dat dit eigenlijk onbehoorlijk beleid is en in elk geval onbehoorlijk omgaan met onze medeoverheden, de gemeenten.]] So I can't find any support for the VVD. I hope the Minister can reassure us and that that weird discount, that cut, will go off. Otherwise, I will make a proposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u23	I don't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u24	No, me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u25	I will leave the qualifications on Mr Van Raak's behalf. I'm very curious to know where he'll be getting cover in his motion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u26	Mr Veldman says that municipalities should look at opportunities to scale up anyway, opportunities to achieve economies of scale. However, this discount is divided among all the municipalities. How should municipalities that already have 100,000+ inhabitants now seek even more economies of scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u27	Also 100,000+ municipalities can look for cooperation in many areas and can look even further at where they can get their benefits together with others. You can work together in many areas, with which it is cheaper. There are a lot of municipalities that have decided, often initiated from large municipalities, to work together, for example in the field of ICT, to take steps together, to buy things and to develop things instead of everyone doing it for themselves. Large municipalities can also take further steps with their surrounding municipalities in ensuring scaling up and doing it cheaper with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u28	Does Mr Veldman think that municipalities do not already do that? A city like Utrecht, for example, already works together with some fifteen or twenty municipalities that are around the city in a variety of fields. Where does Mr Veldman base on the fact that municipalities can cooperate even more than they already do and that this will result in a reduction of a total of 1 billion? What's he basing that on, on what facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u29	I note that we still have 393 municipalities in this country. You might wonder if you can't take that down a notch. The VVD believes that this can be reduced, that there are still opportunities for municipalities to go together and work together, so that economies of scale occur and they are cheaper out. I have also just honestly said that this scaling-up obligation is over, that it is no longer mandatory to go to 100,000+. If you want to see it that way, then it has become just a cut. That's annoying, but she's just in the books. In recent years, I believe the cabinet has bent over 52 billion. This is part of that and falls back on municipalities. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u30	It's either scaling up and cutting down or not. You can't leave one and do the other. My question is very simple: how reliable does my VVD colleague find this policy of government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u31	I'd almost like to ask another question. Can I now deduce from this interruption by Mrs Koser Kaya that D66 thinks we should scale up mandatory? I also did not see D66 repairing the cut that was made. So does D66 want to scale up mandatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u32	It's about consistency. I don't hear anything about consistency in my colleague's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u33	Mr Veldman is right to say that the coalition agreement has been undermined on this point. The mandatory scale-up for 100,000+ municipalities is no longer available. There is still a rudiment of that intention in the form of that scaling-up discount. Mr Veldman says that the discount is actually something strange, but that it is financially necessary. If we can find cover for that discount now, is Mr Veldman prepared to accept that deletion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u34	If people want to make proposals to get this scaling-up discount off the table, it will have to start by calling it a cover. I haven't heard anyone mention it. Then we are going to talk about the weighting of that coverage. For what if Mr Klein says: you know what, we're taking the money away from the security services, so at the point where I started. If Mr Klein suggests that, he will hear from the VVD: no, that does not seem to me to be a good cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u35	I would suggest that Mr Veldman take a look at the motion I tabled this afternoon in the debate on the Tax Plan. It proposes to remove this scaling-up reduction and then to properly cover it out of the 5 billion left because we are not getting out of the Tax Plan proposals together. In this way, we have properly covered the removal of that discount and nobody is missing anything. Will Mr Veldman consider that motion, in order to remove that ridicule scaling-up discount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u36	I think we'll just work it out with the Tax Plan. We've been asking a lot of people in recent years. The taxes have gone up. That is why I think it would be good if we were to lower taxes again. That's what the VVD stands for, so as far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna do that. So what Mr Klein is proposing does not seem to me to be a valid cover. I come to the point of the fluctuations in the Municipal Fund. They've always been there. Also pluses and minuses per year for specific benefits are not new. But with the aldermen, I also note that the fluctuations have been greater lately than before. I get the aldermen's signal. These fluctuations are difficult for them if they want to draw up their budget. Despite the fact that some movement in budgets is part of going up the stairs together and down the stairs, I ask the Minister to study the current fluctuations carefully, and to see if this can be made more manageable. After a few rounds of major maintenance of the Municipal Fund, I think we should conclude that the current foundations of the Financial Ratio Act have had their longest time. The rack's kind of out, you might say. I also see this in the Council's opinions on financial relations and the UNG. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to launch a review of the foundations aimed at simplifying the system and also at facilitating existing growth disparities. Because disparities in growth between regions are inevitable, as the Minister recently pointed out. We have concluded together that these inevitable growth differences can also make a difference in facilitating. Most growth is currently taking place in urban regions. I am talking not only about the urban regions in the Randstad, but also about the urban region of Zwolle, for example. The proper shaping of this growth requires something from urban regions themselves. We must abandon competition within the region. We need to work more and better together, and scale up where necessary. A revision of the Financial Relationship Act, also aimed at facilitating better than today regions that are responsible for cooperation within their own region, can help in this. I say this, bearing in mind the assignment of the Public Administration Study Group. This study group has a strong focus on economic development, with the key question: how can public administration facilitate economic growth? I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he would like to start with such a review of the foundations of the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u37	Mr Veldman makes an interesting speech with a very interesting perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u39	Does he also wish to involve in the reflection of the foundations of financial relations a shift of taxes levied by the Empire, towards taxes levied by local authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u40	Mr Bishop also knows that this was the third part of the overall tax package that was previously discussed between different parties. That didn't get any further than the first one. At the second and third parties, several parties dropped out and then it becomes difficult to give each other concrete details. With the fact that it has been discussed, I am not saying that we will never talk about it again, but there are no stories on the table and I do not see any majorities in the Chamber, with which we can come to a clear story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u41	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u42	But does Mr Veldman not agree with me that, if we look at the revision of the foundations and the financial relations between the various governments, it is precisely to keep this under review?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u43	Mr Veldman, a brief comment please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u44	I imagine we're looking at that more broadly, but I'm gonna fly it past the system we have right now. I note that the current system has 90 foundations with all kinds of complex constructions, that the great maintenance has given us something, but according to every expert the rack is actually out and we have to start again. That is my question to the Minister. Let him work on a review of the current system of the Financial Relationship Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u45	I can well follow Mr Veldman's argument, as well as the argument to the Municipal Fund and its calibration, but the same argument applies to the Province Fund. I can hear Mr Veldman say a few words about this at the end, but can he tell us a little bit more about that? Doesn't he think that we should be able to get to that re-examination with about the same argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u46	Yes, that's why I closed my block with a revision of both the Municipal and Provincial Funds, i.e. the total of the Financial Relationship Act. There are also a number of challenges in the Province Fund. In my view, these are less large and less complex than with the Community Fund, but this must be done in full width.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u47	I'm glad to hear that. This will only improve the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u48	Then I suggest that Mr Veldman move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u49	One of the points in the coalition agreement was the merging of the provinces of Noord-Holland, Utrecht and Flevoland. However, there is no mention of this in the 2016 budget. During last year's budget debate, the failure to continue the merger has already been discussed in detail. My colleague, Mr Van Oosten, then suggested that the initiative to redesign the central administration in the provinces themselves should be introduced, precisely because new lectures have taken place this year. The Minister then indicated that he would take this suggestion into account in his next administrative consultation. What has come out of these consultations? Are there any follow-up steps? What about the study group on public administration I have just mentioned? Can we expect the results of this study group before the summer of 2016? I come to the issue of the large influx of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees. It's been discussed many times and in many places. That's what I'm supposed to do. Here too, when discussing the internal affairs budget, I would like to address, on behalf of the VVD, the reality that we are in and ask a number of questions to the Minister. Given the huge number of asylum seekers arriving here, significant challenges arise for society in full breadth and for municipalities in particular. This applies both to the reception of asylum seekers now and to the inclusion of status holders now and in the future. What about the call for health and welfare services, education, poverty policies and so on? This will require a strong commitment from municipalities. The question we need to ask is whether municipalities and, in particular, the communities can deal with it. Both organizational and financial it takes a lot of time for an average residential area to enter our country every week. I ask the Minister how he looks at the shelter that is needed for anyone who is here now. What is the Minister doing after his letter to the provinces with a request for large-scale reception, now that he has not had a positive response? To what extent does the Minister have an idea of what side effects will occur and, if so, can he share them with the Chamber? What does this require of society? Are municipalities prepared for this? Can municipalities handle this? Or does this call for further steps in the removal of provisions that status holders can use? What does the Minister hear about the sounds of directors and how does he feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u50	Mr Veldman's question is answered by many VVD mayor, for example by Mr Van Aartsen, VVD mayor of The Hague. He says, "I'm fine and everything's gonna be fine. Go to sleep quietly, because this is a fantastic contribution for the city. Yeah, the Transvaal neighborhood looks like Ankara, but I just love that." So those VVD mayors are cheering at the influx.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u51	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u52	What does Mr Veldman think of those VVD mayors and directors who are so happy and who have an answer to the question he is asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u53	Mr Bosma gives a very free translation of what he apparently hears in the country. I see a lot of VVD directors taking responsibility, and that's the way it should be. Now when people come into the country, come in here and apply for asylum, and therefore there is also a need for emergency care, crisis care and structured care, VVD administrators are simply standing by. Then they're gonna do the same, because that's how we agreed to do it and you're supposed to do it properly. That is precisely why I ask the Minister: what does this mean for municipalities now and in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u54	Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u55	It is nice that Mr Veldman is asking questions, but hopefully he also has an opinion. I note that the VVD does not "take responsibility" at all, which sounds very tough in driver's language. I note that all these VVD mayors simply bow down to the COA, carry out what the COA demands, go along throughout the asylum tsunami and choose not for the citizens but for the politically correct Netherlands. They're just bending along. Why doesn't Mr. Veldman just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u56	Unlike the PVV, the VVD makes a distinction. There's what she wants to realize to make sure people don't come here anymore. In March, we launched the proposal on reception in the region itself and the asylum procedure there. In October, we presented the story about the austerity of reception and shortening the status period. These are concrete ideas that are being worked on. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that people are now entering the country and that you will have to realize care for them. That is also what the VVD leaders in the country are for. If those questions are there, if those people are there, we're just gonna take care of it. That's a matter of decency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u58	I come to the decentralisations: a large transfer of responsibilities to municipalities and a challenging job. In many places things are going well and sometimes things are going a little less well. That is annoying and we must continue to work on it. We need to ask questions and express concerns. For example, I would like to ask the Minister here and now about the way in which municipalities deal with privacy. I see examples coming along that I'm not gonna be happy about. This is something that has been explicitly called for. I can't wait to see what's going on. Have the various guarantees requested been implemented by the municipalities? And are there any bottlenecks present or to be expected? What actions have been taken, from privacy impact assessments to strengthening the position of the care user himself? In short, according to the Minister, is he doing well or is he taking additional action? One issue that we certainly need to be concerned about is the progress of the Digital Agenda 2017 and the progress in open data. We have agreed that by 2017 companies and residents can do digital business with the government. Looking at the progress of various projects, from the Basic Registration Persons to the eID to the generic digital information structure, I am deeply concerned. The Minister doesn't make enough meters on these files. Should all municipalities first be connected to the Basic Registration Persons in 2016, now municipalities can only be connected gradually from 2017. For the eID programme, the pilot phase has yet to begin, while implementation has to be completed in 2017. Moreover, the implementation of eID does not include a post in the budget, while it should be implemented from the second half of 2016. The budget lacks information on the coherence between the different pathways, the concrete objectives to be achieved and the timetable. I'm very dissatisfied with that. I want the Minister to make concrete improvements and get things right. What are the aggregated targets for the digital government? How and where has the monitoring of the coherence of all these projects been organised within the Ministry? I want the Minister to carry out a policy review on the broad lines of the Digital Agenda as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u59	The fact that a number of projects are moving less quickly is a question that has come from the Chamber. I understand that we want to make progress on the Digital Agenda 2017, but I also attach great importance to a good way of dealing with eID and BRP. How does the VVD feel about that? Do we really need to talk about speed or are we going to make sure that we deliver a good product later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u60	Of course, it starts with delivering a good product. Care is paramount, especially when it comes to our digital security. Several questions have been asked earlier in the Chamber, criteria have been established and discussions have been held with this Minister on the progress and quality of the products being worked on. This is without prejudice to the fact that progress is insufficient. This is without prejudice to the fact that in the budget I see too little of the coherence between the various projects. I also see too little of it when it is delivered and with what result. I see delays in particular, and I am not satisfied with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u61	Mrs. Oosenbrug. The answers must also be brief, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u62	The delay is precisely what we have asked for from this Chamber. I'm trying to clear that up with the VVD. Mr Veldman can appeal to the Minister, but it is also something for which we should actually put our hands into our own hands. Does the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u63	We have asked not so much for delays, but in recent debates we have asked whether it is qualitatively in order, whether it is good, whether the objectives are good, whether it is financially sound and whether all the criteria are correctly formulated. These are all worrying questions that have been asked, precisely because we do not have the overview, do not see the progress and do not see that this minister is making meters. However, he should do so on this dossier, if only because we have made agreements with each other that in 2017 we want residents and companies to be able to communicate digitally with the government. If only because we want what we have digitally arranged to be safe. This minister has a responsibility, and he will have to live up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u64	Those are big words. What does Mr Veldman attach here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u65	I learned from my parents that if you ask a question, you wait for the answer first. I ask a number of questions, firm questions, because I want this minister to make meters. I'm waiting for the answers the Minister's gonna give tomorrow. I hope that the Minister will give me good answers tomorrow, really get on his feet and make meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u66	And is there anything else in Mr. Veldman's pockets that's gonna come out? What is Mr Veldman going to pay Minister Plasterk for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u67	It's always such a shame that D66 will be talking about the checkout right away. D66 does this a lot. I am here on behalf of the VVD Group to assess this Minister and this budget. I ask questions because I do not see things in the budget and because I do not see things happening in practice. It starts with questions and answers and then we judge with each other how things are going. If D66 wants to deal with it, Mrs. Koser Kaya has to go to the supermarket in front of the cash register, because that's where you pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u68	Please continue. No, no, Mrs. Koser Kaya, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u69	Mr President, I find this faint. I really have to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u70	No, no. You can't ask any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u71	I think Mr Veldman has asked extremely critical questions. I would then ask him whether there are any consequences. For example, what time does he want his questions to be worked out, because only answers won't get you there? He's just supposed to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u72	I'm used to asking questions first and then getting answers. After that, I'll be able to pass judgment. I assume that the Minister will give a proper answer in the first term. If he doesn't, I'll force him to move in a certain period of time. We must continue to send each other on content, instead of walking around with a full back pocket of empty notes and papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u74	That's not my style of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u75	Continue
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u76	We have already discussed this extensively in the context of the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act: open data can be of great economic and social importance. It is important to tackle this with both hands and to speed things up. It was the agreement that shortly after the summer the National Open Data Agenda would be available. Why isn't this one here? What are you waiting for? Yeah, it's still hot outside, but when I look at the calendar, summer is long over and the National Open Data Agenda should have just been there. Because of lack of control, nothing happens now or then, everyone finds their own will. The art of using data is that metadata should be easily paired. So it starts with making sure that data is actually made available. The House has already expressed its views on this in motions for resolutions this spring. So there is already a task and a mission for this minister. This also means, for example, that public authorities have to work with the same framework of standards. If each one has their own thing, something has happened, but it doesn't help us. Here too, I expect more action from the Minister. Steps need to be taken now. The lack of coherence, the lack of guidance and a clear picture of what we want now may have a number of causes. A cause could be, among other things, a fragmentation of responsibilities and resources. At a state level, it seems that each department does its own thing with its own resources. There is therefore no question of joint prioritisation. The VVD therefore believes that pooling available resources could be a good step. Bundling of available resources can ensure better coherence and guidance. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he views the pooling of financial resources for the government's digital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u77	I very much agreed with what Mr Veldman said about the Digital Agenda. Now I agree with him on open data. Above all, I note that there are plans for this agenda, as well as a new action plan for the open government, but that you cannot find any concrete items in the budget that implement these plans. I was wondering what the VVD thought of that observation. Does Mr. Veldman share them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u78	That can be short, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u79	That is why I am calling for a pooling of resources. Now there's probably left and right at different departments of pots that you and I don't see, but there are. Everyone's probably making their own decision. That's why I asked that question. I would like to take the step towards pooling resources. There's a lot of ways to do that. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at that. The pooling of resources can provide coherence and guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u80	I think a wide pot for open data would be a very good idea. Who, according to the VVD, should have the lead in coordinating open data? Which minister, according to the VVD, is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u81	I believe that we have now appointed the Minister of the Interior for this purpose. That is why we are now holding the debate with him. I assume we'll keep it that way for a while, unless we come to the conclusion that we'd better organise it in a different way. Maybe this is from the bundling, but I'm not assuming it is. I think that task is well invested now. It only means that the minister who has the responsibility to steer this centrally must also take the steps that are necessary and make meters. I'd like to name two more cases. I begin with a point that many parties in this Chamber have been a thorn in the eye for years. Municipalities manage to gain a more favourable place on rankings of local burdens by resorting to an invisible tax, i.e. the precario tax for utilities. This is a tax on utility networks. They then pass this tax on to their customers. Almost no one knows about it while in some municipalities it can reach €50 per household per year. Precario taxation on networks clouds the view of municipal taxes. The Chamber has called for this in several motions since 2004. I would ask the Minister to complete the bill he is working on as a matter of urgency and send it to the Chamber. The Minister cannot continue to postpone this, especially in view of the number of motions that have already been adopted by the Chamber on this matter. My final point concerns an appeal to deal with abuse of the Public Administration Act. This spring, we discussed the bill to remove the penalty payment of the Public Administration Act. With the Minister's agreement, we stopped the discussion after his first term. I would ask the Minister to withdraw his agreement to stop that discussion. We need to get the bill back on the agenda. Week by week, abuse takes place. Week after week, people are busy with nothing but collecting the penalty. Is the Minister prepared to do this? If not, what is he going to do to tackle abuse of the Public Administration Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u82	I had another question. The VVD spent about one and a half minutes of its speaking time on the intelligence services. I find that rather disappointing at a time of terror. I would also like to hear more about the VVD's vision on the AIVD. Among other things, the VVD spoke about the intelligence agencies' instruments. Does the VVD believe that the AIVD should have more instruments to combat terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u83	I read the cabinet letter today. Of course, we have followed what is available so far. We know part of that and about another part we do not speak publicly. I assume that the services have an instrument box with which they can get out of their way. If they can't, I'll hear it from this minister. Because that's what I just asked him. If the services are unable to deal with it, please report, Minister, as I said, because then we need to talk about both the instruments and the finances. On the basis of what the Prime Minister said last Saturday and the Cabinet today, I am sure that the Minister will confirm tomorrow that the instrument box of the services is in order, including the steps that are still to be taken, as reported in the letter today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u84	An ordinary answer would be nice, too. There are more than 40 returned jihadists in the Netherlands. Those people can't all be watched all the time. There will be more people coming back from jihad areas. Is Mr Veldman in favour of the idea that my group has been advocating for over a year, namely the introduction of administrative detention? Then every returned jihadist will be apprehended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u85	A brief response, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u86	I think we're living in a rule of law where you can't just do this. This actually means that you randomly point out people and say: we're going to put you in detention. I think we should do what is necessary, namely follow those people and monitor what they are doing and what they are not doing. If they're doing something they can't handle, we have to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u87	Mr. Chairman. The dramatic events in Paris have touched us all deeply. We deeply sympathize with all the victims and the next of kin. This Thursday, of course, will be followed by a proper debate. However, since this minister is about the security services, we are also asking him a number of questions, in particular about the budget and the powers. We really want to be able to look each other in the eye. I do that through you, Mr. Chairman, so it's a little tricky. We want to know whether events currently require additional investment in the AIVD. The CDA Group has tabled an amendment to the budget of Security and Justice to increase investment in the security chain. The question is whether this is also necessary for the AIVD. We are asking for this precisely because the cabinet itself is talking about increased preparedness and increased capacity. What does this mean financially? If the minister thinks we need money, how much should we add? What do we have to do? I would also like to talk about the powers of the AIVD. When will the Minister come forward with his bill on the intelligence and security services? The powers of the services will have to be extended, including with regard to cable communications. However, they will also need to be accompanied by safeguards and adequate supervision. That applies to all powers. We also know that the information provided by the security services can hardly be used in criminal matters at the moment. Last year, the PVV tabled a motion during the budget debate asking for this information to be used. We supported that motion, but it was not adopted. France will use the information. What can the Minister mean in this? Shouldn't this be reconsidered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u88	I almost forgot that motion again. It is a good thing that Mrs Van Toorenburg remembers that. Can I propose to her that we retable the motion tomorrow with both our names underneath? Then we can see how far we are going this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u89	That could be a very good idea. Let's take a look at that, because it was actually a very cautious motion. It was only about an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages that was being made, and even that was not what this Chamber wanted. Let us indeed hope that the Minister himself undertakes to do so. If he doesn't, we'll get back together, because a proposal from the PVV, that's never happened to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u90	If you want the motion any rougher, there's talk to me, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u91	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u92	I didn't expect anything else. Another problem is the cooperation of the services, which is also being considered in Europe. There is a real need to take steps in this respect. It is also worrying that there can not yet be enough in the field of the retention of travel data. What can we expect from this cabinet on these points? I shall go into this in more detail during the special debate on the dramatic events in Paris. I now turn to a number of points which directly concern this Minister. First of all, I want to talk about the safe public task. Last week, we addressed this Minister in great detail about strengthening the security of the public task. The Minister is on the right track. Let that be said immediately. Every time there is a shock by society when violence is repeated against aid workers or administrators and this minister wants to stand next to them. Effective handling of all this misery is essential, but it is also important to share expertise and insights. Just let the Safe Public Task expertise centre have been set up, which should suddenly become self-sufficient. All available knowledge, tools and good examples would still be available if the centre of expertise were to expire, but the question remains who will pay for it. In fact, the CDA Group does not understand that the Minister is suddenly abandoning his responsibility for the public task on this issue, especially in this very poor climate. The VNG, the trade unions, the Civil Service Centre and CNV Constructive have also expressed their concerns about this. The CDA doesn't want the expertise to disappear. We are not convinced by the letter from this cabinet, so we have tabled an amendment together with D66 to keep things going. For the time to come, it is important to ensure the expertise, expertise and training in a good way. In general consultation we also discussed the disruption of council meetings. Those are serious crimes, but it doesn't seem like anyone realizes that. The Minister has promised that he will make an analysis of this and come to the Chamber with it. That is important, because democracy is under pressure. Then I come to the decentralisations and the cuts. We were promised tailor-made work in the social domain and "support that matches people's need to direct their own lives." However, the municipalities themselves cannot even direct. The municipalities have been given tasks in areas where savings are being made. Here and there you see it squeaks and cracks. It does not happen every day that 234 aldermen of various plumage here in the Chamber offer a fire letter. They see an accumulation of discounts. These discounts are not or are hardly substantiated. The scaling-up discount is very worrying. How's the minister gonna restore confidence? Municipalities demand stability and predictability. I find this worrying and I agree with the questions raised by the VVD Group. Then I come to the point of digital communication. We have agreed with this Minister that not all information would go digital. Somehow it does. Look at the blue envelope. The CDA is opposed to it disappearing and that everything can only be digital. Citizens cannot go along with this and the confidence in the government's digital communication is appalling. What's this minister gonna do to fix that? Then I'll come to the little cores. The quality of life in villages and cities is important and residents' initiatives are indispensable. The National Association for Small Cores does an indispensable job in this. Last year we tabled an amendment in the Chamber to ensure that it keeps its budget. CDA, PvdA, SP and SGP kept that grant up, but this time they knocked on the door in vain. What can we expect from this minister? Otherwise there will be another amendment. Finally, I come to the public-private partnership. In the security domain we see especially worrying developments. We'll talk about that later. Certain important provisions cannot be maintained. For example, look at a municipality like Mierlo. The fire department, together with a safety consultancy firm, is setting up a building on an industrial site. The aim of the cooperation is to maintain such a provision for a small community. However, they run into everything. One scheme does not fit in with the other. Private and public cannot work together in one way or another. You can also see it in VAT. Suddenly everything becomes more expensive because there is cooperation. What can we expect from this cabinet on this point? So there are many expectations. Oh, we're gonna get some nice answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u93	Maybe it's a good thing that I say before I start that I'm replacing my colleague Manon Fokke. She is actually the permanent spokesman of the Labour Party for Home Affairs. I'm mainly a care spokesperson. The Group of the Party of Labour makes this contribution with two women. Astrid Oosenbrug will take care of the digital component. Mr. Chairman. This budget debate on the Interior is taking place in the week in which the shock of the attacks in Paris is still almost physical. At the same time, the terrorist attacks underline the importance of a functioning and integrity of democracy, which also overcomes the most violent shocks. Therefore, most of the contribution of the PvdA Group will be about how our democracy remains in the hearts of the people, how it can function better and how citizens can become more involved in their own governance. One of the first cases I'd like to raise is the position of city council members. Their tasks have been greatly increased by the decentralisations and you can see the workload of council members. Aldermen no longer reach the finish line in almost half of the cases and all political parties recognise the phenomenon that electoral lists are difficult to fill. Social status has collapsed over the past few years. Last week, a topical and urgent item showed that a third of the council members do not deserve the understanding of a law or of the college's proposals. If we are not careful, we will find ourselves in a downward spiral, which is why the PvdA believes that it should not be passively established that this is happening or that reference is made to the VNG which has courses, the obligation to inform municipalities or a pilot running somewhere. We ask the Minister to take the lead and work towards better positioning of city council members, starting with research into the position, workload, information and remuneration of city council members. The last study on this is from five years ago, before the decentralisations. That is hopelessly outdated because of all the changes. However, sticking a thermometer in the position of council members is not enough. Action must also be taken. In my opinion, it is also necessary for a cultural change to take place in a society. As a few years ago, a great social appreciation for carers was launched, so should city council members, who work 15 to 20 hours a week to make our democracy work effectively. For carers, there has been a very successful campaign for family care-friendly personnel policies for many years. Budgetaryly neutral because it significantly reduces absenteeism, but above all effective for the combination of work and care. I wonder why we have still not agreed on a staff-friendly policy that is well-known and goes a little beyond a collective agreement in which something has been agreed. For example, council members would have been greatly helped by flexible working hours or participation in their scheduling, so that they could be scheduled around their council work. I know that council members do their work out of passion for politics and out of involvement with local government, but I am also sure that they will do their work differently if their employers would openly express a positive appreciation for their commitment and thus make a start with council members-friendly staff policy. I ask the Minister to take stock of what is already being offered by employers in favour of council work. I expect action on this point and I would like to hear how the Minister can work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u94	I hear Mrs Wolbert say that she is concerned about council members, particularly in small municipalities, who have been given an enormous task that they may not be able to cope with. I share with her that it is good to ensure good information. I think that's primarily with a college of mayor and aldermen. The UNG can also play a role in this. I think there's something else you can ask from those councilmen. I just want to check how Mrs Wolbert feels about that. In my opinion, you may also ask council members to look closely in the mirror and ask themselves whether they can still perform their role as a representative of the people in that small municipality in a good way. If you come to the conclusion that that is not possible, shouldn't the city council take the step to see if they can go together instead of working together? Then you end up in a larger city council with usually larger groups and the work can be divided among more council members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u95	I didn't talk about small towns. I note that large and medium-sized municipalities also have a lot of cooperation with other municipalities. That's what I'm supposed to do. I am very much in favour of that. However, this means that for local council members in the participating municipalities they need to coordinate, prepare and discuss much more. In the here and now what I'm talking about, I notice that they have a lot on their plate. Before we have managed to move all the municipalities into a merger throughout the Netherlands, I suggest that we give proper support to those city council members who have been doing their work all this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u96	I can tell from this that Mrs Wolbert also says that although it takes some time before municipalities start to scale up and work together in a different way, this is a passable route for her and can be a solution in ensuring that council members are well equipped to carry out their duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u97	It's not an or-or story as far as I'm concerned. Every day in every municipality in the Netherlands there are those council members with their feet in the clay. I think we haven't recognized their work enough for years. So I wouldn't want to wait until we have 100,000+ municipalities everywhere before we give this discussion hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u98	Before Mrs Wolbert all wants to put thermometers in council members, I think we already know a lot about why it is impossible to be a council member. This is simply a matter of government policy. I refer to the decentralisations and the difficult tasks to be carried out by municipalities with far too little money. I also mention the fact that municipalities in more than 500 partnerships create policies that council members have nothing more to say about. And then they all have to scale up from Mr. Veldman to huge municipalities, so that you no longer work with your own neighborhood, your own village or your own city, but on a very abstract level, where you no longer encounter a human being. Is Mrs Wolbert prepared, on behalf of the PvdA, to put the thermometer in the Minister to see to what extent government policy has resulted in council members being unable to do their job now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u99	Before I answer all sorts of distasteful proposals from the SP, I would like to say that my question is mainly focused on two issues. Firstly, we need to look at the current situation of council members. The last study was carried out five years ago, so before the decentralisations, and even then it was found that there were considerable differences in the positions of city council members. I can also say that, in the meantime, they have not gotten any smaller. Secondly, it is also a cultural change. It is also about social appreciation for the people who are committed to our local democracy. The fact that social appreciation for their work is calving down is partly due to the fact that their board is overcrowded. It is therefore important that the council work is much more appreciated by society. I didn't make the analogy to care support for no reason. A minister in a department once started doing that. She has entered into social alliances, and then everyone knows by now what family care-friendly staff policy is, with which carers have been greatly helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u100	Thank you, Mrs Wolbert. You have to be short, really, or we're gonna be here very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u101	Lack of appreciation for council members starts with the government, starts with the PvdA, starts with the VVD, because they have given impossible tasks to municipalities with far too little money, with large partnerships, with large reclassifications, with large discounts of 1 billion for policies that have not been implemented. I think council members are mostly disrespected and not taken seriously by the government itself. This minister should and should be the minister of local government. Before research is carried out and all kinds of committees and situations re-established, Mrs Wolbert should simply start thinking about the consequences of her policy for all those people who want to bring the administration close to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u102	This wasn't an interruption, and it wasn't a question. It was just a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u103	On a point of order, Mr President. We're having a debate. That could be a question. It could be a reaction. It can be done in all kinds of ways. I'm having a proper debate. I'll do my part in two. Sometimes that is asking, sometimes that is imperative, sometimes that is summary and sometimes that is a contribution in a different way, but that is what I am about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u104	And I'm in charge of the order of business. Mrs. Wolbert, you can respond to that if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u105	I did not hear a question, but let me put a statement to this effect. I think that also SP council members would be thrilled if some of these recommendations were to be implemented soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u106	Then they are lucky, because thanks to the CDA and GroenLinks they will soon be introduced. As of 1 January 2016, the Working Flexible Act will enter into force. Council members will also be given more opportunities to organise their work more flexibly, for example. What does the PvdA's proposal for council-friendly personnel policy add?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u107	In some collective agreements, all is covered, not in other collective agreements. I think it is extremely important that there is social appreciation and recognition from society for the fact that council work means so much, including for society. That is no longer the case at the moment. There are employers who don't even know which people from their own organization are politically active; I wouldn't like to give them a living. I believe that these people, who should always advocate flexibility through laws and regulations, should be recognised and facilitated in their work, more than is currently the case. The law of which Mrs Voortman is a co-initiator is very helpful in flexibilising; I very much agree with her. However, it is not just about working hours, but also about participation in the scheduling and council members who have to take off days when they have to deal with the municipal budget. I'm having trouble with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u108	Me too. With the initiative law of the CDA and GroenLinks, we deal with this precisely for all employees in the Netherlands and not just for the council members. Again, what does the PvdA's proposal mean for the council members? The PvdA states that it wants more recognition, but that must be achieved in a budget-neutral way, I understand. What is the point of this proposal for a Councillor? That's still not quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u109	I asked the Minister to look again at the working conditions of council members. That aspect is very outdated and needs to be reviewed. In addition, I believe that council members should be supported much more actively in the promotion of expertise and continuing training. I believe that council members should be given much more recognition through council members-friendly staff policy for the work they do. So I'm talking about a whole package. Well, I think you'll get something out of it locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u110	I am pleased to be surprised by Mrs Wolbert's warm plea for the support of council members. After all, Council members are our independent democratic representatives in the many municipalities, which give substance to democracy. Then she wants two things. First of all, she wants recognition, which means we're going to introduce some kind of councilman's compliment. Secondly, it wants to facilitate council members in their work. Facilitation can be achieved through, for example, an increase in the remuneration of council members, on the other hand, through the promotion of expertise or group support in the municipal groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u111	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u112	Does Mrs Wolbert put butter on the fish? Does it increase the Municipal Fund to give the municipalities additional opportunities to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u113	I would like to continue with my speech, because I will be joining the Municipal Fund later. In any case, I would like the Minister to draw up an action plan involving all these elements, so that we in the Chamber know what is needed to further strengthen this from the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u114	An action plan would be very nice, but that includes money. I know from several municipalities that there are action plans to support council members; look at the Dutch Association for Council Members, the Aldermen's Association or the VNG. That action plan is therefore already with a lot of municipalities, with the Dutch Association for Council Members, with the VNG, with the various political parties. Does it not make much more sense for Mrs Wolbert to give butter to the fish and say 'Minister, draw up an action plan and we have so much money to pay'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u115	When you come up with good plans, there are always people who say: we already have. Seen that, done that. My observation is that incredibly much support is needed and that city council members mainly want support in facilitation and flexibilisation. A pot of money is not always the first solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u116	I see that Mr Klein wishes to intervene again, but I suggest that Mrs Wolbert continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u117	There has never been a social cultural change caused by putting a pot of money in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u118	Point of order. I note that there is no answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u119	Mr Klein, you are asking a question and a follow-up question. Mrs Wolbert said that she would come back to your question in her speech. If that doesn't happen, you can ask me later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u120	For a solid democracy, people need to know and understand. Last month, the SCP published a study showing that citizens have a lot of confidence in democracy, but less in political practice: politicians do not listen to ordinary people, go their own way, are self-interested or talk too much and do too little. Fortunately, we now know many other forms of exchanging opinions, interests and questions, which seem to be very successful and which are beautifully customized locally. In any case, they respond to the desire for greater mutual involvement between politicians and citizens. The Labour Party is enthusiastic about this, because it can actually bring citizens closer to local government and make decision-making more appropriate and bearable. We are therefore pleased that the Minister has taken this part into account in his action plan, local government, but it seems a bit like it depends on chance whether this enrichment of the classic way of working is really being used. The Labour Party wants to prevent the organization of G1000-like forms of work from sticking to a small vanguard and eventually dying in beauty. How does the Minister ensure that it gets firmer and that all these small drops in the Dutch municipalities grow into a great wave that raises citizens and local government to an even stronger and more recognizable public administration? The Minister shows himself to be a great advocate of do-democracy, in which citizens' initiatives are supported and taken forward, and in which the government faces the challenge of serving and facilitating itself, which is often a whole undertaking. The examples are all very inspiring and the Labour Party very much appreciates the Minister's commitment in this area and the recognition that, for example, the National Partnership Active Residents is of value. I would therefore like to express my support for the Small Cores Association, which also spontaneously assists the Minister in the implementation of the Do-Democracy policy by showing for years how innovation in local cooperation can lead to good results. Can the Minister promise that he will continue the work of this organisation by providing for a multi-annual grant, starting with that for 2016? I do not want to talk about the internal affairs budget without considering the financial position of municipalities. Last week, some 230 municipalities here in the Chamber expressed their concerns about their poor financial position. Due to a sum of factors of a very different nature, these municipalities are facing the water. One of the grievances is unclear about the municipal budget and the constant fluctuations. You'd say there's something to be done about that. The aldermen themselves propose to change the working methods so that the spring note already provides clarity on the budget. Is that really a solution? Could changing the arrangements provide more clarity? Wouldn't it be good to keep other developments under closer review as well? I am a spokesperson of concern and in this area we talk about shared savings: with a joint preventive effort you can save money, which can then be re-used by municipalities to perpetuate the results. The municipalities do not currently have a title for this. I would like to mention this as an example of rethinking municipal finances. Mr Veldman of the VVD also spoke about it earlier. How does the Minister see this? Does he agree with the Labour Party that consideration should be given to how to achieve a more stable and future-proof municipal budget? Would the Minister like to take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u121	Wouldn't it make more sense for the Empire to be a little more reliable from its side? This year there have been changes in the current financial year. In the case of 2016, further changes were made in October. For a city like Apeldoorn, this means a difference of, I believe, 11 million. That's a lot on a municipal budget. Aldermen argue that the Spring Note should include the budget. Doesn't Mrs Wolbert think that this is a very good reference date and that you should stop making any changes afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u122	That's exactly what I'm talking about. If it is the solution to all issues to do so in the spring paper, I imagine that it will be introduced. However, this is precisely why I ask the Minister to respond. After all, it is also a fact that in the autumn, in September/October, it becomes clear whether there can also be stairs. That's what you miss. I have no idea in advance of how this should be done, but I would ask the Minister to look into this and respond to it. Doesn't the Minister want to keep this system under review at all? There are, after all, a number of other reasons why you should want to review the system of building up the Community fund and the budget at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u123	I think it is particularly important that municipalities think that they have been helped. This is one of the three points that municipalities say: please, just enter it. That is what must weigh most, not the question of whether the Minister is in the mood?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u124	I would also like to attach great importance to what municipalities themselves think. In any case, I think that you should definitely want to address the lack of clarity and instability in the municipal budget. I have therefore asked the Minister to say something about this. But I'd like to go much wider. I would ask the Minister, as I have done, to work towards a more stable, but also future-proof municipal budget in the light of a number of other developments. That could be a little wider than just the point Mrs Voortman is making right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u125	Especially the other part I'm curious about. I am very pleased that Mr Wolbert is asking for clarity and for a fixed moment, so that the municipalities know what they are up to. Does Mrs Wolbert now ask Minister Plasterk to take up this role as coordinator of decentralisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u126	I am not talking so much about decentralisation as about the fact that the Minister of the Interior is talking to the municipalities. I asked the Minister to take the initiative to look at a more stable and future-proof municipal budget. This is important, in my view, because we are still working on the basis of a municipal budget, the construction of which at least dates back to the time when municipalities, to put it mildly, were particularly concerned about sewers and land-use planning. Fortunately, as we all know, this has not been the case for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u127	Mrs. Koser Kaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u128	Because Mrs Wolbert was also talking about care, of course I had to think about the Wmo, the Child Welfare and the Participation Act. This is all part of the decentralisation process. Because Mrs Wolbert made it very clear that we would also like to get a better grip on the concerns of the Minister, so I would at least explain to her whether she agrees with me that the coordinating role of the Minister, which is currently unclear, should be visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u129	I'm afraid we're talking past each other. I am not talking about decentralisation. I am talking about the municipal budget. I note that in that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u130	Then I'm very curious what Mrs Wolbert means by "care."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u131	I was just going to explain that. I asked the Minister if he would take the initiative to think at all about a more stable and future-proof municipal budget. This follows on from what Mr Veldman outlined about the re-evaluation of the Municipal Fund. I am asking this because the municipalities are currently working on very different policy areas than a few years ago, before the decentralisations were discussed. I gave an example of the fact that there is no title in the Municipal Fund on the basis of which we would be able to place shared savings in it. I'd like to take that with me in a review. That happens to be the example I am running into from VWS, but I can mention many other examples. Not only do the decentralisations put the municipalities to the test, but also the issues surrounding the reception of refugees constitute a real stress test for local government. The PvdA Group appreciates the Minister's initiative to meet the increased costs of security and escalation, but the question is whether we can leave it alone with material support. Is a standard-setting attitude in the public domain not also important at the moment? Is it not important to strongly condemn the fact that cross-standard behaviour by citizens is not tolerated among themselves? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. In this context, the issue of municipalities and finances is still a final question about the disadvantaged municipalities. I understand they're still talking about their extra difficult position. My question to the Minister is whether there are opportunities for temporisation. What would be the consequences for the municipalities which do not belong to the disadvantaged municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u132	Suppose I come up with the proposal to cut the PvdA by a billion euros. That proposal will be discussed. No one agrees with it, perhaps only Mr Bosma, and on the basis of good arguments I will finally withdraw my proposal. Next, the PvdA must turn in a billion euros. Does that make sense to Mrs. Wolbert?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u133	I completely miss the connection with the debate on home affairs, but I would not think it logical if Mr Van Raak cut the PvdA by EUR 1 billion. The PvdA wouldn't agree with that. However, I do not see the logic of Mr Van Raak's example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u134	That is exactly what we do with the municipalities. The government has come up with a proposal on reclassification and a scale-up reduction of EUR 1 billion. All kinds of people said, however, that we should not do that. Even Mr Bosma said we shouldn't do it. The government then withdrew that proposal and said: okay, then we won't do it, we won't talk about it anymore, but the municipalities will have to make a billion cuts. Just now, Mrs Wolbert didn't think that was logical when it came to the PvdA. She can explain why it makes sense when it comes to the municipalities in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u135	Of course I understand the analogy. As far as I'm concerned, that figure doesn't deserve the beauty prize. At the same time, the cabinet has had to make this austerity as part of the overall package of cuts that had to be made in order to cope with the banking crisis. For this reason, this austerity has been incorporated into the coalition agreement. The coalition holds every minister to that, including the Minister of the Interior. My answer is as it is; I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u136	Mr. Chairman. My love for openness and transparency is no longer a secret in the Chamber. Partly because of this I recently received the book The Open Organization. Reading that book, I realized once again that Red Hat exists because Linus Torvalds created one of the most famous and most widely used open source operating systems that is accessible to everyone: Linux. Why am I telling you this? Perhaps you're wondering. In addition to the fact that I would like to hand over my copy of this book to the Minister via the messenger in the context of "sharing is having the new one," I would also like to do so to give the explicit message through the book how important open source and open standards are for digital accessibility. I therefore call on the Minister to consult with his colleagues and to come up with a plan to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands can participate from their own roles. We need to focus not only on accessibility in real life, but also on digital life. In each portfolio, in each department, you can find elements that can make participation possible for everyone. In addition to the problems with high-speed internet in the various outlying areas, which put pupils, start-ups and people with a call for help and a significant part of the city's websites do not or hardly comply with the web guidelines, which makes digital information poorly available to people with disabilities, there is still a huge challenge due to the lack of public access to open standards and semi-government. Together with Mr Gesthuizen of the SP, I have previously tabled a motion which provides for this, but it seems that only the government actively takes up this motion and the municipalities, the provinces and the semi-government, for example the UWV, leave this motion. The question about the use of real open standards at UWV was answered that they print out the digital form and send it to the client via the post, and that they would rather do so than use open standards allowing the client to simply fill out the digital form online. This can't be happening. A government that wants to communicate digitally with its citizens as of 2017 also has a responsibility to get everyone involved. A first, simple step is to use open standards, if only to support the municipalities in their fight against the duopolists. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that the provinces, municipalities and semi-governments also participate in the implementation of the aforementioned motion? The grip on ICT does not seem to be getting stronger. That is why, in the context of transparency too, I ask that the reports previously sent to the Chamber with a complete overview of licensing costs, maintenance, purchase of hardware, hire of externals and further relevant information be sent back to the Chamber by default, so that this Chamber can carry out its controlling task properly. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. A good balance between openness and privacy is important. The government has a lot of privacy sensitive data that should not be available to everyone. Currently in my own municipality, for example, the question is whether address details of letters sent to the council by residents, such as a response to a zoning plan, can be posted on the internet. The same applies to the content of the letters in so far as they can be traced back to persons. More attention should be paid to the border area between public access to the Internet and the protection of the privacy of citizens who provide information to the public authorities. Otherwise, that citizen will be on the Internet for life. A hand-out from the minister's side to the municipalities is certainly welcome. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he can do this. Finally. This minister is the coordinating minister of "open, unless" from the government closer to the citizen, but the Chamber itself has a role to play there. What good would it be if our own Chamber provided a transparent environment, accessible to every citizen. This could be done by opening the Parlis system to everyone as soon as possible. Then the Dutch parliament can also say in 2016 that it fully participates in the digital era.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u137	Mrs Oosenbrug is always very knowledgeable in the field of digitalisation. She sometimes questions the Chamber when she speaks on the basis of her expertise. However, I would also like to hear the other side of the Labour Party. Does she really think it is appropriate that the government only communicates digitally with the citizen on parts of the tax administration? Should we not really stick together, as the Ombudsman also says, that there is always a normal window?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u138	I have already indicated in previous contributions that I am very much in favour of technology and digitalisation, but that everyone should be able to participate. I also ask the Minister how he is going to ensure that everyone can continue to participate. The disappearance of the blue envelope, Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned it earlier, seems very nice. The IRS was cheering, I saw on TV. Meanwhile, my father asked, "How can I fill in my taxes?" Because my dad doesn't have a computer or anything. Then when you call the Tax Phone, you get the answer: then you have to do it for him. That's not the society I want to go to. I share with the CDA that we must ensure that there is always a way for people who cannot participate on the digital highway to stay in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u139	Then it is a pity that the Chamber, and I think the Labour Party too, did not support us in order to prevent that blue envelope from disappearing. That is what we really wanted to avoid. I understand, however, that the Labour Party may have to table a motion on this matter, which really wants to stand alongside us. There must always be normal, physical access for the citizen. The government cannot only communicate digitally with its citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u140	I totally agree with the CDA on this. I think we are also getting a bit of a point here, which is why a lot of things aren't going well in this Chamber: every portfolio has a digitization hit. As spokesmen, for example, we cannot keep up with them all. I would like to think, perhaps with the CDA too, about how we can get better reports on this or at least keep our finger on the pulse, so that we do not, for example, ask the national administration to ensure that there is always room for people who cannot communicate via the digital way and then disappear by another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u141	Mrs Oosenbrug has just argued that Parlis should also be made publicly accessible. That's a great plan. Technically, I think it's possible right away. My question to Mrs Oosenbrug is as per when it needs to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u142	I've been trying a lot lately to figure out who this is really about. It turns out that we as a Chamber are about this ourselves. The President of the Chamber, Mrs Van Miltenburg, also appointed it in a speech. It is very difficult for me to find out how we can organise this now. Apparently we are dealing with this as a chamber, so I think that we should also arrange it as a chamber. Perhaps we should just talk to the President-in-Office and see how quickly we can achieve this. There's already a beta version online, but it's really horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u143	I think Mrs Oosenbrug has a point there. It seems like a good idea to start that conversation together, because the sooner Parlis is public, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u144	Mr. Chairman. The word is, of course, unreal. Just when you've internalized a little Paris, one of those Hanover stories gets over it tonight. Looks like that worked out okay. There are contradictory reports about whether there really was something going on or not. Things seem to have been found and yet again they haven't. And then such a minister, the minister's colleague, who says: the minister understands the questions, but the answers could upset the people. That'll be a press conference. Nevertheless, we are talking, among other things, about some more trivial matters. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of the Interior may hold a referendum during his term of office. That's a big deal. The referendum is ultimately the purest form of democracy. The people speak, without a filter and without delay. Moreover, the current Minister for the Interior may do so while the Netherlands is the EU's President. I congratulate him on that. Yet the devil is in the details again. Because where exactly are we going to vote on April 6th? The VNG and municipalities point to each other when it comes to the extra costs. In the States of Overijssel, the PVV filed a motion to ensure that there are sufficient voting rooms on 6 April. That motion has been widely rejected. The municipality of Lelystad has already said that it will limit the number of ballot boxes because a low turnout is expected. That's a strange and dangerous argument. Maybe I'm a little too suspicious, but it smells a little like sabotage to me. Isn't there a point? Are we trying to serve the initiative through a back door? After all, it takes a 30% turnout to make the referendum valid. If that limit is not reached in the referendum, it has all been for nothing. Referenda are popular with civilians. At the last referendum, two thirds of the voters showed up. This is much more than in the last EU elections, in the elections to the Provincial States and in the municipal elections. In addition, there were enough voting booths. Will the Minister promise that there will be sufficient resources to keep that referendum genuinely and in an adult manner? Democracy costs money; that's right. However, it cannot be that we make laws here in the Chamber, but that then there is no money to implement them. What will the cabinet do with the results of the referendums? Will it be respected and taken over? If we vote against the treaty with Ukraine by a majority, will that treaty not continue? Paul Tang, the EU Chief of the PvdA, has said so. I am curious to hear the Minister's answer to this question. It turns out that referenda work again. The ink of the referendum law, written in this Chamber, is not yet dry or the first referendum is already a fact. That tastes like more. There may be more referendums on the basis of the above-mentioned law, but hopefully there will also be much more influence on policy through far-reaching referendums, i.e. binding referendums. In addition to responding to existing laws, policy can also be directly influenced. That would be the most beautiful thing. Many municipalities are now faced with the consequences of open border policy. Many municipalities are under pressure from the COA, which distributes asylum seekers. Municipalities speak of a robbery technique. This applies to villages, and that applies to cities. On Monday afternoon at five o'clock, an alderman from Arnhem receives a phone call telling him that buses of refugees will arrive in his congregation the next day. If the city doesn't have a place to stay, they all have to sleep on the street, they're told. This is actually a form of moral blackmail. The COA always bets high. They want to house large numbers at the same time. Those numbers sometimes fall after negotiation. Destination plans are ignored and are completely irrelevant when it comes to housing refugees. Money doesn't seem to play any role in this either. The 234 aldermen already warn finances that there is no money left for vulnerable neighbourhoods, but for asylum seekers it seems that anything can be done. Not only the municipal administration is being defunct, but also local democracy. The city council stands for an accomplished fact. The residents are allowed to chat on a conversational evening where it becomes clear that they do not have a say in the matter. There will be that azc, no matter what the people think of it. Berlin and Brussels govern, not the citizen. This causes more and more people to lose faith in local democracy. Mostly a very large part of the city council is against the arrival of an azc while a very large part of the citizens of such a municipality are against it. What does the Minister think of this development? Does he think this is conducive to democracy and its beliefs? What we need, by the way, is an elected mayor. He would stop such a flow of asylum at the municipal border, as now more than 30 governors in the United States do. They refuse the so-called refugees from Syria. That's because these governors answer to the voters. Like our mayors, they don't have to use proper language to make themselves popular with the elites in view of their next location. This creates a completely different dynamic. Democracy works! I'm coming to the security services. This is a very important subject. The events in Hanover point that out once again. What does it say between us and the barracks? Those are the secret services. To survive naked, we depend on these services. We don't have to doubt that anymore. It is very simple: these services are needed more than ever. We're at war, tell the Prime Minister. Fine. What does that mean in practice? Less than six months ago, the Prime Minister didn't want to say those words, but he did now. 13% of Syrian asylum seekers are in favour of ISIS. We already see what this flow of refugees means for our safety. There are reports that two of the attackers in Paris were refugees. So it was refugee work and the work of Syrians. In the last nine months, 21,000 Syrians arrived. Converted, these are 2,700 fans of ISIS, Syrian fans of ISIS from January to September. That's 300 a month. Our media tell us that they are all refugees and very sad too, but on Friday these theories were tested in practice. Ahmed Al-Mohamed was a refugee. He arrived with a shaky boat on Leros, where the merciful were ready to help him ashore. Friday, he blew himself up in Paris. It is clear what needs to be done now. Boundaries closed and Syrians behind bars.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u145	In the meantime, it also turns out that a large part of these terrorists are people who were born here or who have lived here for a very long time. Where does Mr Bosma base it that every refugee is also, by definition, an ISIS fighter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u146	No, no, no, I didn't say "every fugitive." Mrs. Voortman, I don't like this...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u147	Oh, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u148	...I don't like this way of arguing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u149	I am very pleased that Mr Bosma is fortunately nuanced in his own position, but at the same time...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u150	But that's never been my point, Mrs. Voortman. Let's have a good time!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u151	... but at the same time Mr Bosma suggests...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u152	I'm not suggesting either!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u153	...that by closing the borders we can prevent attacks like those in Paris. That is, of course, the truth if we know that a large part of the terrorists are people who were born here. I would like to know from Mr Bosma how he reacts to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u154	Perhaps Mr Bosma could explain exactly what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u155	With all kinds of pleasure. The cry "terrorists" is very broad, because then it is also about the good old Rote Armee Fraktion or the Red Brigades. "Terrorists" is a very broad term. Jihadists are by definition Muslims and as far as the group of jihadists who committed the attacks last Friday is concerned, although they are still crystallising, Elsevier reports today that there are five Syrians. Two of the attackers and at least one is a refugee who is recognised as a refugee. He was recognized by Greece and Serbia, Mr Al-Mohamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u156	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u157	It is clear what needs to be done now. Close the borders and Syrians behind bars. Then the services may not even have to get additional staff. But now we have chosen the kamikaze policy of open borders, the question is whether the AIVD can handle all this. To name one thing, if you want to keep an eye on one person, you need 30 employees. The Prime Minister actually admits in his letter that we have continued to allow while the screening was brief. A week and a day ago, Mr Schoof of NCTV said that there is no evidence that terrorists come to Europe with refugees. That seems to be very different now. My question to the Minister is what these developments in recent days mean for our security, in Paris, but also now, 'as we speak', in Hanover? What does it mean if this continues with this momentum, this intensity and at least a growing sense of insecurity? What does it mean for the services and what does it mean for the safety of citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u158	Mr. Chairman. Liberté, égalité, fraternité. It is beautiful how these words have inspired us for centuries and express the values of our society. With attacks in Paris, extremists are trying to break us apart and create fear. But as a society, we are resilient, brave. "Nous sommes unis"; we're one. Democracy can't just get underneath it. This is partly the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior, the self-proclaimed guardian of democracy. I am talking about free and open democracy today, first about the AIVD, then about people's access and finally about the position of municipalities. I'll start with the AIVD. This government of VVD and PvdA cut to a third of the AIVD. Fortunately, the opposition has managed to adjust, but there is still a question about the last remaining cut. Co-location of AIVD and STIVD would yield 11 million euros by 2018. A letter came on Friday: living together has been postponed until 2022. That's a few years later. How is that difference covered? Does the Minister guarantee that the AIVD capacity will not suffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u159	Mrs Koser Kaya made a nice observation about the security services and the resources, but perhaps she could look at what was in the D66 election programme. I didn't remember exactly, so it was very good that there was a nice comment in NRC this morning. In the D66 election programme, more and more cuts were made on the security services and the police than has happened in recent years. So it's a bit short on the bend that D66 tambourizes here on her own performances. Maybe it's a good thing that D66 didn't participate in the 2012 negotiations. Then maybe we'd have been further away from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u160	We acted very quickly and then, together with the opposition, made sure that this image was brought up all the way up to the green line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u161	Mrs. Koser Kaya does not comment on my observation. I call on her to take a closer look at her own election programme and the message she wanted to start with in 2012. I think it would be wise for her to get that on the retina for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u162	When we saw that this was not going well, we came first with this and said: we have to solve this. Together with the opposition, we have made sure that the financial problems of the AIVD have been corrected. And rightly so, because our safety is very important. The attacks in Paris once again showed that terrorism is cross-border. Nevertheless, cooperation between European services is failing. What has really improved in the past few months? When are we going to take the step towards a fully-fledged INTCEN as a European intelligence and security service? Democracy is not just guarding liberté. It is also about fraternité and égalité.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u163	We understand that D66 is very much in the sand with regard to cooperation between the security services within Europe. Can I understand D66 here in the Chamber in such a way that it will exert pressure that there will be cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u164	We very much want cooperation to take place. We even want INTCEN to be strengthened. The point is that supervision of INTCEN is very inadequate. That is what we want to do, in addition to ensuring that it becomes a genuine, fully-fledged European intelligence service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u165	But I note that the services are not allowed to work together at the moment. It is being pushed and drawn from the CDA Group, including in Europe, to shape this cooperation. They are now sneaking around in Greece, because there are partnerships there. But if the D66 Group takes the heels out of the Greek sand, we can really make sure that we work together. You can't do that with the current stakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u166	I think that Mrs Van Toorenburg and I can get together very quickly if we ensure that there is an INTCEN that can conduct its own investigations and not only analyses for the foreign coordinator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u167	I am touched by the fact that Mrs Koser Kaya has so much historical awareness. She even starts with the slogan of the French revolution: liberté, égalité, fraternité. But I still have a question. Does Mrs Koser Kaya realise that this slogan was also the slogan of the period of terror? The nobility was taken to the scaffold, the guillotine was invented and there were killings on the assembly line. Maybe we should be a little more careful quoting this kind of fameless slogans. That is what I would like to consider to Mrs Koser Kaya. I also appreciate the growing historical awareness at D66, but D66 has been for almost 50 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u168	We also fight every day in the Netherlands for freedom, equality and brotherhood. I had come to democracy. It is not just about liberté, but also about fraternité and egalité. Citizenship, participation and equality, these concepts are one of the few things that are the subject of his ministry of justice. Today, therefore, I present seven points to reduce bureaucracy and rules. These make democracy accessible to everyone and they give the minister something to do. He is the one who has to start a cultural change. It starts with letting go in confidence and giving officials the space to find solutions. There are too many suffocating rules. An official offering customization is in contact with that resident. The kitchen table provides understanding, not bureaucracy. A project such as the Overijssel method resulted in 50% less objection and appeal cases in five years. That's a big deal. The Minister is also working on an informal approach. What are the results? It is still raining complaints about incomprehensible decisions by unattainable administrative bodies. It turns out that there's often a need for litigation. The Ombudsman is working. Is the Minister also halving the number of appeals and appeals for the rest of the government? How's he gonna get results? That is quite a challenge, because the National Ombudsman recently had to explain that good administration requires the government to name its employees, except in special cases, as a person asking for them. This makes me curious. Has the phone instruction changed everywhere? If I take the test tomorrow, do I get a name? I'm going to talk about who gets my data.nl. When is the provision of personal data from the basic registration finally linked to mijnoverheid.nl? This includes information about what has been provided, the motivation of the request and contact details of the requesting authority. An accessible government also fits in with a different approach to the Public Administration Act. Too often it is abused by the government. The Deputy Editor-in-Chief of RTL News recently listed the tactics. I give a selection: too late answers, without proper justification stretching deadlines, holding back documents, "oh, we didn't know that was the intention." Good officials are being overruled by their bosses and political leaders. This minister is responsible for the Wob. He must stand for the right to information. He should start by opening up his own ministry and show that this is not scary, but beneficial for government and citizens. Surely it has to be done to have 50% less objection and appeal procedures on the Wob within five years? Public involvement takes place when the design is finished and it is called "Internet consultation." Until then, the law of civil servants and lobbyists. In a digital age with highly educated residents, that's out of date. There is also knowledge and expertise outside the government, perhaps more. Take advantage of that! I would like to mention Iceland as an example, for there people have started to write a new constitution. I ask the Minister to take a step forward. Is he prepared to launch a pilot project and digitally open some planned legislative proposals to anyone who wishes to participate? Can we expect a project proposal before the summer? There's trouble. The Municipal Fund changes so often that the municipalities barely keep up; a plus here, a little mint there and that many times. Can the Minister promise peace and quiet? Can the Minister make changes more consistent with decisions by municipalities on their budget? The Minister also refuses to fully compensate the municipal costs for the Ukraine referendum. I understand the anger of congregations about their forced cuts in matters like polling stations. I want to avoid that and have therefore tabled an amendment together with Mr Van Raak to compensate for this. Finally. The Minister has a year and a half left. I filled up the empty boxes, packed them up and fitted a nice bow. Now I want the minister to unpack it and work it out: get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u169	In the debate on the safe public task, D66 has also made itself felt for the centre of expertise. There are now two amendments. I think it would be good if Mrs Koser Kaya could explain the reasons for the second amendment, so that we can also explain to the Registry what order they are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u170	I thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for this question. It is very important that the Safe Public Task Expertise Centre stays in place, especially since it has so much expertise. That's what it's supposed to keep at this time. I have tabled an amendment with Mrs Van Toorenburg to fully cover the budget. I have also tabled an amendment, including Mrs Van Toorenbug, to ensure that at least half is provided by the Minister. As far as the other half is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the commitment he made with the Safe Public Task Expertise Centre to look at payment by others. In this case, it is possible that the employers will take this together with the centre of expertise. I want the Minister to take up the commitment he made. That is why Mrs Van Toorenburg and I have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u171	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is concerned about the decentralisation of care and participation tasks carried out on 1 January. Signals on waiting lists and bureaucracy are piling up. On top of that, 234 aldermen's letter of fire indicates that the border has been reached in terms of cuts that their citizens can bear. The Minister of BZK is responsible for local government and the relations within the levels of government in this country. In doing so, he is also responsible for the success of these decentralisations. That means that GroenLinks expects action from him, on five points. Firstly, there must be one point of contact from the government for the decentralisations for both local directors and the Lower House. Is the Minister prepared to take charge of the contact between the Empire and the municipalities? Does he want to identify where the bottlenecks are, which resolve with legislation and intervene with municipalities where things are at risk of going wrong? Second. Is the Minister prepared to consider within the cabinet where money can be found to remove further cuts planned for decentralisation? For example, youth care is a 4% cut this year, but 12% in 2016. If we already know that 4% is unwearable, then 12% is certainly not. Thirdly, the government must become a reliable partner for municipalities in carrying out care tasks. Fluctuations in budgets make it impossible for municipalities to draw up budgets. That is why we want the budgets for municipalities to be fixed at one time in the year and cannot be reduced after that. Is the Minister prepared to take on the coordination within the cabinet in order to ensure that all the amounts for municipalities are known in the May circular and can therefore no longer be adjusted downwards? Fourthly, the democratic deficit. Since the decentralisations, many municipalities have started working together in regional contexts to improve the purchase of care services. As a result, municipal councils have less and less to say about the way in which care for their municipality is purchased. Is the Minister prepared to consider how this democratic deficit can be resolved? For this I would like to get a solution that is less black and white or whether or not to scale up. I invite the Minister to think outside the box as well. Can he, for example, look at more opportunities to support council members in their work? Can he also look at a possibility to hold unified meetings with municipal councils of partnerships? I have tabled an amendment on this point. Fifth, I note that care is bureaucratized as healthcare providers to provide ten different municipalities with ten different sets of accounts. This is also noted by the General Court. Can the Minister indicate how the government is now in charge here, in line with the Voortman motion which was adopted on this matter just before the summer? The participatory society advocated by this cabinet has not really got off the ground yet. This probably has to do with the lack of will to invest in it. The Do-democracy Implementation Programme has stopped. All activities and knowledge about a social perspective on democracy and participatory democracy disappear. I find this unsellable for a cabinet that gives a great deal of attention to the participatory society. Is the Minister prepared to make a budget for this after all? I have tabled an amendment on this too. Finally, the call for more citizen participation cannot remain with a few hollow words and a series of cuts in the welfare state. We are also concerned about open data. There are plans, but where's the money to carry out those plans? How can I, as a Member of the House of Representatives, be sure that the ambitions relating to the open government are being carried out if there are no clearly earmarked budgets for this purpose? I agree with what Mr Veldman said about the digital agenda. His words were taken from my heart. Finally, I come to the AIVD and the tapping by this security service of communication between lawyers and their clients. In the meantime, the Court has confirmed that this practice is illegal until adequate ex ante review is provided for. I call on the Minister to implement the verdict in full and, pending the new tap law he is going to come up with, to have lawyers' taps checked in advance by a judge. Is he willing to do that? I would like to receive his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u172	Mr. Chairman. I believe I've requested eight minutes, but I see here that I have six.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u173	I think you have a first and a second term. If you want eight minutes before your first term, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u174	That's gonna be a misunderstanding. I have adjusted the text to eight minutes' speaking time. I'll see how far I can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u175	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u176	Then can you start over, or else I'll get pissed off even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u177	I just corrected it, but you're right, and so is the clerk. You're gonna have a fight with Mr Van der Staaij, and we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u178	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I set up my contribution along three themes, security, political innovations and local government. I come first to the issue of security. In the last week, we have been shocked again by terrorist attacks. The situation in Paris frightens people and creates uncertainty. The idea of a safe, open society suddenly changes because of feelings of great uncertainty. Security in our society is not self-evident, we suddenly realize. Evil forces cast themselves in the name of Allah and ISIS in a jihadist guerrilla war. The AIVD has the important role to play in tracking the threats in time. That must be possible. In spring, the General Court took a critical look at the major cuts in this service over the years and drew firm conclusions. We don't have to repeat that discussion. The strong changes in the budget caused instability and difficulties in the implementation of the core task of protecting our society. The SGP likes to hear from the Minister about the restoration of the AIVD. In the meantime, has the strengthening of the impact force led to a more stable organisation? I'm going one step further. With the current budget, is the AIVD capable of getting as far ahead of terrorism as possible? Is he sufficiently prepared to combat terrorist guerrilla actions? I think the Prime Minister was right when he said we're at war. We are at war with terrorist guerrillas. Earlier last week, there was the necessary work to be done in connection with the investigation at the Public Prosecutor's Office into the leak in the Committee for the Intelligence and Security Services, the committee secretly. One of our conclusions is that it seems as if nothing has been done with the 2010 De Wijkerslooth Committee's recommendation that the laws and regulations on prosecution of criminal offences need renewal. That has been noted, but then this has come somewhere underneath a pile. That's what it looks like. These laws and regulations are more than a century old. We are intimately confronted with this. As far as we are concerned, this is also a task for our minister as guardian of the Constitution. What steps has he and his colleague in the field of security and justice taken to implement that recommendation or what steps is he going to take to implement that recommendation? In addition, the role of the police is important. The SGP has tabled an amendment to force district agents to deal with the Police Act. Neighborhood agents are the fountains and are located in the capillaries of society; I admit that this is not such a good picture. They can also feed the intelligence work. Does the Minister intend to work with his colleague in the field of security and justice to finally ensure that the law is implemented on this issue as well? The rule is one district cop out of 5,000 residents. Too often we hear reports that, if there is a district cop, it is 1 in 10,000 inhabitants. It is essential to make serious work of this, in order to gather sufficient information in a timely manner to prevent violence and attacks. I would like to hear the Minister's plans on this matter. My next point is political renewal. Meanwhile, there are several innovations in the field of politics. The precise state of affairs of the State Committee on Parliament's system is unclear. We would like to hear an explanation. It may be good to see what problems arise within our political system. Of course, it is not always easy for the government at the moment to get both Parliament's Chambers, but we should not turn the structure upside down because we have some problems. The functioning of parliamentary democracy must not be dependent on coincidences. The First Chamber is too important to fall prey to alleged disaster response. We trust that the Minister will be able to overcome this delusion of the day, and we would like to see that confidence confirmed. The European Union is trying to tighten the strings with a few tricks. She is suffering from the EU paradox, as I would call it. On the one hand, confidence in the EU as a solution to problems is falling sharply in many countries. On the other hand, as a kind of reaction, the EU institutions continue to try everything to feed this belief cramped, thus reducing confidence even further. Thus, the basis under the EU is steadily eroding. Recent examples of the European Act of Election and the settlement of European political parties make this clear. The SGP would like such proposals to promote the European idea to be dropped quickly. Is the Minister prepared to make a strong commitment to this? I come to my final point: the local government. On the contrary, the SGP opts for strengthening local control. The government chooses the city, with the agenda for the city. That is understandable, but we point out that this must not be at the expense of rural areas. In recent years, the National Association for Small Cores has played a wonderful role in this. Our question to the Minister is in line with a question from one of our colleagues. Is the Minister prepared to follow up on this? From the circle of aldermen attention has been asked for for the local domain. When the plans for increasing the scale of municipalities fell, several colleagues referred to this. The corresponding budget reduction remained in place. The SGP believes that a point is rightly mentioned here. Scale enlargement would be cheaper. Then we should not pretend that this is the case in maintaining the current scale. What possibilities does the Minister see for correcting this, in other words to reduce austerity or to wipe it off the table? The same applies to the strengthening of the local tax area. Are substantial steps now being taken in this respect? The Minister stands for the choice. Will 2016 be the year in which the renewed basis is laid for the intelligence services, the integrated security services and the political relations, both the relationship of the Empire with Europe and the relationship of the Empire with governance? Or will 2016 be a year lost in these respects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u179	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to mention the terrible acts of terror in Paris last Friday and the current unclear developments in Hanover this evening. Everyone has questions and questions are rarely inappropriate, but I do hope that everyone will respect this discussion. The resources for the AIVD have already been increased as the longer-term threat picture gives rise to this. 50PLUS asks the Minister whether the events in Paris give rise to an adjustment. Are the financial resources sufficient? Is there enough human strength? For optimal national security, a well-functioning intelligence service is necessary but not sufficient. A well-functioning police force is just as useful, but the police are being cut back a lot. What are the Minister's thoughts on this? Then there is my second point. Last week, more than 200 aldermen made the call. The rack's out. If the Empire makes further discounts, this will inevitably have serious consequences for the inhabitants of these and other municipalities. These include road maintenance, closure of neighbourhood centres, maintenance of green areas in the district et cetera. This does not improve the quality of life in municipalities. What does the Minister think about this? 50PLUS is also not enthusiastic about the policy freedom that many municipalities have. This leads to large differences in facilities, in the level of own contributions and in the granting or non-granting of domestic aid. What does this Minister think of this policy freedom? Municipalities are important partners throughout the decentralisation process, which we were not so enthusiastic about. How does the Minister assess the petition of the 234 aldermen who have to carry out his plans? 50PLUS has more questions. How can municipalities fulfil their tasks in the short and long term well with the fickle financial policy of the cabinet? Does the Minister think it is normal that municipalities should be forced to increase local taxes, which is happening on a large scale at the moment? How does he assess the aldermen's claim that some of the discounts on the Gemeentefonds are poorly substantiated? Can municipal reclassifications also contribute to a more efficient use of financial resources or not? What is the situation with regard to the 16 municipalities that are in the financial danger zone, as the answers to the written questions showed? We're curious about the Minister's answers. Third. 50PLUS wants to use this budget to draw attention once again to carers and their support. In dealing with the budget of Health, Welfare and Sport, we have tabled an amendment to add additional budget to the Municipal Fund to strengthen respite care and daily spending for people living at home. The corresponding amendment has been tabled to this budget. Fourth. Two years ago, 50PLUS once asked questions about age discrimination in car insurance. A study carried out by the Consumers' Association shows that this is still happening. There are fewer insurers who refuse older people on the grounds of age, but there are still four. And that's four too many. Most of the others charge generous contributions for seniors, up to 129%. Then I don't mean 29% extra, but they really charge more than double, namely 129%. While according to the Centre for Insurance Statistics, older people between 66 and 76 years of age do not pose a greater risk than younger motorists. Do insurers actually base their acceptance standards on the statistical data collected or do they constitute age discrimination? I'd like a response. Discrimination on gender, orientation or origin falls within the competence of the Minister of Education, Culture and Science. Age discrimination, on the other hand, falls within the portfolio of this Minister, the Minister for the Interior. How right is this distinction? For digitisation, I join the CDA. That party voted against it. As it turns out, that's not unwise. We voted in favour because in the end we are not opposed to digitalisation, but it has to be done under conditions. We have to make sure we don't lose the citizen. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Fifth. Tomorrow the inhabitants of different municipalities can go to the ballot box in connection with the municipal reclassification, including in the new municipality of Gooise Meren. These elections hardly received attention in the national media. That's good. After all, these are local issues. In regular municipal elections, that's different. They're mostly like interrogation polls for sitting cabinets. 50PLUS has already proposed to spread municipal elections over four years, so that local elections are truly local elections. How does the Minister feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u180	Mr. Chairman. A ghost was throughout Europe, so Karl Marx wrote in his manifesto about communism. For decades after that, peoples have suffered from that ghost. Even now there is a ghost around, not only through Europe, but throughout the world, from the Middle East to Africa, from the Far East to the United States. I'm talking about the ghost of the jihad, Islam in its most violent form. The disgusting mass slaughter in Paris by suicide bombers and by fire by kalashnikovs is the momentary low point of a war that is going on. It is a war of deranged Islamic extremists who have turned their virulent hatred of the West into pure evil. They wage a war against our way of life, against our openness and, above all, against our freedom. The world is shocked, but can't be surprised. Due to the enormous immigration flows of recent decades, we are increasingly seeing in the West, in our own cities, the clashing civilizations that Professor Huntington talked about twenty years ago. Freedom of expression, separation of Church and State, equality between men and women and homosexuals and heterosexuals are values that do not exist within Islam or are merely flawed. Fortunately, many Muslims unite the Western ideas of freedom with their beliefs of life by rejecting or interpreting certain passages in the Qur'an. However, the link between the massacres in Paris and the source from which they arise cannot be denied. The ghost of the jihad is part of Islam. Ghosts are based on delusions. They're scares. Looking away in fear is the worst thing you can do. We must completely destroy the delusion of IS and other Islamic extremists, by all the means available to us. That must be a top priority right now. After all, security is the central task of the State. Therefore, substantial investment is needed. Here, when the BZK budget is being discussed, I am calling for two concrete measures: an additional 100 million for the AIVD, for which we have also tabled an amendment, and the introduction of administrative detention for terrorist suspects, as my group has been saying since the beginning. The AIVD, our intelligence service, has been weakened in recent years, even so much that it was announced at the end of last year that the service had to borrow staff from the police to keep an eye on jihad suspects. The General Court indicated that previous cuts have left deep traces with the AIVD. The consequences will be felt for many years to come. Former intelligence analysts indicate that the Netherlands is not prepared for terror; and that at a time of war. The AIVD must be at war strength, but the information position of the AIVD does not seem to be in order. According to the Security Service, there was no signal that IS terrorists entered Europe via the asylum influx. However, everything points out that the terrible attack in Paris proves otherwise. With the growing threat of terror, the still rising number of jihadgoers and already 40 returned extremists, the service must be at maximum strength. Is the Minister prepared to make an effort to deny jihad-goers access to our country by definition? If not, can he guarantee that the current capacity of the service is actually sufficient to monitor and keep a concrete picture, without the help of the police, in the sense that there are men being removed or borrowed from it? I hope that the somewhat naive VVD group will pay attention when talking about administrative detention. Friends of democratic states such as the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom already have the possibility of pre-emptive detention of suspected terrorists on the heavy evidence provided by intelligence services. After a six-month period, an administrative judge checks whether there is a need for renewal. Especially in view of homegrown terrorists and the large group of returners, this is a means that is needed. Just closing the borders is not enough. Is the Minister prepared to commit to this? The Prime Minister has rightly indicated that we are at war with ISIS. In this context, the law of war could apply. This means that jihadists under Article 4 of the War Penalty Act could also get a life sentence in addition to denaturalisation. I'd like the Minister's view on this. I'm closing up. The Netherlands is at war with Islamic State, but the intelligence services are not at war strength. We are at war with an enemy who wants to destroy our way of life, but the Netherlands does not seem to use everything to destroy that enemy. Karl Popper already pointed out the tolerance paradox of open society: intolerance cannot be tolerated. Let us therefore start with an additional investment of 100 million for the AIVD and the introduction of administrative detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u181	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to take up the issue of the internal affairs budget in order to raise a number of issues relating to internal administration. Municipalities stand close to the citizen and give people the opportunity to influence their own living environment. That is an important liberal political starting point. First of all, I would like to talk about the difficult financial situation of many municipalities, where many people are directly affected. Beautiful weather in the cabinet, autumn storms in the municipalities. The causes are versatile. Firstly, we are dealing with undesirable accumulations and discounts. These reductions are, among other things, the result of the decentralisation plans and their implementation by this cabinet. As everyone knows, since January this year three major policy areas have been on the board of the municipalities. This transfer of tasks was accompanied by substantial cuts. For 2015, it meant a reduction in the total budget of 2.4 billion euros. In other words, municipalities themselves had to carry out the tasks for significantly less money. Initially, the municipalities enthusiastically picked up the glove. Municipalities support the freedom of policy granted to them, and rightly so, because it is close to the citizen. They are also the appropriate level of administration to carry out those tasks. Certainly, as by far the largest political party in the city, local parties have the strength and support to get to work and deliver tailor-made work. However, from the Empire there is an increasing rate of austerity imposed. The budgets for the various decentralised tasks are constantly adjusted downwards. And that is what the municipalities should not abandon in the performance of these tasks. After all, they are legally obliged to carry out these tasks. My group cannot escape the impression that the Minister, with the decentralisations, is increasingly throwing a lot of financial problems of the Empire over the fence in the municipalities, even though he has repeatedly argued the opposite. My group therefore asks the Minister whether he still insists that this is not the case. Does the Minister still believe that he is pursuing a fair, sincere and fair decentralisation policy? Moreover, because of the unfavourable redistribution effects, municipalities are also regularly confronted with additional budget reductions. As a result of so-called objective distribution models, which do not take into account the reality in many municipalities, these discounts can amount to as much as 30%. As a result, many municipalities are at risk of falling into a negative spiral. In municipalities that are already struggling, the thumb screws are turned even harder. The question to the Minister is: how does he expect the municipalities to break this negative spiral? The Minister may think it's not that bad. After all, in the fiscal state of the Municipal Fund for 2016, he still cooks with the low number of Article 12 municipalities that would currently exist. However, that number will be likely to change rapidly next VNG and provincial supervisors. What is the Minister's reaction to this gloomy prophecy? How is he going to prevent more and more municipalities from having to sit on this penal bench, and has this been taken into account in budgetary terms? Moreover, the government's refusal to remove the scaling-up discount could put pressure on this penalty booth, which is an extremely unfair discount, because municipalities are not being scaled up at all for the time being. That is easy to remove: almost EUR 1 billion in the coming years with nothing to do with. A motion from me to abolish the scaling-up discount has therefore already been tabled this afternoon, with solid coverage, at the examination of the Tax Plan. I assume, in view of the input this evening, that certainly the SP, D66, the CDA and GroenLinks too this motion in part No. 88 to support it. In response to the question as to why the cabinet is so keen to hold on to this absurd discount, the cabinet responds that, I quote, 'this discount is fixed in the government agreement and that the amounts in the government agreement are leading the way for the implementation of government policy'. I'd like a few more. Does this mean that the cabinet claims that it has never deviated from the coalition agreement itself? One look at the past shows a completely different picture. In fact, the ink of this leading chord hadn't dried up yet or much was already being done. This accumulation of reductions, so-called efficiency gains and budget cuts must be stopped. It is not the municipalities, as Secretary of State Wiebes of Finance said this afternoon, but the people in the municipalities: stripped-up facilities, less domestic help, and that with higher taxes. Last week, colleagues in the Chamber referred to it, and they were allowed to receive the letter of fire from the 238 municipalities. The boundaries have been reached. It is time for the Empire to assume its responsibilities instead of shifting tasks without a proper budget attached to them. Can the Minister promise that he will in future be prepared to provide municipalities with a decent, realistic budget for carrying out their legal obligations? My group therefore believes that it should not be the case that the cabinet lets municipalities, the people in the municipalities, so everyone, take the blame for its own inability to get the state finances in order. We also read in the press about the large reserves in the provinces. Let us reject the idea of plundering the provinces. The cabinet should not now look with covetous eyes at what the Province Fund could yield, looking forward to a chance to take some of that off and then throw it as a handout to the municipalities. No, the cabinet has to do its own thing. Can the Minister undertake to exclude shifts for the benefit of municipalities by the Province Fund discounts? They would then have to be recovered through these reserves. In my group's view, it is quite possible to deal with this, because we have the 5 billion extra available, as we have known for many hours. The President has also been able to see part of the debate on how we are going to distribute the 5 billion. In this context, it would also be fair to have the municipalities, i.e. the people, informed about these possibilities. In my view, it is absolutely not desirable for municipalities to be forced to fill this gap in the budget by increasing, for example, municipal taxes. Thus, the reduction of the burden promised by the cabinet for the citizen becomes a blank. After all, the cabinet can play nicely again, while the people through the municipality still get the cost for their choices due to higher municipal taxes. Away with the ideas of the VVD and the PvdA. Apart from this unfair accumulation of discounts, municipalities are also faced with unexpected interim adjustments every once in a while. Those adjustments have a tendency, moreover, it will not be surprising to turn out to be negative rather than positive. More stairs-off than stairs-up. It is no exception that municipalities are asked three times a year to adapt their budget to the whims of the cabinet. Local authorities are clearly expected to absorb fluctuations in both time and money. These fluctuations lead to a high degree of unpredictability and instability of the municipalities. That's the municipalities a thorn in the eye. The traditional standards system does not work properly anymore. My group therefore wonders out loud when the Minister will throw away this outdated principle and apply a stable and predictable method of granting benefits from the Community Fund. We will remain in the local tax area for a while. It is well known that the precario tax on utilities is also a thorn in the eye of my group. These are hidden taxes imposed by the municipalities on the electricity and water supply networks running through their territory. It is a tax which will impose a considerable burden on citizens, as utilities are obliged to pass this tax on to everyone. In the past we have therefore proposed, with the support of the Chamber, to work towards abolishing this ridiculous tax. This proposal was adopted by the majority, based on the idea that the municipalities would then be compensated through the Municipal Fund. On a regular basis, the Chamber has heard weak promises, in the vein: we will soon be discussing this with the VNG. But then it was awfully quiet for a long time. In recent years, as many as 98 municipalities have approached drinking water companies with plans to levy precario tax. It can be imagined that the more municipalities levy such a tax, the more difficult it will be to abolish and compensate it. In addition, not only the number of municipalities levying precario tax increases, but also the extent to which municipalities do so increases dramatically. A look at the budget of the Municipal Fund shows that this levy increased by as much as 22% on average in the last year. It is time that something was done about this. My group therefore calls on the Minister to come forward quickly with a legislative amendment. Two other issues. First of all, a matter of a completely different order, but of great importance to my group, namely the constitutional review under Article 120 of the Constitution. In March of this year, the House discussed the Green Left's own-initiative proposal which proposes that, in addition to the legislative power, the judiciary should also be allowed to review the Constitution. My group has always been in favour of this proposal. Free-minded politics applies the basic principle of the trias politician. From that perspective, my group is in favour of the constitutional review by the judge. However, this reasonable proposal by GroenLinks seems to have been made by the VVD, but we are only in the first period in the process of being torpedoed by the VVD. The objection is that the Chamber, the legislature itself, must review. However, practice shows that the Chamber does not do that at all. Let me give you an example. Recently, the Media Act has been amended, a law which, in my view, conflicts with Article 7.2 of the Constitution, the article on freedom of expression, which allows censorship on radio and TV. No one in this Chamber who said anything at the time; nothing was said either from the Chamber or from the Cabinet. Apparently, everyone was asleep. It was also very late, but that does not mean that the constitutional review should be omitted. In the meantime, I have tabled a motion to the House to allow the cabinet to reflect on this in writing. This motion is likely to be put to the vote shortly. In addition to the above, my group proposes not only to work on an idea of a constitutional review committee from the Chamber of Representatives, which in my view is a very strange model, but also to do something as a Chamber itself, by including a constitutional review in the explanatory memorandum of each legislative proposal or initiative proposal in addition to the implementation test and the legal test. We would like to hear the Minister's response to the proposal to introduce a constitutional review. Finally, I come to the Tickets Act, a law that could use some adjustments. My group already has some ideas for that. I have already tabled two legislative proposals. We will come back to that at a later date. The state of play regarding electronic voting is still unclear. This is better for people, better for the municipalities and better for our democracy. Another idea is the motion that I have already tabled to the estimates for the House of Representatives. I held it then to hear from the Minister another judgment. In this motion (34123, No. 27) it is proposed to amend the Election Act on the issue of the re-establishment of a Chamber after leaving the Chamber on its own initiative during the same parliamentary term. With the exception of a switch to a regime position, my group considers it completely absurd that ex-Room members, while initially closing the door behind them, should be able to walk back in the same parliamentary term. Membership of Parliament is a serious matter. Members of parliament sit on these blue seats because they are elected to do so. My group is of the opinion that, under the motto'stand up', outgoing Members of Parliament cannot simply return, but must once again test their chances at the next elections, just like everyone else. I look forward to the Minister's response to the motion that has already been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-23.u182	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The debate on this budget will continue tomorrow at 3.30 p.m. The Minister will then reply on behalf of the government.
