ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment isn't here yet, but I see she's just coming. So go ahead, Mrs. Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Helping vulnerable people to work quickly and well, ensuring that they are not sent from the locker to the wall and not a bureaucratic circus. Those are the goals of the new Participation Act. But now a great bureaucratic circus has emerged. That is the cry of a PvdA alderman, Mr Depla. The municipalities are more concerned with rules and administration than with helping vulnerable people to get a job. The municipalities do not belong to guidance, coaching and helping people get started. That's not supposed to happen. Eindhoven alone claims to have lost about €750,000 to the rule forest. For all municipalities you will soon talk about 30 to 40 million euros, according to Alderman Depla. That is money that is much needed for these vulnerable people, but which is now about bureaucracy. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. Will the Secretary of State immediately talk to the municipalities to see which rules are superfluous? Will she also see how much money is released by abolishing these rules and so can be spent on helping people get a job?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. These are two very clear questions. The Participation Act was launched on 1 January last. Since 1 January, together with the municipalities and the social partners, we have made a number of improvements around the no-risk policy, around the mobility bonus, around the students of the special education that linea recta can go to UWV and also about the fact that municipalities no longer have to deal with all 393 separately with the UWV. So I am very much in favour of improvements where it can be done. I am also very happy to do this together with the municipalities and the social partners. If Mrs Koşer Kaya asks me if I would like to look together with municipalities to see if I can make matters simpler and clearer on this part too, the answer is: follow-up. There is, of course, one but, and I am very much in favour of Mrs Koşer Kaya sharing it with me. It is, of course, about people who have to be treated individually, because all people are different. That must be done as objectively as possible. I will see the aldermen from the 35 labour market regions tomorrow night, and I will be very happy to talk to them. The second question is whether, in the event that this simplification of rules would now produce money, we will spend it on the people concerned. That is, of course, always on the agenda in this context. The answer to that may be "yes," but first there must be a real plus to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	Just to guide people individually, you need that money. It is important that this money is spent on people rather than on rules and hassles. The Secretary of State says he's going to talk to municipalities. I would like her to speak a little more broadly than just a few municipalities. I would like her to table with the VNG and to send a letter to the Chamber soon in which she indicates the outcome of that discussion and what solutions there are to remove those rules. We then have a debate on this on 29 October. As far as I know, the spokesmen of the PvdA and the VVD do not want these rules, which do not help people but which create more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	In my first answer, I said that I am in continuous conversation. This is also happening in the context of the so-called Chamber of Work, in which the VNG, the social partners, the UWV and we meet, also on this part. When it comes to the determination of wages and salaries, it is important to see if things are to be simplified. If so, I'll be the first to let the Chamber know if we can continue with that. But then we must have had that meeting in order. However, the meeting of the Chamber is not immediately on the role. I will see if, after my meeting tomorrow with the aldermen of the G35, I can send a letter to the Chamber on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	Now let me get this straight. I am glad that the Secretary of State will send us a letter tomorrow in which she will indicate whether any rules can be taken away. However, that is not clear enough. I also want to know how much money is involved and what we can do with that money to help people get to work. The success of this law is extremely important. You need to adjust things in time if you need to, and you need to keep the finger on the wrist. I would also like the Secretary of State to answer my second question and include in the letter what can be done to remove those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	The Second Chamber of the States-General, and also the First Chamber, has agreed to the Participation Act. Mrs Koşer Kaya's party also voted in favour. There is a reason for us to include in the Participation Act matters relating to the determination of wage values for people who can receive labour costs subsidies. That's very clear. Now Mrs Koşer Kaya asks if we can look again at that part of the Participation Act. I am, of course, prepared to do so, but I would add that we cannot, of course, provide this part of the law with something new on an afternoon's notice. I have just promised that I would be happy to send a report to the Chamber on the meeting I have tomorrow evening with the aldermen of the largest cities. However, this does not necessarily mean that the whole chapter around the wage valuation is exit. In fact, I'm not going to assume that either. I go into conclave with my partners, my fellow governments, and I will tell the Chamber what results, but I cannot say in advance that we are saying goodbye to the wage valuation, as this is an essential part of the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	It is also important for the success of this law that we take a good and timely look at what is happening in practice. That is what I am asking the Secretary of State. If it means that rules lead to bureaucracy and if the money involved does not go to the most vulnerable people in society, then my question is to the Secretary of State to look into it and tell us about it. If she can indicate this in her letter to the Chamber, we will continue to discuss it on 29 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	There is nothing left for me but to point out, once again, that I am always keen to check with practitioners whether our regulations work properly, whether you can work with them and whether it is the right instrument. We have already done so many times. We have very recently made the Participation Act more enforceable in two parts of the Chamber. I mention the mobility bonus and a number of other instruments. In short, I have already promised that I will gladly send a report from tomorrow's meeting to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	The introduction of the Participation Act has been accompanied by a cut of 3 billion on employment and income, but also by a bureaucratic monstrum, which was also approved by the Chamber by D66. My question is: can the Secretary of State send us a report to answer the following questions for the next debate on the Participation Act? Question 1: Is this indeed a law that contributes to equal opportunities and additional jobs for disabled people? Question 2: How does this relate to the 70,000 jobs planned to be removed in the social employment service and how many jobs have been replaced? Question 3: What implementation problems do municipalities experience and what costs are involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	We have a general consultation on the Participation Act in the week after the autumn recess. The questions that Mrs Karabulut is now asking will of course be raised there. The Chamber knows that we have already planned an evaluation of the Participation Act. These questions will, of course, also play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	We are talking here mainly because of the comments made by a party colleague of the Secretary of State: Staff Depla, alderman in Eindhoven. It is just a proposal, but is it conceivable to make Eindhoven a kind of testing ground to see what it would be like if we took care of it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	I am not only with Eindhoven, but also with a number of other municipalities in conclave, to see if we could carry out a number of experiments within the experimental space already enshrined in the Participation Act. It is always good to see whether you can complete the rules, but to the letter and the spirit of what has also been changed in the Chamber. I think that is the answer to Mr Krol's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	I thank the Secretary of State for her answers and for coming to the Chamber.
