ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	I received written answers from the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport to questions asked in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	These are written answers to a large number of questions, including the written response to a number of amendments tabled, but not to all amendments. We will therefore keep track of whether these amendments are intended to respond at the end. Of course, amendments can still be tabled. The Minister is already quite ready, so I give her the floor for her first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. In recent years, there has been an enormous amount of discussion about our healthcare system. Often these were discussions with a high ideological content, one extreme being that our healthcare system would be a kind of paradise, and the other extreme being that it would not be right at all. The reality is that health care in the Netherlands is good, but certainly not perfect. It can always be better, and it has to be. The reality is that we have worked hard on a system that now contains all the elements to keep care good, accessible and affordable for everyone, but in practice we do see problems that patients and healthcare providers face. In the years to come, let us not get bogged down again in ideological discussions about major changes in the system, where neither the patient nor the health care provider will benefit in practice. Much better it is to deal with the problems in practical terms. The general practitioner's programme is a good example of this. This summer, there has been intensive talk of quality, cooperation and regulatory pressure. For years there has also been talk of regulatory pressure, and everyone could tell us exactly what regulatory pressure should be abolished by others. However, regulatory pressure comes from all parties; from VWS but also from the sector itself, from the scientific associations, from professional organisations and from insurers. Rules are also made with the best intentions; for better quality or for greater efficiency, for better spending of the euros or for better informing the patient. In recent years, in previous Cabinets and in this Cabinet too, we have had ambitious targets to reduce this regulatory burden. We measure them very faithfully. We note with each other that the regulatory burden is falling, but the people in the care that do the work do not notice much of it. It was really time for a different approach. Last summer there was a turning point. The general practitioners discussed with insurers, with the Dutch Healthcare Authority, with the Authority Consumer & Market, with patients and with VWS. Not from the shooter's pits, but for a good conversation. What do the general practitioners encounter in practice? Why is that? Is that rule still necessary? Does this form make any sense? Is this indicator actually relevant to the patient? Because checking nine times is no better than once, and it doesn't benefit, then it hurts. We can make much more use of professionals themselves. They can judge each other more sharply than anyone, with visits and mirror information. Trust in each other is important then. You need to be able to relate to the other, and you need to make clear agreements. Such a journey is very intensive and time-consuming, but it is also the only way to really reverse the tide, just to look at it: what is bothering people in the workplace and how can we remove it without failing all these beautiful goals? And "we" isn't just the government, but we all are. That approach appeals to me. That is why we extend this approach from the general practitioners to those parties who also find this an attractive perspective, for example physiotherapists or psychotherapists. They also run into regulatory pressure, they are also working on quality and they often think in cooperation: well, I don't do it because I'm sure it's not allowed by the ACM. That's often wrong. They too are now going to table together to look each other in the eye and solve it, with each other, so with insurers, patients and other caregivers in the first line and where necessary also with VWS. They do so in order to remove unnecessary rules, to have more input into the contracts and to be able to cooperate better in the interests of the patient. I have a lot of faith in this route, which is certainly not easy. I also want this practical approach for older people who live longer at home. The number of 80-plussers has doubled over the last 30 years and will double over the next 20 years, while the number of people living in a nursing home has halved. So you know that a lot of high-age people still live at home. That's nice. Your own house is most familiar and you want to stay there as long as you can. This can often be done with the support of the general practitioner, home care, family and neighbors. This is possible because people stay healthy and self-reliant for longer. Thanks to good medicine and good treatments. Innovation can do that. We can make much more use of that. People sometimes think of all kinds of caricatures about technology, for example that technology is cold and cold. However, research shows that people feel safer when they can call a health care provider. They don't even have to do it, but the fact that they can do it already helps. A pilot shows that older people are excited about a care robot, because it gives you freedom and privacy. It does not replace home care, but as a valuable addition to home care, for those other hours of the day. I'm glad that if I ever need to, I can check remotely to see if my mom is taking her medication. Along and around each other are not replaced, but supplemented by technology. There are a lot of beautiful initiatives that support people's self-reliance and make care better and cheaper. Often these beautiful finds hang in a pilot, or they only come from the ground locally. This has all kinds of causes: ICT problems first, but also cold feet and unfamiliarity in healthcare professionals and patients. Also, questions and concerns about information exchange, risks and funding often hinder a real breakthrough. In this respect, too, we must work together, not only with the creatives and the good-looking heads, but also with patients and doctors, because they must eventually use it. Legal knowledge, investors and insurers are also needed. That's how you scale up. That is why we are working on a network in which all this knowledge is present and with which start-ups can benefit from the beginning. A lot of older people are good at home. Innovation will make it even better in the future. But they're vulnerable. It's fragile. If anything happens, a fall, for example, those vulnerable people get into the hospital. Time hasn't stopped there either. Thanks to medical innovation and health improvement, many treatments are much less radical. That's how people get home faster and faster. In the 1970s, the average length of lying was 16 days. Now that's just over five days. In geriatrics, the length of lying has decreased by a third. In some knee surgery, it is even possible that you can return home within a day. Well, that's nice, but when you're very old, hospitalization isn't a bad thing. Then it is really necessary for someone at home to keep an eye on things, and home care is usually not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	I would like to return to the Minister's introduction. It does not say that it is ideology and that we should, above all, not change the system because we must remain practical. However, it was the VVD that said in 2006 that the system had to change. If there is an increasing debate about whether this system is effective and useful and whether it does provide everyone with the care that is desirable, then the Minister says: let us not discuss it, because it takes a lot of effort and effort; let us remain practical. Then she often comes up with reports from the Euro Health Consumer Index. That's a sponsored club that doesn't quite stand up for its conclusions either. Now there's a report from the OECD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	What is your question, Mr Van Gerven? This is a very big contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	That's just to sketch it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	That doesn't take four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	This was not four minutes; just over half a minute. So I want to go to the OECD. He has published a report on the healthcare system in the Netherlands. He is very concerned about developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	I want you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	That's what I'm getting at, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	Now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	I would have asked that question a long time ago if you hadn't been pushing me like that. The OECD says that there is an oligopoly and that the health insurance system has a lot of negative effects. Would the Minister care to comment on that? If there is criticism from the OECD, is it not desirable to examine alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	It's not something from the past few years. Before the Health Insurance Act was introduced, a health care system was discussed for 30 years. Every care debate has always been about whether there should be compulsory basic insurance or whether everyone should be privately insured or whether we should be working with a safety net. The question was often whether we would get poor people's insurance against a rich private system. Really, from the beginning that I have been concerned, the discussions were mainly ideological. The Health Insurance Act has been in force for ten years and we have been discussing systems for ten years. My conclusion is: let's stop doing this for once, because the patients and the people who work in the care sector have so little use for it. Let us look at this in practical terms. One says you can't work together in this system because there's market forces. The other says that there is no market operation at all and that you can work together. So let's just look at what people run into and practically take it away. That's my call. Mr Van Gerven is really an artist in selective shopping in research. During last year's debate, we received many studies from the SP which we had to put one by one in context. With investigations, you have pros and cons. The OECD says that perhaps there should be more than four insurers. The SP wants one insurance company. That's no more, but less, so there's nothing left to choose. For the time being, let us not go down that path and concentrate on the issues that people are encountering in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Van Gerven, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	The system is based on competition. It's like the firefighter, in this case Minister, set the fire himself and then says we need to see if we can do something about it. We've had that system for ten years now. The VVD has had ten years to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	The OECD notes that this is the second most expensive system in the world. That really depends on this system. The basis of support in society is only decreasing. There is no support for competitive health insurers. We will soon be given the circus of advertising campaigns, the fight for the insured. People just want an organisation that provides good care and doesn't want profit or wants to make it as cheap as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	I want you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	My question is whether the Minister would like to acknowledge that what the SP is proposing is possible. I would also ask her to acknowledge that it is a good thing to investigate this, given the declining support in society for this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	The position we take on the OECD list is mainly due to long-term care. Mr Van Gerven can see that too, because he has studied all this well. If you only look at curative care, the Netherlands does better than Belgium, France and Germany. The Netherlands is taking a middle position in this area. In terms of results and accessibility, the Netherlands always scores sky high and in terms of cost very average; not number two and that is because of long-term care. The Secretary of State has done something about this, not with the full support of the SP. If you're the second highest on the list, you're gonna have to do something about it. Long-term care is the cause. Mr Van Gerven, be honest about this in the introduction to your question. Mr Van Gerven also talks about the transition circus and the loss of acceptance. The SP keeps saying it costs more than half a billion, but it is known that that is incorrect. The SP is counting on everything. If I call my insurance company because I have a tick bite and ask him where I can go best for Lyme disease, the insurance company will lead me to the best hospital. These costs are included in the SP, but that is information on healthcare content. The actual amount is not yet one tenth of the amount mentioned by Mr Van Gerven. If you blow up the amount ten times, of course you won't get support. That's true. I think we should stop making what is there a caricature. We need to look at the quality of care provided by this system. I note that we are doing very well then. Are we there? No, not at all, because there are a lot of things to improve. I'm halfway there and I haven't listed yet, but everything can always be better. Let's focus on the things patients run into or health insurance companies say: change that, look at that practical. We have started this year, and I really want to do so next year. I recently spoke to the relatives of a high-age lady. She was 93. For a while, she was wondering how much longer she could live at home. She tripped over a table and ended up, a little confused, in the hospital. Medically-specialistically, not much could be done for her. She too could quickly leave the hospital, but the question was where to go, because the neighbor was also 92. The request for a short stay in the nursing home got stuck in the system. Meanwhile, this lady stayed in the hospital until there was a spot. We all know that being in the hospital doesn't make you any better, but worse. That lady, of course, needed temporary shelter aimed at recovery and return to self-sufficiency. There is, because in many places you can see all kinds of first-line beds, sometimes with the general practitioners, sometimes with the hospitals, sometimes with the nursing or nursing homes. There are special care hotels and accommodations for people like this lady and many others. But she was sent from the locker to the wall. Fortunately, she ended up in a nursing home, where she had a good time before she died. With all the good will that's almost always there, you can see that people don't know how to find each other. That there is a great deal of knowledge about vulnerable elderly people but that they are not used. People think things aren't allowed when they're allowed to. That the insurance company doesn't pay for it when it can. That we don't use the possibilities we have. There is no need for new systems and no need for new rules. Patients weren't helped with that. But we have to make sure that people know how to find each other and that we tie everything together. I see that as a very practical task. That's why a group of VWS people get to work on this kind of problem. I'm just calling it a practice team. These are people with knowledge of the Long-Term Care Act, people who know everything about the Health Insurance Act, the Wmo, cooperation and competition. Because there can be much more than expected. There are also people with expertise in the first line, district nursing, social neighbourhood teams, with financial and legal knowledge. These people know that if something is happening in a particular region, which also played in another region, and they have been able to solve it fine there. This practical team is now being set up and will be operational by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	I think this is a very good way of working; very practical. Will this practical team also look at the problem of the wrong beds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes. Through trajectories that we go through, we have found that in several regions, especially the elderly, are in hospitals for too long. So they are lying in the wrong bed and should actually go to a first-line bed. This is the first task to be undertaken in these regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	This is a very good start in replying to the Minister; thank you for that. Are we only focusing on the elderly, or are we also talking about confused people or people who are vulnerable for another reason and who are dealing with different payment titles?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	We have started a Kafka journey, in which one goes with a patient in a hospital to see what someone runs into. That's where this came out. Then we did a session, sort of a debriefing, about how. The transfer nurse talked to the emergency room, the insurance company and the CIZ. Everyone has contributed to this. In addition, it was seen that one finds one another badly and that one thinks that things are not allowed by rules or because they cannot be paid. I therefore want to start very practically with it. This was an example from the Zaan region, but I imagine it is said in another region: we do not have this problem, but here we have another problem; team, come and see it. All knowledge is present on that team. I do not know what to call it, and I call it a practical team to pull things off when they are stuck in a region. Another good example is Zeeland. I've called everyone around the table. The health insurance company has been instructed by all the people sitting at the table to start a journey there. Now, under the leadership of former colleague Eke van der Veen, a team is in the process of looking at how in Zeeland care can be reduced so that it is also guaranteed for the future, with the ageing population. That's a completely different assignment, but there's the same idea. So it's not tied to a subject for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	No, we'll do it in two, Mrs. Bouwmeester, as always.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	I was just wondering who's in charge and where people can come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	I understand you're wondering that, but we'll do the questions in half. So the Minister does not answer this question and simply continues her speech. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	The practical team will become operational and will start work at the request of people in the region who indicate that they are running into something. The team is made up of people from VWS. There are therefore no additional costs, additional charities and additional consultancies. It's just our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	In addition to Mrs Bouwmeester's question, my question is whether the Minister can indicate who is in charge and where people can report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	Well, then, even though I wasn't supposed to, I said so. VWS is manning the team itself. So it is not about external agencies, it is about people of our own and knowledge of ourselves. If a region encounters something, she can report to us. It may be that a hospital, an insurer or a home care institution indicates that something is not working. In this case, it was the Kafka route. Everyone must take their own responsibility, but we then organise the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. The changes in care are going very fast. Even some cancer treatments can now be given at home. There are alternatives to heart valve replacement that prevent people from having major surgery. There's more and more. The changes in society are also moving very quickly. Not only are there more elderly and chronically ill, but people are also much more empowering. People require more care and often rightly so; hold control of themselves, even if you are sick. Deciding, knowing what your options are. It all changes and patients are the driving force behind that change. That requires a great deal of care and it is good to recognise that with each other today. There is more cooperation than ever, which is also important to mark. Care is in full swing. There is much more thought in networking and working together, including with the patient. You can also see this coherence very clearly in the part of the concern that is about deciding together. Making decisions together is crucial. It's only natural for you to decide together. After all, it's about your own body. So can you control what's happening to your body, what's a side effect? If I like listening to a lot of music and a side effect is that I'm losing my hearing, then maybe I'll choose a different treatment. It's crucial what kind of life people live, what their hobbies are and what kind of work they do. So our efforts are also focused on joint decision-making. Research also shows that people then make much better medical choices, better follow the treatment advice. This is good for the quality of care and for affordability. A better position for the patient is at the heart of the 2015 agenda and will be in 2016. People need more knowledge. Which institution is best for me? What doctor? What are my treatment options? That's another thing you have to do. People sometimes ask: what is the target for the quality indicators registered at the Quality Institute in the year of transparency? That's not the right approach. We have already paid a lot of tuition for that in the past, because if you strive for more, you get more, too, until you don't see the forest through the trees. And that doesn't help patients. That is why I did not opt for a number of indicators, but for a number of diseases. These include the 30 most common conditions, such as breast cancer, colon cancer and chronic renal failure. We want only those indicators that really say something about quality, not on top of it, but instead. So it is also important to clean up and clean up. Then I come to the financing chapter. Of course, care costs money, lots of money. We bring that together, to income, because we have the income-dependent contribution and care allowance. The user pays up to €385 in 2016. The system is designed so that we control macro costs as much as possible so that the premium remains affordable and own payments do not increase too high. The Netherlands has relatively high healthcare expenditure compared to other developed countries, but this is mainly due to high expenditure on long-term care. If we look only at curative care, the OECD statistics look very different; the Netherlands then takes a middle position and does better than Germany, France and Belgium. We have to keep paying attention to the costs, because it's great that more and more can be done in healthcare, but if we can't afford that, then it just stops. Then we can't give people those innovative drugs. Then there is no money for new cancer treatments tailored to the individual with more chance of success and fewer side effects. Yes, Mr President, I very much agree with Mrs Dijkstra that we need to use innovative diagnostics, that we can use treatments targeted at people for whom it really works. In these diagnostics you see several, incredibly promising developments. Before the end of this year, I will come back to this explicitly when it comes to the regulation of medicinal products, in which this takes a prominent place. Because of these developments, we will only give patients those medicines if they really work. That is a huge benefit for the patient, because a lot of patients are taking medicines that just don't work but have the side effect. So that will have a huge significance for the quality of life of these people. Appropriate use, which also saves costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	The minister mentioned the affordability of care. She says: it's great; I just want to summarize it in my words. But how can it increase the number of people who cannot pay the premium that year and now have risen to 333 000? How then is it possible that more than 800,000 people will have to make payment arrangements in order to be able to pay the contributions? Shouldn't steps be taken to change that? Will the Minister also comment on her statement, which I would like to remind you, that it is really about the content of the care and that the money needed to do so should be adjusted? The question is whether the current system, which the Minister is defending in this way, will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	I wanted to come up with that right now. If I do, you can ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	Let it be agreed, let the Minister speak and when she is done with this piece, Mr Van Gerven can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr Van Gerven referred to the fact that I said that the content is paramount and the money should always be included, but affordability is not a pleasant side effect in my view. Affordability is not an ideology, it is really a condition for care. Because we have a system of solidarity, there is the health allowance for the lowest incomes. On average, the people with a minimum income pay less than €40 per month. That includes the average own risk. This is less than the lowest income paid to the sickness fund ten years ago. We also have schemes at local level for low-income people. We have decentralised the compensation scheme of our own risk and the law on compensation for chronically ill and disabled people. This year EUR 216 million went to the Municipal Fund for this purpose. This amounts to 268 million euros in structural terms from 2017. Municipalities can spend this at their own discretion, for example on a contribution to the premium of people who participate in a municipal collective. In almost half of the cases, such a municipality policy includes a payment scheme for its own risk or reinsurance of that own risk. In addition, municipalities can offer tailor-made solutions in case of distress. Yet there are people who don't pay the bounty or say they don't go to the doctor because of their own risk. Should we create further arrangements? That is actually the question that Mr Van Gerven is asking. I think it makes more sense to see who these people are and how we can show them the way to what is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u38	Maybe now the Minister's gonna tell me what I want to ask about. I asked for some kind of awareness campaign because very often people do not know at all what this is all about and what they are entitled to. That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u39	That's what I came up with, but I'll tell you right away. A very important group we call the young adults. I think that's really crazy, because that group runs from 18 to 35 years old. I don't think a 35-year-old person is very young, but maybe I'm insulting people right now. In that group, you see relatively many contributors. These are often people who are in debt, by a mobile phone or by stacking up problems that are also encountered in other areas of life. So you can't reach those people with a folder, you can't reach them with a Radio 1 campaign, because they don't listen to Radio 1. And so we are going to approach those groups in which it is very common, much more specifically. Where are they in contact? That's on social media, that's on YouTube. In addition, we see this accumulation in certain neighbourhoods. Then we'll just go into those neighborhoods with stalls. We ask the care institutions in the area to bring their message forward, but we will be there to tell them what it is like and where people can actually find help. Some people read harder and understand it much better in a question and answer interview. Finally, as part of ten years of Health Insurance Act, we will provide general information campaigns aimed at the whole population. So we do it by target group, but we do it for the whole population. What's the deal? No, there's no personal risk to the GP. We will continue to provide this kind of information intensively this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u40	I assume that it will also clarify the basic package and the supplementary package. On the one hand, this is, of course, a task for health insurers, but on the other hand, they must also state that they do not determine what is in the basic package. People don't know that at all. I would therefore like to take it very broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u41	Yes, that campaign for the target groups is really focused on the problems in those groups. I forgot to mention that we will also involve the social neighbourhood teams. They should be able to provide much more tailor-made information in people's homes. In general, we will explain the basics as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u42	The Minister has mentioned a number of measures which she is taking to keep people's contributions affordable. But how can it be that the number of people with payment problems has doubled over the last ten years, as shown by figures from the Ministry? The minister says the care allowance is there for the minima, but the middle incomes pay the top prize. There is no care allowance for them. Can the Minister also comment on the fact that the number of claims has fallen? There is less claim to physical therapy, to ggz and to dental care. To do so, people need additional insurance and these premiums have increased by 40%. To have a full package, you have to make additional insurance and then you really pay the top prize. That is also a reason why it is not affordable and a reason for our proposal to halve its own risk. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u43	The number of claims has not decreased, but increased significantly. Years ago a number of things were removed from the package, but in recent years that has not happened. Every month new medicines and treatments come into the package. I sign for that all the time. The innovation that continues ensures that the package stays up-to-date, so that everyone can use it and it is not put separately in private insurance. The number of claims has thus only increased. The demand has only grown. We have an ageing society. The number of 80-year-olds has doubled over the past three decades. We see that more and more people are using the care and yet we know how to keep the increase very limited. Of course, the number of defaulters is always too high. Mr Van Gerven says that the number of contributors has doubled in ten years, but the number of insured is also much higher. Earlier, of course, only the health insurance fund was measured, because you didn't have to insure yourself at all. This whole group of people was not in the numbers at all, but has grown in it slowly, because the whole population is now covered by this law. In terms of percentage, the number of defaulters has remained the same, but there are far too many. For that reason, I have made a law, which is now in the First Chamber, to prevent people from becoming dispayers. I took a zipper of action on that. Yes, the premium increases from year to year. This is because we are not cutting back on healthcare, while healthcare costs are still growing. The care costs are paid out of premiums, so the premiums grow. Mr Van Gerven is right about that. We know how to spare the lowest incomes by means of measures which actually make them pay less than they paid to the sickness fund ten years ago. The middle groups have seen their care premium increase, but because we always take measures, often not with the support of the SP, to keep the care affordable, the middle income ultimately pays a very reasonable premium for what they actually get for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u44	The middle incomes pay the top price in this system, because they do not receive a health care allowance. It would be a credit to the Minister if she acknowledged that her own figures show that the number of people who have problems with paying the care premium has almost doubled to 8.7%. I say it by heart, but those are the Minister's own figures. The so-called "dispayers' group "that term' is actually not correct because there are a lot of people in it who simply can't afford it, and there are 333,000 people, but there are many more. Why doesn't the Minister acknowledge that? The Minister says she does not want to talk about it, but regardless of any ideology, she must also recognise that more than a million people have a real payment problem. What's she gonna do about it? I ask this because it does not accept the SP's proposals to halve and eliminate its own risk or to switch to income-dependent premiums. It does not want this for any reason, even if it would be very social and solidarity. What does the Minister propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u45	Care costs money. That's a certain amount. It is now paid out of premiums and partly out of its own risk. You can say "we make it easy for people by eliminating their own risk half or completely" but then those costs are still not gone. They just come on top of the bounty that has to be paid every month. If you finance care through taxes, those costs will of course not disappear. Those taxes should just be paid by those same people. What they paid through their premium first, they pay through their taxes. I have, of course, looked very closely at your plans and their employment effects. Desastreus! People who work then pay taxes and premiums to keep it affordable for others. But these SP plans really lead to a huge squeeze in employment. It is really very unwise to do it this way, because we are dealing with an ageing society. Yeah, the number of defaulters has grown. Is that what I'm worried about? Yes. I am just saying that the percentage is equal to that at the time of the sickness fund. That's what you've been able to see. In recent years, we have had an ingrowth system because the entire private market was added. Yeah, there's a problem. If there wasn't, I wouldn't come up with a law. I have passed that law through the Lower House and it is now in front of the Upper Chamber. There is a whole package of measures to reduce the number of contributors. I think there are too many of them, and so I am referring to the reduction in the number of contributors, but this does not mean that the costs are reduced. Those costs should simply be borne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u46	I'm particularly concerned about increasing one's own risk. Over the past five years, this has more than doubled, from €165 in 2010 to €385 in 2016. I'd like to know if that's what the Minister's concern is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u47	Those are political decisions. In the spring agreement, which I'm sure you're also aware of, your own risk has been increased by €115. In the health care allowance, this is then fully compensated for the lowest incomes. After that, we have not had separate increases in our own risk. We've only dealt with indexes. That's what the law says. The surcharges are indexed and thus also matters such as their own risk. But this indexing is also partly reflected in the health care allowance. The indexing of a tenner is thus compensated for the lowest income in the care allowance. That doesn't mean I'm gonna brush away the fact that you have to bear that risk entirely if you don't get a care allowance. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u48	Maybe the Minister can take away some of the unrest in people. Now we've seen what it's going to cost for the last five years. Does it dare to predict the cost of its own risk in five years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u49	In recent years, we've indexed it, which means we're letting it go with the wage and price adjustments and the cost of care. These are the elements by which the own risk is calculated. That is how we do it with a lot of government regulations. For example, family allowances are also indexed annually. In recent years, we have not taken a political decision to reduce a greater proportion of the premium by placing it in its own risk. We didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u50	The Minister makes it clear that she does not want to take up the risk. She's quite satisfied with the way things are going. That is what we differ on. In her reply, the Minister states that she expects much less money to come in if you go to work according to the system I proposed yesterday on behalf of the CDA, namely to work with constantly steps of €75. Her answers say it's a reasoned assessment. In other words, the Minister's officials have thought carefully about what the behavioural effects could be. Is the Minister also prepared to make an exact calculation, to see if what she has reasond on the basis of assumptions is actually true? Does it see any possibility of doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u51	You'll always have a reasoned assessment because we didn't introduce it. You won't know what the real effects are until you enter them. However, the effects we are seeing now amount to nearly 1 billion. So you're gonna miss €1 billion if you switch to that €75 with a maximum of €375, as you suggested yesterday. That's a huge hole. This will always be an assessment, even if I ask the CPB. Then perhaps it will be more precise because it will be counted longer, but it will always be an estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u52	I am aware that it is always an assessment, but as I understand the answer, it has now simply been reasoned and not calculated so much. I would like to know what such an exact calculation will be, because this financial information will enable us to continue the discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u53	It's calculated, but of course it's calculated in one night. You say I'm satisfied with the current risk, but I was actually more satisfied with the no-claim. Unfortunately, it has been abolished by the Chamber. The beauty of the no-claim was that it was never a threshold for people to use care. Anyway, it's been abolished by the Chamber. I'm willing to calculate different variants, but I'm just getting a card saying that this has already been done in Care Choices in Map. Let us take a look at what exactly is in that. If it's been calculated, what you want has already happened. If it hasn't happened, I'm fine with asking the CPB to calculate different variants, because we're all always struggling with the way we can do it best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u54	Maybe you could let me know in second term if that's already happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u55	Then I'll see if that's over or not. It's also always a reasoned assessment by the CPB, but I'll let the Chamber know if it's done or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u56	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u57	Several questions have been asked about prevention. Prevention is better than cure. That tile wisdom is just for everyone, but that mission is greater than what the government alone can accomplish. This is everybody's business. That is why we have the national prevention programme Everything is health. A good health care provider will always provide information about prevention. If someone with heartburn and high cholesterol is in the family doctor, they can give a pill to bring down cholesterol and slow down stomach acid, but they will also have to talk about stopping smoking, moving a little more and eating healthier. That's my problem with the 1%. That 1% is what you explicitly do about prevention actions, what you have cleaned out, but the whole care is of course intertwined that there is continuous interaction between the doctor and the patient during treatment. The doctor has to say, if you want to have less trouble, you have to do something like that. A physiotherapist will send you home with a program to gym. If you do your exercises, you'll be done faster and you'll feel fit faster. This prevention is all intertwined with our concern. That's the way it's supposed to be. In the report of the Advisory Committee on Innovation Care Occupations & Training, prevention occupies an enormous place. That report is about the care that we can best organise in the future, so not about care that has been conceived by the provider side. That report really looked at what the patient needs in 2030 and how we can organise care so that the patient gets it. There is a huge place for prevention. The idea of the policy now being pursued is that we make the healthy choice as easy as possible. Technology also offers us a lot of opportunities. You can put anything in a flyer, but apps and fun games appeal to people a lot more. The games industry can be of great importance, even in prevention, but prevention is much wider. It's also about your living environment, good cycling routes with broad cycle paths, for example, because then you take the bike to work. Then you dare to let your child go to school on a bike. It's not for nothing that Dutch people ride a lot of bikes. Try that in New Delhi. I tried that. Then you see that doesn't really invite. That is the opposite of prevention. You have a workplace. Nowadays I also have him: the desk bike, not to sit still, but also during work not to be constantly static. In public buildings and offices, architecture is also very important for prevention. The elevators are always in the walkway and the stairs you have to look for. We have to turn that around: the stairs must be in the walkway and the elevators should be looking for you. In my view and that of the cabinet, it is far too close a view that prevention is only a matter of concern and that we are going to solve it with a fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u58	This is a good point to ask, although the disadvantage is that if you wait a little longer, that also raises more questions. The Minister states that it is much wider and that, for example, it has to do with how your architecture is designed. What is this minister going to do about it? Will she discuss with her colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst, for example, whether building regulations should be amended or whether something should be done about the legislation on this issue? That's what I'd like to know. My interruption was initially about the prevention fund. I also see that insurers are not currently being encouraged to invest in prevention. Of course there are many areas of prevention, but I do not think that there is enough specific investment in prevention. A fund like that would help. Is the Minister prepared to look at what is now hindering insurers to invest in prevention? If there's another way to do it than through a fund, I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u59	A lot of things affect whether you're in your skin and whether you're healthy or not. Food is a very important one. The program Everything is health so does not focus on one part. It's not just from VWS, but it's cabinet-wide, so it's also Agriculture, I and M and Social Affairs, because you can do anything about movement and health at work. It is a government-wide programme, in which we have stimulated all kinds of civil society organisations to make their point. For example, one of the ambassadors, a very well-known architect, indicates what is wrong in buildings, causing people to move far too little. We are trying not to narrow it down, but to broaden it. I also think it is a non-argument that insurers are not encouraged to invest in prevention. 94% of insured persons do not switch, so investing certainly pays off for an insurer. We have promised the Chamber to investigate payment titles in the system, not only in the Zvw, but everywhere. How could you do that for prevention? That was a motion from Mrs Wolbert. As I have also indicated in the answers, we come up with a result. Then we can discuss financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u60	The Minister can find a non-argument why insurers do not want to invest in prevention, but it is a fact that it is not happening now. I'm looking for ways to encourage them to. I therefore repeat my question. What does the Minister intend to do about it? How does it ensure that insurers invest in prevention? Maybe she's already said it, but I'd like to hear it again. When can we expect the plan All is health?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u61	The plan Everything is going well. At the beginning of next year, we will come to the Chamber with a letter of progress. As far as insurers are concerned, something has happened. Precompetitively, we have joined forces on diabetes, not only the insurers, but also the medical organization and the patient organisation, so everyone involved. I think that is an incredibly beautiful development. People have started with diabetes and want to add other chronic diseases to it. I think that is very important. Furthermore, the possibilities for payment titles are examined. That note will come in January. As a result, we can then see whether there are any steps to be taken to improve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u62	The Minister gives a very nice picture of the importance of prevention. She writes in the answer to the questions that prevention is an important focus of policy. A little contradictory to that, I think that it is primarily a matter for the citizen himself. Apart from that, the Minister also points to successful initiatives on which she intends to take action. As far as I'm concerned, one of those successful initiatives is The Healthy School. Will this initiative be able to be extended in the coming years? Maybe I should put that question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u64	Then I'd like to hear it from him later and leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u65	We'll do it together, so if it's okay, he'll go into that. I put the citizen there on purpose, because someone decides whether he moves or what he stabs in his mouth. I do think it's a spearhead of policy to seduce someone to live much healthier life. Both can be true: it is primarily the people themselves who decide it, but we do everything we can to make the environment so that a choice for healthy life is an easy choice. As I said, the Secretary of State goes into Healthy School.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u66	I'll save that question for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u67	Fine. Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u68	The Minister says that a prevention programme for the elderly is not appropriate in her view. We don't think nothing's gonna happen either. But the government itself admits on the site that it's all very fragmented. Then you can transfer it all to the municipalities, but it should be much better coordinated. Surely the government could take on that task?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u69	Once every four years, a national prevention note is published, which is translated into municipal policy by municipalities. By the way, I see great things with regard to the elderly, and you probably do too, which are not only very healthy, but also socially prevent loneliness. What I find much more interesting is that I can promise the Chamber that I will pay particular attention to the elderly in that note. Because that is a growing group, where a lot of health benefits can be achieved, for example by moving more. However, it seems very unwise to write separate notes by target group. But I can promise you a separate part of that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u70	The Minister has made me very curious about that note. When I hear and see her bet like that, that should be a very exciting note within that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u71	It is precisely in that note that we are looking for continuity of policies, so that municipalities can build on them. I'm doing my best not to disappoint you. By the way, the Secretary of State and I are working together on that note. A letter was sent to the House of Representatives with a plan of action for confused people. I am extremely pleased that we are also opting for the personal and practical approach here. What do these people need? If there is a danger to others, how can we protect society? The chasing team includes people who can do it together: patients, ggz, health insurance companies, prosecutors, police and all other parties involved. They look at where things are going well and take this as an example for the regions where things are not going well. They talk to people who have experienced psychosis themselves and who know exactly what is needed. That's the best school in school. But in practice it is very important that we can treat people in time before they go wrong. That is why next year I will come forward with the legislative proposal on compulsory ggz. It is incredibly important to deal with that law as soon as possible, because we can only use the current BOPZ when people need to be locked up. It is not a treatment law, and that will be the law mandatory ggz, which allows you to treat people at a much earlier stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u72	The Minister has now moved to the BOPZ. I had another question about prevention, which has to do with the population survey on familial hypercholesterolaemia. The written answer states that it has always been intended that the investigation into this inherited factor that causes too high cholesterol levels would be temporary, and that people who are diagnosed with it will now find it within their families themselves. However, it has been found that from the moment the investigation is stopped, of the more than 5,000 people who have been tracked down earlier in the year, only 300 people have been found. They can now be identified with a very simple DNA test. If you're gonna do that by other means, it's gonna have to be done with a very complicated, expensive test. That is why not only from the group that conducts this research, but also from the general practitioners' organisations and other health funds are asked to take this up again, because in the long run this will bring enormous savings and health benefits for all those people who have been at great risk since birth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u73	The problem with that is a bit like this. You're putting on something temporary to put it on track properly. Then it ends, because it's been set up and mapped, and then it's a matter of continuing. Then you also arrange that it can be done free of charge. It's not like we're suddenly asking for money for that. So that can go on. If you always let everything go through to the infinity, there is never room to start up new things again. In the meantime, of course, we have started all kinds of new things. That's the thing about this field: you start new things up, and the other things have to run on their own at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u74	But new gene mutations are constantly being discovered that contribute to this. If you stop doing that, and tell the field to take care of it on its own, a lot of people will be missed. That's not what we all want, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u75	I didn't do it on my own, of course, but on the basis of the advice of the lectures that always advise me on these matters. I will go back to Mrs Dijkstra's arguments, their questions to explain why they put an end to this, so that we can discuss them again later on the basis of that data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u76	You were working on the BOPZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u77	With the law mandatory ggz we can get a treatment law instead of a detention law. Unfortunately, the situations we see every day indicate that there is a need for this new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mrs Bruins Slot has a question on this point. Is it convenient if we let the minister first...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u79	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u80	This was the last thing you wanted to say about that? Then I'll give Mrs. Bruins Slot the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u81	After three years of debate with the Minister, I can see when she's finished the cubes. I share the Minister's view that the Law on compulsory mental health care is very important to ensure that we can provide good care to people with mental illness living at home. I fully share that view. The Minister calls on the House of Representatives to deal with this law very soon, but can she tell us how long we are now waiting for the letter of amendment that the Minister is preparing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u82	It's very difficult to put these laws together. The BOPZ Act took 30 years. We've been working on this law for five years. It also makes sense, because it is about very fundamental things. That is what we will be discussing in the debate on the legislative proposal. There is, however, a need to treat it. Why did that happen? Because there were new things happening all the time. Is the bill finished? No, because when the bill is under discussion here, we'll come up with another letter of amendment, but I don't want to wait for that. This letter of amendment is the result of the case-Bart by U., which was euphemistically formulated, on the basis of which we found in this Chamber that a number of things should be changed. However, we have also noted with each other that we are not waiting for the law to do so again. So the law goes on now. The state's attorney's office, the district attorney's office, is getting another role. Anyway, the room knows that. That's what we talked about. I do agree with Mrs Bruins Slot that it takes a long time. Sometimes it's longer in the room. Sometimes it's longer with us. This is often because there are new insights again or because a professional group has devised something new that needs to be included. With the best of intentions, we can keep each other busy for a long time. I see speed for myself as an assignment and I hope that the Chamber will also want to make pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u83	I have just made that remark consciously, because care is also important. Just over two years ago, we asked questions. Later we got the Minister's answers. In fact, the Minister has been working for two years now to fine-tune that law further. Can the Minister agree that if we get the bill from her, we will take the time for careful consideration? I have heard the Minister make a call to the Chamber several times in the media to deal with the bill carefully, but I believe there is a shared responsibility here. The Minister has taken quite some time to do it carefully. I think that's very important, too. I assume the Minister sees that the Chamber must also do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u84	Sure, but it doesn't have to be mutually exclusive. That's the point. I made that call to myself, too. I therefore did not pass on the letter of amendment to all the Councils again. As is well known, the legislative proposal has been before the College for Protection of Personal Data and the Council for Justice for a long time now. They also need their time again. I chose not to do that with the note to keep the hallway in. So I will try to speed it up myself and then offer the Chamber the letter of amendment, so that we keep the course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u85	And finally, the Chamber itself determines the pace of handling a bill, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u86	I also have a question about this law. There are always a lot of safeguards in this type of radical measure. However, "a lot of guarantees" also means, if you are not careful, a lot of forms and lots of communication, with all the risks of that. At the end of the journey, will the Minister also take a very special look at whether, with all good intentions, it will in practice become so complicated and so complicated that we will all sigh again about the administrative burden that this entails?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u87	That, I think, will also be an important element in the treatment here. It is a matter of compulsory treatment of people against their will. That's a big deal. Mrs. Bruins Slot said for a reason that you all need guarantees for that. However, the law must also remain workable. In practice, you see that where you make it too complicated, it is not workable. We will have to talk to each other about exactly that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u88	Fine. We're gonna pursue that discussion. I come, more broadly, to the problem of the confused people, which we have indeed discussed a number of times, namely in the debate on the report by the Hoekstra Committee and in a general discussion. I believe that there is broad agreement here that we must keep the momentum in that process. It's a good thing that chasing team is here. My question is: are we going to take action right away and get in touch with signals such as the signal from the Salvation Army a few weeks ago about the problems it sees in his reception?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u89	On the day that the Chasing Team offered us, me and my colleague from Security and Justice, its plan of action, we had already received the signals from the Salvation Army. I asked the team about it, too. They indicate that they are responding to such signals in order to involve the parties concerned. Those parties not only give the signals, but can also discuss how it is to be solved and what is needed. That's exactly the practical way the hunting team wants to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u91	There's a lot to do. It is not a question of major system discussions, where patients and caregivers do not get along well, but rather of a practical approach. That's our bet. We've been working on that in a lot of places. Of course, we will continue to do so in 2016. There were a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Van Gerven, before we begin the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u93	The minister's bringing up the system again. She's not for that. But why is the Minister proposing a system change or is she in favour of a system change in the ambulance services?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u94	I am not in favour of that for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u95	The Minister has two variants examined in her plans, if I understand correctly. The first is to continue in the current way. The second is to have the ambulance services carried out by the health insurance companies. This is indeed a clear change in the system with regard to the organisation of ambulance services. This care is then left to the health insurers, who may or may not be able to award it. You'll get the whole circus. Why is the Minister not prepared to investigate the public variant, which is widely supported by the paramedics themselves? That's what the Minister should be talking about. Then she should talk to the staff and not just the bobos who think differently. If she's going to talk to the staff, why doesn't she investigate that variant if it's not ideologically driven?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u96	That is a very long story, to which I can give a brief answer that Mr Van Gerven should already know. We have a temporary law paramedics. Why is it temporary? Because it wasn't EU-proof. So we need to find a solution. For the moment, I have not found that solution, otherwise I would have already tabled a bill. I'm not waiting for big changes at all, but I can't leave it as it is, so I'm gonna have to do something at some point. When I lay that egg, I come to the Chamber, not because I am waiting for a change or a system change, but simply because the current law is temporary and therefore not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u97	I would like to come back to the basic package for asylum seekers. A basic package covers the necessary medical care for every Dutch person and the content of the basic package is the same for every health insurance provider. What is different about asylum seekers, which means that they have to have a more basic package than the Dutch? The definition of "basic package" is simply that it contains all the care someone needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u98	I think it is important to emphasise here that care for asylum seekers runs through the Ministry of Security and Justice and not through the Health Insurance Act. Expenditure on this does not therefore depend on the premium that we know in our system. Within the system of Security and Justice, it is determined what customization is needed. Only when people are status holders and can actually stay here can they pay contributions and come under the Health Insurance Act. The same applies to housing and labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u99	I have a $20 note here. It doesn't say which budget that belongs to, V and J or VWS. It doesn't matter to the citizens how they pay, does it? They're paying. They pay for the care of asylum seekers. They pay for a basic package for asylum seekers that is much more extensive than their own basic package. I repeat once again that the first twenty physiotherapy treatments that a Dutch chronically ill person needs must be paid for by himself. For an asylum seeker, they're free. Glasses, contraception, maternity care: all things for which a Dutchman has to pay, face his own risk or pay his own contribution, and those asylum seekers get free of charge. I repeat my question: shouldn't the basic package be equal for everyone? Then why does this cabinet ensure that asylum seekers have a super-de-luxury basic package and Dutch people have a much more sober basic package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u100	I started by saying that this falls within the scope of Security and Justice, because Mrs Klever has to be in that budget if she wants to change anything about it. There we go. It is very difficult for me to do anything in another department's budget. That's why I started it. The scheme has been set up as it is set up, bearing in mind that an asylum seeker cannot work. He cannot therefore decide to provide additional insurance and to pay for it. After all, we say to asylum seekers: you get a certain amount of money to live on, but you are not allowed to work. It will then be customised, which will then be necessary for the temporary situation in which an asylum seeker is in proceedings. It is also a short period in which that is valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u101	Just for clarity: I think maternity care is just in the basic package, but that aside. I am pleased that the Minister says that people who are insured, whether they are Dutch or status holders, have access to medical care. I have another question about the situation of people who have become status holders, but who are still in an asylum-seekers' centre, because they have not yet been given a home. We can expect that group to grow in the near future. I have asked before whether it is possible to draw a parallel with the arrangement for people in prison. They are not insured either, because they are not covered by insurance, and there is a separate scheme for them. Wouldn't it make sense to apply such a scheme to people who are already status holders, but who are still in the asylum-seekers' centre?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u102	This situation is now up to date and is becoming more topical. In the written answers I indicated that we are looking for a solution. I will take Mrs Voortman's suggestion, but we do not yet have the solution, because I would have already mentioned it. I'll take the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u104	I think the Minister wanted to start with the amendments. I take it that she has come to the end of this subject. She nods, so I'd like to ask my question. In my first term, I dealt with inclusive society. I have read the written reply of the Minister and the Secretary of State. It says that they do not agree with me that there would be a signal for a less inclusive society. Period. Then there is a very technical answer about good care, action options and so on. There is, however, the following. When we talk about the NIPT, people with Down syndrome read that also the newspaper. They're wondering, can I still be there? We can see that the number of euthanasia cases is increasing, for example in people with dementia. People are wondering: am I now also a burden for society? People don't feel welcome. I would very much like the Minister, and perhaps the Secretary of State, to reflect on this, because in fact the Minister did not go into this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u105	What Mrs Dik thinks is a technical answer is a deepest conviction for me. So you can see how it's different. I am incredibly in favour of people making their own decisions. People need good, neutral information. I have spoken to Mrs Dikk about this before. We are doing everything we can to achieve this, in a way that Mrs Dik thinks is neutral. But in the end, the answer I have given is not technical, but a deepest conviction. I have said it before: everyone in this country is welcome. Anyone born is welcome. It's not like people are bothering. That is not the society we stand for. I have said this several times in the Chamber. That is also a deepest conviction. Those two things together are hopefully sufficient reflection for Mrs Dik. It's definitely not technical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u106	I appreciate the Minister's answer that everyone in society is welcome. However, I note, for example, when I open the newspapers or when I talk to people living in nursing homes, that inclusive society is under pressure. That society is under pressure from medical-technical developments that we make possible with each other. On the one hand, medical developments do indeed offer us a great deal of progress. Prenatal screening certainly has good sides, but there's a downside to it. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to that downside. There are groups in society who, due to medical developments, wonder what that means to them as pregnant or as a lonely older person in a nursing home, perhaps with dementia. These are questions that are currently being raised. We can't change this by motion; I understand that, too. However, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to this. We must be aware of this in all public communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u107	I agree with the latter. We need to be aware of that in government communication. That's why I talked to parents of children with Down's syndrome. They found the RIVM information stigmatizing. I didn't read that, but I might look at it differently. That is why I had them watched, so that we could give the information as factually and neutrally as possible. I agree with Mrs Fat. That's what I've been trying to do. I think that is very important. In the end, I think that people who choose to take advantage of the medical and technical developments and make choices that may not be Mrs Dik's choices do not say that people are not welcome when they make other choices. Society shows diversity and everyone can find their own place in it. We have to make sure of that, too. It is therefore up to us to always say in our own stories that everyone is welcome and that everyone has a free choice. Everyone has a free choice to do such a test and to draw consequences. Everyone has just as much choice to say: I do not need that test, because everyone is welcome with me; I make a different choice. We have to deal with this diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u108	In addition to other parts of the budget, this is also a good topic to discuss. Does the Minister recognise the idea that you can sometimes do people too little justice in a subtle way, even if you really want people to participate inclusively? I'm referring, for example, to people with Down syndrome. I've just had a wonderful group visit from people with Down syndrome, when I always thought I should go to them before, because they couldn't come to The Hague. That was very stupid. Why did I think that? But I actually thought so. It was something special that we just had a group visit here. It was a wonderful visit. Aren't those subtle forms of "not part of it" questions even more attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u109	There are programmes on television that show that we have a label on that group. We have all kinds of judgments about those people as a group, while they're all individuals who happen to have Down's syndrome. There are also people who are very sick and who need much more medical care and attention. They actually suffer a lot more than the group we see on TV. I don't feel very at home with the sticking of stickers anyway. It is a diverse group of individuals with their own preferences and their own need for care. I think it's very important to carry that out. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about the group visit which Mrs Dik-Faber also mentioned. That's an experience. On TV there is attention to this in all kinds of different ways and we can also do something about it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u110	I'm gonna go into freedom of choice. Recently, in a debate on euthanasia, I noticed that people from the NVVE and the like also understand people who opt for euthanasia in difficult circumstances, because they do not want to burden their environment and because they are chasing society at costs. I personally have a great deal of difficulty with this, but others say that these can be arguments. How does the Minister view this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u111	I think looking after each other is a very important theme, even today. We all came from very small communities where everyone knew each other and where good neighbourly relations were perhaps more common. Now that many people live in cities, they live more alongside each other. This means that looking at each other is still a very important issue. With social neighbourhood teams and care networks, we must try to make more connections, so that people do not fall between shore and ship. When I was at work in Enschede, I was asked if I found it interesting that everyone over 70 gets someone there who offers a trap training. An incredible number of people say surprisingly enough: yes I do. And after the fall training, they go swimming with each other, playing cards or doing something else. So we all play a part in that. Society cannot be organized by law and regulation. We will all have to make our contribution. We cannot accept the argument: yes, but then people have to come to me and then I am too much. That doesn't change the fact that people can decide that things are different for them. For example, they can find suffering unbearable and make another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u112	I see that Mrs Bouwmeester and Mrs Voortman themselves arrange the order together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I believe that the Minister is giving very worthy answers to the questions on this subject, and that is what this issue deserves. Apart from the fundamental discussion you can have about this, I myself, as a pregnant person, have experienced that hospitals offer the NIPT massively on a detour. This results in women who have €600 left over via the Belgium route with the help of Dutch hospitals getting the NIPT and people with a lower income who don't get it. The longer a decision is postponed, the more your wallet will indirectly determine whether you can do the NIPT or not. That seems to me to be an undesirable situation. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u114	I myself find the situation surrounding the NIPT uncomfortable. I'm bound by laws and regulations, as you know. So I can't decide without the Health Council. It makes an advice that I really have to wait for. But I find it uncomfortable myself, because I know how things are from the practice itself. There are ways it's very legal. We have a free Europe; you can go wherever you want. There are also non-legal ways in which the inspection should actually monitor. We made a deal with each other for a reason. I wouldn't mind speeding it up, but the Health Council is independent. I asked them to speed it up, but that's what I depend on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u115	I would like to address another but no less important issue: including top sports. I know this minister has a great heart for top sports by people with disabilities. I think that the written answer to my question about the wheelchair hockey team is too limited. I have expressed my concerns about the fact that the Dutch Hockey Bond indicates that it no longer has any money to fund the top sport team for wheelchair hockey and at least to ensure that it can participate in the European Championship in 2016. The minister says, "I'll talk to them." But of course it is the team that won the World Championship and the European Championship. I'd be very sorry if there wasn't a solution. I therefore ask the Minister to at least arrange for the team to participate in the European Championship. That will be next year and a decision on participation will have to be taken in the very near future. This is an occasional amount of €50,000. I would also like to ask her to talk to the hockey league about how we can ensure the wheelchair hockey properly structuralally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u116	On a healthcare budget €50,000 seems very little, but on a sports budget it is very much. I also think it is too easy to assume that the government would be up and running if it were to stop. I would like to have a short talk with the Hockey League about why this is happening and see if we can find a solution to that. But I am not going to anticipate that by saying: we will solve it. I believe that the hockey association itself has a responsibility in that regard. So I'm happy to start that conversation, and I'm happy to get back to you about it, but I'm also expecting some of the hockey league.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u117	It has taken us a long time to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. That's what we're gonna talk about in a couple of weeks if it's okay. Now it seems that our people, the ruling champions, may not be able to participate in the wheelchair hockey tournament at European level. I would really love it in a European context if that were not to happen. So I would like to ask the Minister if she can really do her best to ensure that our wheelchair hockey players simply participate in the European Championship so that they can be European champions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u118	In addition, I ask the Minister: you have said that you will discuss this. Could you let us know before the legislative consultation on sport?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u119	I will, and I want no misunderstanding. I've just released a lot of money for handicap sport or parasport; whatever you want to call it. I think it is extremely important that we do that. So I've made a lot of money available for it, but I don't think you can just slide this stuff off in one go. So I want to start that conversation; I think that is important. I also think that we should make every effort to do so. I will therefore also refer the House back to the legislative consultation on sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u120	Antibiotic resistance is very rare in the Netherlands because we have done very well here. Doctors prescribe antibiotics reluctantly and very focused. That is why we in the Netherlands have little problem with this. But now RIVM warns about the MRSA bacteria in asylum seekers and says that hospitals always have to screen asylum seekers for that bacteria, and to nurse them in isolation. This costs €3,000 to €20,000 per treatment extra. Why does the Minister not screen asylum seekers for this MRSA bacteria when they enter, because the consequences can be very far-reaching for antibiotic resistance prevention in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u121	And then what? Then I've screened. You have MRSA and then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u122	Then there's treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u123	That is not possible because it is precisely the characteristic of MRSA that it does not respond to a treatment. So I can screen anyone, I can screen you too, maybe you have MRSA without you knowing, but that doesn't do us any good. When is it really relevant? In hospitals where vulnerable people reside. Then MRSA can have a big impact. This also applies to livestock farming where you see that contamination is much more common. We have separate protocols for that. The hospitals have a very good policy for this. I am very proud of it and I think that we are also doing very well to ensure that we keep that contamination in the Netherlands low too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u124	The point is, this MRSA bacteria is contagious. Asylum seekers are in such an azc and of course they all use the same sanitary facilities. There is therefore a risk that other people will be infected and that the problem will only get worse and hospitals will be chased at huge costs. There is a danger that we will no longer be able to deal with the problem. The Minister makes a very big international point of this antibiotic-resistant product and goes around the world for it, but in the Netherlands we are at great risk. So the minister can do something about it in those azc's, right? If you know someone's infected, can't you do a little more than just let it go with the risk of other people getting infected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u125	But what are we gonna do? Are we going to say that people are no longer allowed to go to Turkey, Greece or countries in southern Europe, where MRSA is very common? We have open borders. Everyone goes on vacation and goes back and forth between countries. We're all infecting each other. That's just eating the whole egg. There is no easy solution to this. It's far too easy to think it solves itself by checking everyone at the border. We don't check everyone who gets off the plane after a holiday home in Turkey. We must work together internationally to combat antibiotic resistance. We have to do this in different areas. You can do that by making sure you don't get an infection, because if you don't get an infection, you don't need to be treated. We have drawn up a programme on the prudent use of antibiotics. Let us not underestimate livestock farming in this context either. So we're really doing everything we can, but the solution isn't in border control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u126	I would like to return to the Minister's reply on innovation and e-health. The VVD has asked whether an inventory of barriers can be made. In the answer I read that not only should an inventory be made, but that practical examples and bottlenecks in practice should be considered. I very much agree with the Minister. The specific question remains, however, whether this inventory is actually being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u127	Actually, we do that inventory all the time. I also sent a letter to the Chamber about it. By following a case, where you sit around the table several times with all those involved, you notice that it is based, for example, on ICT, in the sense that systems cannot be linked. In a hospital, for example, you can think of something good in your ICT environment that is feasible in a gynecology department but not in another department. That is how I indicated in the letter what obstacles we are facing. We're going to work on it to see how we can solve it, and I immediately note that some are easier to solve than others. We also continue to scan those barriers. We have also indicated: if there are obstacles, please report them. In addition, we are active in it ourselves. One of the obstacles was that one could not find one another. For example, I am talking about something that creative people develop, but in the end there is a lack of user convenience for patients or doctors, or something that does not fit in with our funding system or something that has a lot of potential but for which there are no investors. We put that together in a network so that we can come to solutions much faster and more practical. In fact, I have already mentioned the broad lines of these obstacles in the same letter, and that is three, out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u128	That's clear. We've seen it, too. It remains important, therefore, that the practical obstacles are always monitored in order to find solutions in this way. I would also like to make a very important appeal: should barriers be experienced from the field, report them very clearly so that they can be caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u129	Yeah, especially if in the short term that's something that you can say has a lot of potential and is so beautiful but gets in the way of something that you have to adjust and takes a long time. We have said that we can then start an experiment with a rule-free environment in which we eliminate certain things. If it really is something that would be very nice, we have the space to start fifteen of those experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u130	I had another question to the Minister about TISA, the trade agreement in the pipeline between the European Commission and 22 other countries, about services and how trade can take place. Now the Minister has replied that there is no problem; I will just summarize it in my words. Why does the Cabinet not use an opt-out scheme to exclude all healthcare services from the TISA Trade Agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u131	I wrote to the Chamber about what the cabinet is committed to. What we are putting into these consultations is that our health system is nationalized and therefore not covered by that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u132	I doubt that if you don't put that in an opt-out. Quite specifically, suppose that the ambulance service is carried out in a region private, for example by a Danish company. Now, as a country, we decide to make it a public service that we are going to carry out ourselves. Then we are, as it were, putting that Danish entrepreneur out of business again, because we think it is desirable that we should do so ourselves nationally. Can we do so if we agree with the proposals that are now before us and with the provisions proposed by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u133	We are dealing with this ourselves as a country. Where there are doubts as to whether there is doubt because many systems are public and our private ones, we have indicated that our system should therefore be explicitly included. It is therefore preferable to be explicitly named rather than implicitly conceived and ultimately to fall next to it. We therefore agree in substance that our rules and what we do with each other are a national competence and that Europe cannot negotiate on national competences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u134	As the Minister almost went over to the amendments just now, I have one more point, namely my question on how to implement the advice of the Dutch Health Institute on cost-effectiveness. The Minister writes in the written answer: In this, the Health Institute does not indicate that there should be a limit to what should cost certain care and I do not feel at home there either. I understand that, but a publication by the Zorginstituut itself mentions reference values. There is a certain amount of money attached to that. I would like to know from the Minister whether she feels at home with that definition, namely the reference values. Depending on the severity of the condition, says the Healthcare Institute, reference values should range from €10,000 to €80,000 per high quality life year won. In fact, the Healthcare Institute indicates that it is working on this. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u135	I recently sent a comprehensive policy response to that report last week or a week and a half ago. Cost-effectiveness is too easy for me when you say: for example, we leave that to depend only on the disease. For when someone is young, 36, has three children and has all kinds of future dreams and plans, that is a different situation than someone who is 90, is actually done with things and is completely different in life. Those are very different situations. In my response I also indicated that I think it is crucial that we do not narrow it down to: a year of life is worth €80,000. Do we find €82,000 too much? So we're not gonna do it? It is true that we do, in pharmacy, that every day we look at cost-effectiveness in relation to therapeutic added value. How much do you have to pay more than the standard treatment and what do you get in return? Do you get back that for a lot of money you're lying in your bed sick for three weeks? Or do you get back that you can live a year and a half longer with a decent quality of life? These are considerations that are constantly being made about medicines. So I'm not saying that you shouldn't put any weight on it, because care is also dividing scarcity, but I think it's far too simple to find a life year worth €80,000 or between €10,000 and €80,000. I don't feel at home at all. I don't want to go down that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u136	I understand. I too think it is a very difficult discussion, but that reference value is not a fixed limit either. It depends on the condition why it's going on, on the age, on all the other factors. I understand from the Minister that she does not want to link any sums to them at all, because that is difficult, and I agree with that, but it would be good to have the debate with each other. How can we shape it a little more? This is also requested from the world of medical specialists. Doctors don't want to have to break up with their patients in the conference room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u137	In part, they will always have to do so, because the doctor is ultimately the gateway to a treatment. It is an inevitable responsibility of doctors, but also of politics. In a policy response, I said that the reference value for me is a much more positive, nuanced approach than the discussions we had in this country for a very long time about €80,000 as a summit, and that is what it is. I think the approach to the reference value is much more nuanced and better. There is personal customization to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u138	I have a question about the care purchase of health insurance companies. The minister's supervisor says that it is mainly based on price and too little on quality. There is therefore a need for improvement. However, the Minister's answer is rather procedural. That's part of the problem. The NS, excuse me, the NZa has been ordered by us to do a trial test. She does, but you actually need to have a test on content. Is there any purchase on content? The Minister says that all kinds of procedures will be made public, but I do not yet see how the insured person, the patient, the health care provider, is included in the procurement policy. A prerequisite for quality is that they are listened to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u139	We have this procedure for the first time. He used to be in the law that didn't pass... which also contained Article 13. Together we have decided to continue this part, but through the NZa, which has made policy rules. There are many aspects to that. Once this has been done, the NZa will look at the purchasing conditions. These are, of course, substantive conditions. You will then say: you must have done 100 times a treatment or you must comply with the guidelines of those and those. At the end of the year, the NZa will present a report on how the purchasing criteria are put together and on whether people have complied with them. Can we see afterwards that they actually bought in on that? The NZa can then say: I would really like it to be a bit different, because I think that too little attention has been paid to this here or there. This allows you to set up a cycle to achieve improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u140	The procedure has indeed improved, but it is still not about quality. As a result, the NZa is still unable to intervene. If you only look at procedures, protocols and guidelines, the insured person's voice is still not included. What new purchasing value or new procedure shows that this is really happening? I ask that, because if the NZa suddenly takes a look at content, we are already a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u141	Firstly, there is the legislative proposal on the participation of insured persons in the insurance sector, including the procurement policy, which will be in consultation next Friday or Monday. It's in that bill, and so it's legally anchored. Secondly, we can see where insurers actually buy in. Is that only procedural, or are there substantive criteria underneath that? We have established these criteria in the Chamber together, including by means of amendments and motions for resolutions. Are they sufficient or should they be corrected? Because the NZa checks how it went, we can determine if more or other things are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u142	I was just chewing on that own risk that has risen so much over the past few years. I saw that the Minister also finds it annoying that, for whatever reason, it has risen so strongly. That's gonna get people in trouble. Can the Minister agree with me on a way, either legally or with an incentive, of driving insurers to make people pay in instalments? At least that would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u143	You can do that anywhere and with all insurance companies. The information campaign is really necessary, because people need to know that it is possible. It can be done by all insurance companies. We will therefore include it in the information campaign and point out to people that they can pay evenly if they get into trouble and that they can ask their insurer for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u144	I am very pleased with that commitment, because it turns out that a lot of people don't get it. Those people are obviously not getting it from the insurance companies either. If we do something about that together, we'll help a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u145	I'll take it with me in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you. You can now proceed with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u147	I have the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Voordewind and Mrs Dik-Faber for me, an amendment on suicide prevention. We have entered into the conversation with 113Online. I have reported to the Chamber on this in the written answer to the questions on the budget. I think that we have really gone very far and that we are now growing this small organisation very quickly. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. We have done the maximum and you have to be careful that it all goes well if you double an organization in a short time a few times in size. I would therefore really advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u148	A letter has indeed been sent to the Chamber. However, I have also understood that the discussion with 113Online about the letter has yet to take place. I shall keep the amendment in the air until the results of that discussion are known. I am very curious about that and we will withdraw that amendment, should the outcome of that discussion be such that 113Online can get out of the way with the extra resources. We want to make sure of that and until then Joël Voordewind and I will keep the amendment up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u149	It is important for the Chamber to know that, in response to the questions on the budget, I indicated what budget we would like to use. I believe that we are making the organisation grow as hard as it is justified. We do that because we find it incredibly important what 113Online does. I must say that this organisation is doing very well and that I am very satisfied with her commitment. I would very much like to expand this organization, but there are limits to that. I will give that to the Chamber because it is clear why I would also advise against the amendment if it were tabled later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u150	It has been tabled, but we shall not vote on it until early December. So perhaps you can send a letter to the Chamber before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u151	I thought it was voted on Tuesday, but then it's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u152	No, we are voting on the motions on Tuesday, but on the amendments and the legislative proposal only in the first week of December.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u153	Okay. I now come to the amendment to item No. 16 by Mr Van Gerven on plastic surgery. I've sent a letter to the Chamber about the trajectory I've deployed. I really want to do that carefully, as we do with everything in the package. In that letter I indicated that we are going to look through the standard route at transgender surgery, the circumcision in medical indication and two other actions that have been presented to us by the professional groups. This is now located at Zorginstituut Nederland. Such decisions are always taken before the summer and I get a timely response from the healthcare institute so that I can take the decision in good time on the basis of the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u154	I welcome the fact that the Minister has started this process and I believe that we will have a proposal in April so that we can involve it in the package debate. I understand, moreover, that there is a discussion about how my amendment is covered, so I am going to change the coverage. There will be an amended amendment. My point is of course the year 2016. My assessment is that the opinion will be positive in a number of areas. As a result, we have a rather nasty situation in 2016. Quite specifically: for example, a certain treatment to treat a pre-cancer is worth €1,000. That's on people's own account now. I'm sorry to hear that. Isn't there a sleeve that can't be adjusted? Can anything be done in 2016? I understand the system the minister is maintaining. The package was due to start in 2017. Since it is a restricted group, but it can also be very large amounts, I would ask the Minister to take a positive look at this amendment. Perhaps it could make a suggestion on how we can deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u155	I remain "dissuade" from my judgment and can also explain why. At the time of the sickness fund this was removed from the package because the medical indication was not leading to the declaration on general costs. That is exactly why this has not proved to be sustainable. I thought that was a really bad decision myself, because you can see that medically necessary treatments sometimes put people at a high cost. Sometimes that doesn't get people involved. Sometimes I found that very poignant. That is precisely why I am now sticking my neck out with the insurers and the professional group and see if we can do better. In doing so, it is crucial that we regulate the proper use of care. I believe that we should look seriously at the parts that I described in the letter to the Chamber. For that we have a whole process, very carefully. This applies to all kinds of treatments in healthcare. I want to take this into account in the next package decision, but I do want Zorginstituut Nederland to take a good look at it first with his expertise. That is how we do it in all package extensions. It is precisely because of the history of this that I would like to see this done in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u156	We agree on that. Let the healthcare institute assess this carefully and let us take a political decision on it before the summer recess next year. If this decision is positive in a number of parts, it would be good, given the history, if people could benefit directly from it. I do not want to obstruct or cycle through the route outlined by the Minister, but what if we come to that decision in the middle of next year is there not a sleeve to be adapted? Can we not then come to a solution for the second half of the year, which we would then be discussing? I proposed to reserve money myself, but you could also think of a coulance scheme. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the possibility of reaching agreements with health insurers along that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u157	I'll wait for the advice of the Healthcare Institute first. If, on the basis of that opinion, other considerations arise, we can assess that at that time. I'm sticking to my judgment. The amendment in part No. 28 has been amended several times, but the opinion has been expressed as in the written response, namely the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u158	Could the Minister explain...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u159	You have judgment room!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u160	No, that is the amendment tabled by Mr De Lange and Mr Tanamal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u161	It's going all over the place. Can the Minister indicate it more precisely? Then we'll know which amendment it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u162	I'm sorry, I'm dealing with the administration myself, so I can totally understand Mr Van Gerven. I have tabled amendments 28, 29 and 30 as amended. It has been amended three times, but it is one amendment, namely the De Lange/Tanamal amendment on family confidence in mental health care. That's what I'm talking about... Judgement Room. For the amended amendment to item No. 29 About Heartproof Living also applies: Judgment Room. The same applies to Amendment No 2. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u163	Only the amendment in part No. 31 still needs to be judged. Then I'll help you like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u164	Thank you very much. That is the Dik-Faber amendment. I'll respond to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u165	That has just arrived, so the Minister has not yet been able to properly assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u166	I'm asking Mrs Bruins Slot to take a look at healthcare choices in maps. This provides insight into the so-called menu approach. There are two variants. In variant 24 on page 61 you see the same maximum own risk and lump sums based on 25%, 50% and 75% of actual costs. The second variant is the same, but with an increase in the ceiling of one's own risk, because the first variant costs money. The variant of the CDA is the €75 approach, which is just a bit different. Can Mrs. Bruins Slot do enough with this? Or does she still want the CPB to look into it? Then she'll have to let me know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u167	It's about page 61 of healthcare choices in maps, variant 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u168	Right!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u169	Thank you. This has put an end to the Minister's response. In view of the clock, I would like to make the following proposal. The Secretary of State also has quite a few questions to answer. I'm always sorry to suspend in an answer, so I suggest we suspend for half an hour for lunch. Then we have the arrangement of work and the installation of a new colleague. Then, at one hour or one, depending on how long the scheme will last, we will continue to deal with this budget. It is always difficult to suspend around this time, but it is also very difficult to suspend in an answer. I'm sure that will be necessary, because I don't think the Secretary of State will be ready with his answer in two hours' time, and you don't want me to hunt you down either.
