ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. I'll try to read them out in due time. The first concerns media reports that private initiatives in the field of language learning are sometimes discouraged and that basic material for learning the Dutch language is not allowed in emergency care. I have seen this not only in the media, but also from various council members and aldermen. It seems undesirable to me, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the integration of asylum seekers to start learning the Dutch language as soon as possible;]] [[noting that in some locations the COA does not approve the teaching of Dutch by volunteers and the provision of educational material in the Dutch language;]] [[calls on the Government not to oppose, but to encourage, private initiatives to provide asylum seekers with language education and educational material,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2089]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	The asylum debate is largely dominated by figures. The figures for asylum influx are not always presented unequivocally by the Ministry of V & J. I think this is important for the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to conduct the debate on asylum on the basis of objective and transparent figures;]] [[Whereas the current way of communicating asylum figures does not provide sufficient clarity;]] [[calls on the Government, in communication on the asylum influx, to always divide the figures into new asylum applications, repeated applications and post-travel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2090]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	Since there was some confusion about lhbt'ers, I thought it best to underline the position on lhbt asylum seekers from the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas asylum seekers must comply with the Dutch law and the house rules of reception;]] [[Whereas those who threaten and intimidate asylum seekers in asylum centres should be addressed;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures to protect lhbt asylum seekers in the shelter and to address those who intimidate and threaten them;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible to place endangered lhbt asylum seekers in a safe environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2091]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	We also discussed this issue with the Minister during Question Time yesterday. At that time, on behalf of my group, I asked whether everything in this area would also apply to Christians, Jezidis and women travelling alone. There are more groups that are threatened. So I am now asking Mr Sjoerdsma the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think it is generally known that the protection of vulnerable groups in emergency care is inadequate. My group, like the municipality of Amsterdam, has responded to the recent reports on lhbt asylum seekers. It was a completely unacceptable and unacceptable intimidation of a group of people who should be able to be who they want to be in the Netherlands. I'm responding to those messages with this motion. If Mrs Keijzer has serious reports about other vulnerable groups, and she is tabling a motion to protect them, I will certainly support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	Last week, there was rightly a lot of fuss about the threat to IBTs. That was unacceptable with regard to the CDA Group. However, the weeks before that were Christians, single women, or minors. Next week it might be another group. Like the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, like the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, believes that this is unacceptable. However, it applies to so many more groups. That's where I care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	I think Mrs Keijzer and I are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the continued use of the crisis response that can be requested through the security regions of municipalities for a period of 72 hours;]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of asylum seekers, cost control and support in society to end the use of this form of reception as soon as possible in favour of small-scale, regular emergency care and reception in azc's;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the COA, to draw up a timetable for the phasing out of the use of the emergency relief system as soon as possible and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Eritrean interpreters were dismissed due to the appearance of involvement in the regime in Eritrea;]] [[noting that these interpreters were previously subject to an integrity investigation by the IND, but that the investigation did not reveal this appearance of involvement at the time;]] [[Whereas the screening of interpreters working at IND should be based on the nature of their profession;]] [[Calls on the Government to improve the screening of interpreters working at the IND and to inform the Chamber of the improvements made;]] [[calls on the Government to realise that asylum seekers who have been involved in their proceedings with interpreters who have been dismissed because of the appearance of links with foreign regimes can go through this part of their proceedings again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in the administrative agreement with municipalities and provinces concluded on 27 November 2015, the government agreed that plans should be ready for 2,500 additional reception places per province as of 1 February 2016.]] [[noting that the UNG has also indicated the importance of spreading asylum seekers among municipalities as far as possible in order to support them;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, when the agreed 2,500 additional shelters per province are realized, several small-scale locations are taken together in a total of 2,500 locations per province,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still unaccompanied minor asylum seekers who are housed in large campuses;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable for their sense of security and development;]] [[noting that Nidos manages to house single minor status holders on a small scale and preferably in a family basis;]] [[calls on the government to instruct the COA to house single minor asylum seekers only in small-scale care, preferably family,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2092]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2093]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2094]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2095]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. Last week it was announced that half of the number of asylum seekers rejected will not leave. The CDA Group wonders where they are. Is there any record of an illegal person in contact with justice or the government as a refused asylum seeker? Are the different data files linked together? In the letter following the attacks in Paris, the cabinet wrote that the police in the process of identification and registration (I&R) in all cases search the foreigners, examine their luggage and collect and investigate their biometric data. The question is, however, what is the real status of screening? Last week a Syrian refugee was arrested in Zaandam who is suspected of being a warrior of Al-Qaeda or IS. This is a matter of great concern. Apparently, he got through the screening. How is that possible? Has the Secretary of State implemented improvements in the control of baggage and the identification of identity? If so, are they sufficient? The inspection itself questions it, since it concludes in a report that this adjustment does not eliminate all risks with regard to the quality of identity determination, just because the checks in this procedure take place long after entry and notification. As a result, it cannot be excluded that relevant data has been lost due to time lag. In short, the inspection also states that there are still weaknesses in the screening of asylum seekers. Will the Secretary of State now implement new, more stringent measures, such as checks immediately after arrival in the Netherlands? There would be an interdepartmental working group on refugees: the IWBV. How's that going? The consequences of the flow of refugees are in many different areas. That's why there's more than one ruler involved. There is still a great deal of uncertainty in the areas of education, care, housing, benefits and procedures. I am very curious to see whether this interdepartmental working group will come up with a number of conclusions in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. I have three points to make in connection with the general consultation. The motions are about signals I have received about salafists who are recruiting at the azc's and about how to deal with nuisances, which I sometimes call "asielasos." In addition, I have a question for the Secretary of State. I'll file the motions first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Salafist volunteers come to asylum-seekers' centres under the guise of offering mental care;]] [[Whereas there are signs that the real reason they are coming to asylum-seekers' centres is that they are seeking, in particular, to recruit unaccompanied young asylum-seekers;]] [[believes that it is necessary to prevent Salafists from recruiting asylum seekers in and around asylum-seekers centres;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Salafists are banned from asylum-seekers' centres in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas asylum seekers coming to our country have to respect the fact that we have a free society in which it does not matter whether you are male or female, gay or straight, religious or unbelieving;]] [[whereas there are asylum seekers who ask us to be hospitable, but then abuse that hospitality by believing that their faith is superior to that of others and by overflowing with intolerance;]] [[Whereas the Government has already announced a policy change whereby the asylum authorisation of criminal asylum seekers can be refused or withdrawn earlier;]] [[Whereas asylum seekers harassing others or threaten, will not always receive a punishment of sufficient size;]] [[believes that we must protect our society from this;]] [[calls on the Government to establish and sanction a separate regime for those asylum seekers who cannot be expelled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azmani and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2096]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azmani. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2097]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	In my opinion, this whole Chamber is firmly in favour of dealing with people who do not, of course, want asylum seekers in the Netherlands. With this motion, however, Mr Azmani proposes a new regime. For my group, it is important to know what this new regime should mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	It seems to me that those who harass and threaten others not only lht'ers but also other minorities who face threats, such as Christians, people of Jewish origin or people who are not believers, are in any case separated from regular care. I imagine that you can think of, for example, a location with some restrictions on freedom. I come to my question to the Secretary of State. Mrs Keijzer has already mentioned the report on the inspection. This was a period in which there was a huge influx of asylum seekers. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is doing his best to eliminate the backlogs as much as possible, whereby people who enter will be registered and screened quite quickly. I think it's important that this just happens from day one. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the state of affairs is and whether he has made up for the delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions and a motion. I have received a number of reports which show that communication on the care that asylum seekers and refugees need, particularly in emergency care, raises a number of concerns, in particular regarding the availability of interpreters and their duration. I would like to give that signal to the Secretary of State. I ask him whether he wants to find out whether this is indeed the case, also in relation to transfers advised by doctors, but which are very difficult and are not being followed, whereas I think that we should take the advice of doctors very seriously. I ask the Secretary of State to pick up this signal and find out. Another concern remains the coordination and cooperation with the COA and other organisations. Mayors sometimes complain, rightly or wrongly, but it is also difficult for other bodies and voluntary organisations. I understand that this is an extraordinary situation with exceptional circumstances, but exceptional circumstances also call for extremely good cooperation and relief. I ask the Secretary of State to pay attention to this. Now that the new track policy needs to be put in place, this also causes unrest. Some people ask if they are the first to enter the country first. This applies not only to the people we want them to leave the country quickly, but also to the Syrians themselves. One no longer has the idea that the principle of first in, first out still applies. I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State. Finally, I will table the next motion, also in response to the report in de Volkskrant last Saturday. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the stagnant handling of asylum procedures is partly due to logistical problems at the IND;]] [[Whereas this results in temporary workers, interpreters and asylum lawyers being sent home while tens of thousands of people are waiting for an intake interview;]] [[considers that practical solutions can be found to the logistical problems;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a plan of action to remove these logistical thresholds so that screening, intake and procedure can take place as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2098]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u14	This brings to an end the term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. He's requesting a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u15	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his response to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with the motions first. Then I'll go into the few separate questions. In the motion in part No. 2089 Mr Sjoerdsma addressed private initiatives in the field of language teaching. I see this motion as a policy support. It's the line to allow that. In practice, a problem may arise as a result of compliance with requirements before people are admitted. For example, there is a screening. We do not just allow everyone to enter an asylum-seekers' centre. However, this does not happen because we do not want individuals to volunteer for day-to-day activities or language learning. So it's a clear signal in that sense. I shall therefore leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you for that. The Secretary of State says it's policy. For the sake of clarity, this is not about asylum-seekers' centres, but about emergency care. I heard the Secretary of State say "asylum search centers." Not only people are being prevented, but also teaching material. I hope that the Secretary of State within the organisation makes it very clear that it is a right to have these books.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'll check it out. I will also look into why this has been refused. Maybe there was an old spelling or something else weird in there. Let's take a look at what was in between. I see no reason why that should be refused.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u19	Will you also let the Chamber know the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yeah, sure. Then I will deal with the Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 2090. I understand there was some confusion about the numbers. However, I also understood that the confusion was not so much about the communication by the Ministry as about the figures given by the CBS once in a while. The CBS bases itself on a different phenomenon than the registration. In reports, I always divide the figures into new asylum applications, repeated applications and after-travel. I find it a little difficult to make a breakdown into three groups each time I mention a figure showing the additional reception needed for the weekly intake. I also think that this is detrimental to the message. What we do is what we have always done: at the same time we give the exact figures, broken down and defined. We now mention the situation in the country more often because there is a need to get an impression of the inflow over a period shorter than that between two normal reports. That's what I wanted to keep up. Given the absoluteity of the motion, I'd advise against her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u21	But that is precisely where the problem lies. The Secretary of State says that the figures in the normal reports are neatly broken down, but that he thinks that this is a bit too absolute for the weekly reports. I can see that the ministry and the media are distilling trends from the figures communicated weekly that you can't get out of. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to reconsider the fact that, when communicating on this subject, figures on asylum influx are always distributed neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u22	A traveler also sleeps in a bed. I don't understand the problem with the trends. I'll make it harder if I call it bald first without the after-travel. After all, I am referring to a number which is unrealistic given the fact that capacity generation is required. On the other hand, we also communicate about the outflow. After all, it's not net. People sometimes leave the asylum centre. I think it's good to be very precise for the gourmets in the reports. I don't usually qualify the trend or a decrease in the influx, because every week, new people just come in the week before. The people of the week before aren't leaving. The trend is therefore always that there is an increase; the increase may only be less strong or stronger than in the previous week. I can go a long way with the third motion, that of Mr Sjoerdsma in part No. 2091, but unfortunately not with what is in the end. In my opinion, everyone in the Chamber prefers that people can be safe in normal care. There are several reasons why one might get into his retarded head to discriminate against another, for example for lhbt reasons or because someone else's faith doesn't like him. What matters is that someone is in an asylum-seekers' centre or in emergency care in the Netherlands, where one should be safe and where discrimination does not belong. Those who make life difficult for others should experience the sanctions and consequences thereof. This motion calls for a separate shelter for lhbt's. I am not in favour of that, because I would have to make a separate shelter every time someone thinks that someone else should be treated badly. What can be done, of course, are private initiatives that, for example, make use of the self-care scheme and do things that make people feel comfortable. I'm not gonna block it, because I'd discriminate. I don't want a separate, segregated shelter for vulnerable groups. I want a shelter that's safe for everyone, for whatever reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u23	I think everyone in this Chamber will agree with that last one. The point is that some lhbt asylum seekers have experienced something and therefore feel so vulnerable that they no longer feel protected in that environment. The second operative part is as follows: if people no longer feel protected, they can actually have a different place of shelter than the one they have been in until then. I think that is also the point of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u24	If they are private initiatives, people who have different ideas about this from the cabinet or who do not think that it is going to be fast enough, then I will not stand in the way of that. This is possible because of a self-care arrangement or on other grounds. The government cannot organise some kind of growth azc or something for the vulnerable. I just want it to be clear to everyone that we are not discriminated against here in the Netherlands, even for those who are struggling to accept it and have to adapt. If people can't stand the fact that men are attracted to other men or that someone has a belief that they don't like, I don't want to honor it by putting those vulnerable groups apart. I'm just not gonna do that. I just want the asylum seekers' centres to be safe. Everything is also focused on this; this is how the wheeldrivers are dealt with. I shall return to another motion, but if that is to be a bit firmer, I would also like to see whether that can be done and to inform the House of that. I just don't want to cross this Rubicon by saying that I'm going to make a separate shelter for people who are victims of it. I think that we would reward those people who do not understand this time and who still need a little bit of modern thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u25	So you're dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yeah, it's being dissuaded. Now the motion in part No. 2092 by Mrs Voortman. I believe that the governance agreement with the UNG contains the agreement to reduce the crisis response. It also contains the common objective of not allowing or requiring new products to be made available for such a long time as from 1 January. For this to happen, there must be an extension of ordinary emergency shelters or azc's. So I think everyone has the same goal in mind. The phasing out of crisis relief is a result of the better alternatives we have in the emergency care or azc's. All efforts are also focused on this. But here again plays the absoluteity of such a timetable and hard date. However, I must be able to have some flexibility if it is not possible to manage the emergency shelter once, or if the weather is not exactly right or is no longer necessary, or if, for example, there is something wrong with the fire protection system when the emergency shelter is opened. I don't want this. Of course, we didn't want to do this, but we also want to cut it down. I am therefore pleased that the municipalities commit themselves to this and feel the responsibility to run even faster for emergency care and azc's. But if we put it so absolutely and the alternative is that I don't have a shelter, I think it's less preferable. Because of her absoluteity, I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u27	On the contrary, the municipalities are running very fast for the realisation of emergency care, so that is not where the problem lies. It's something else that matters to me. Of course, we all want to get rid of this crisis relief, but I think it's good to set yourself an ambition for when you really want to get rid of it. The Secretary of State says he doesn't want to open a new one from January 1st. At what point do we know for sure that we will stop using these short-term facilities? That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mevrouw Voortman does two things. On the one hand, she wants a hard deadline and a target, which gives the impression that there are people somewhere who do not have to work hard. On the other hand, she rightly says that municipalities work very hard and they do. Therefore, the fact that there is crisis relief does not lie with anyone in particular. I don't blame the municipalities either. I just have to conclude that you better have a crisis relief than not, if we don't have enough ordinary emergency shelters or azc's. They're being phased out now. That is the objective. There won't be any more new ones, and the old ones will be phased out. We have an objective to have sufficient capacity very quickly, in January or February. Then you're out of emergency care. It is not a lack of ambition or deadlines. I just want to be realistic about it. It is such an effort that it is not up to the unwillingness of people if that objective is not achieved yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u29	Unfortunately, it still happens that there are municipalities that say they want to place 100 people for the longer term, but that the COA then says that it only wants to have larger reception conditions. I therefore believe that there is also some reluctance on the part of certain parties. If we then decide not to do this crisis response again, then that alternative will lapse, and so it is more important to look at small-scale permanent facilities. That should be the preferred option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u30	Now I understand what's behind it. It would have been nicer if it had just been in there. I still find it too easy to say that it is the COA, every time it does not come to an azc establishment. I'm throwing that far away. I have already mentioned it: if you have concrete examples, give them to me. Then I'll get right on it. However, it also happens that we have an offer to rent something for 800 people, that eventually 200 can enter and that in the end that bill has to be paid for 800 people. If I did that a few times, I think the whole Chamber would fall over me. That would also be right. Once again, the COA does not even regulate the emergency response. So it can never be that the COA rejects something with the argument that there is still crisis relief. If there's something that everyone wants to get rid of, it's crisis relief. It is being worked hard and I am confident that it will succeed. The Voortman motion in part No. 2093 concerns the question of interpretation. I repeat that there was new information, which made the first judgment different from the later judgment. We're dealing here with stopping an appearance of involvement. So I cannot say that the people whose services we no longer use were actually involved. We'll put the bar down. You can't seem to be involved. Then you cannot draw the conclusion that there was apparently the appearance of it and therefore all procedures are not right. I would like to say this again, also for the people in question, who I want to deal with carefully. We have no signal that people have been disadvantaged by their work. There is also no dissatisfaction with their work. However, given the vulnerability of the situation, even if there is even the appearance of some degree of involvement in a regime and even if that is indirect involvement, we do not want to use their services anymore. That is also annoying for these people, because it has not been said that it was more than apparent involvement. However, this is the care we take. So I have no reason to do the screening differently or to repeat procedures. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u31	It is indeed sad for the interpreters themselves. However, that appearance of involvement was already in the interpretation code for a long time, so no one can surprise that. That information was already available for a long time, so it is not true that there was new information. That information was already available at the IND. I therefore believe that the screening of interpreters working for the IND should be improved in order to prevent this from happening. An asylum seeker must be sure that an interpreter can be trusted 100% and that every appearance of involvement is simply not there. Those are the IND's own rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u32	Then I'll say it very precisely. There have been two investigations and between these two moments new facts came to light that were not known in advance, so we crossed the threshold that there was some degree of appearance. Otherwise, I wouldn't have had to do a second investigation. So there was definitely new information. I do not follow Mrs Voortman's reasoning. That screening has been designed in such a way that even if new information is forthcoming after the judgment, we will do the screening again. That could lead us to stop summoning people. In other words, screening results. Through this screening, by being alert to facts and possibly new facts from the media and instead of persevering in the previous judgment, we have taken this step. I would just conclude that it has done its job and therefore not that it does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u33	Now for a minute. That new information was on Facebook messages that were pre-investigated. That could have been known a long time ago. So that screening could have been much better. So it needs to be improved. I am very sorry that in this way refugees cannot be 100% sure that they are safe in such a procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u34	I am very sorry that Mrs Voortman draws that harsh conclusion that is not supported by the facts, namely that people would not be safe in the procedure. We don't have any equipment that deconstructs the entire internet and can match any photo on the face and then add a conclusion to it. So the fact that something was ever on Facebook doesn't mean that you can see that as such. For example, if someone sees a photograph of a person under certain circumstances and asks whether it is the same person, you can investigate it. That's what we did back then. This provided new information to which we have reviewed the judgment. Then I come to the motion on part No. 2094 by Mrs Voortman on the 2,500 shelters per province and small or large-scale locations. I have to discourage the motion because I don't want to rule anything out. I don't think we get many locations for 2,500 people. I think the talks with the provinces will show that almost every province will choose 2,500 people across multiple locations. I also haven't received a concrete offer for a new location for 2,500 people. I have no preference for that myself. If this motion is passed and a province says to me "I have an offer for you, I have a location with 2,500 places," I should refuse that offer. I'm not comfortable with that. I do not think Mrs Voortman needs to be afraid of many large-scale locations in material terms. Because the motion would imprison me in the search for shelters, I'd advise her not to. The Voortman motion in part No. 2095 is in line with the childcare model for amvs (single minor foreigners) that we will implement from 1 January 2016. The aim from 1 January is that small-scale reception of amvs will become the standard model. Given the current influx, there is still a challenge to complete that complete transition in 2016. I can't guarantee that, but this is the new starting point. In that sense, the motion supports policy and I can leave it to the House's discretion. I always have to, but that's how we put it. The Azmani/Kuiks motion in part No. I also leave 2096 to the judgment of the Chamber. I agree that there should be no recruitment for salafism at a COA location. I do not think this should happen anywhere at all, but certainly not in places where the government is responsible for others. We have a reporting structure for that. This signal helps us to make it clear to the people who are discussing the fact that we are banning them that the Chamber has been explicitly involved in this. Of course, I don't have some sort of pH test for salafism, but we all know what to look for and we will. This motion will certainly contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u35	There is indeed no pH test for salafism. The Secretary of State is very precise about the feasibility of motions. That is why I am very curious to know exactly how he intends to implement this motion. What are we gonna recognize these salafists for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u36	I understand what Mr Sjoerdsma is doing, because I am quite precise. But now he's making it even more precise. If I made his new standard mine, I'd never be able to make a motion positive again. We've been getting signals from society from people who say there's someone hanging around all the time. There are also many vans around with people who make offers for activities with asylum seekers. We'll go through the halls of those who do this. For that we have the vog-screening and other methods. You can also encounter signals from society or public sector information that show that a particular person is involved in salafism. Then we refuse one of those nights. I think that's a good reason not to let a cooking night go on. We have also seen very bad reasons this week. Those are the signals you're going at to ward off people like this. People from certain ecclesiastical institutions about which we have information that their flow is mixed with salafism, we can therefore prevent and deny access.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u37	Does the Secretary of State therefore abandon government policy on this matter? According to this policy, there are three movements within the Salafist group, one of which, the political jihadist, causes great concern in the cabinet. I'm asking this because the Secretary of State is now talking about people who hang out there and who you have reservations about. I get that. I would also like the Secretary of State to act on that. However, this motion concerns a different situation, namely the pre-retirement of anyone who is a Salafist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u38	This fits in with a broader policy. At COA locations, we generally do not allow religious activities that come from outside. This will help overcome this situation. I'm not going to make an exception for forms of salafism. Furthermore, it becomes a very long definition issue with quite a lot of textexegesen about whether one group is then a variant of salafism or just not a salafism. I think it is a good thing that, in general, we keep the separation of any religious activities and that we should check more closely for the worrying form of salafism in other activities outside the COA for which asylum seekers are invited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr Sjoerdsma, I see that you want to interrupt again. It is not your motion and I have already given you twice the opportunity to ask a question about it. We're working on a VAO. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to proceed with the assessment of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you. I'll leave the motion to part no. Mr Azmani, President of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Azmani for his excellent report. If the motion is adopted, I will at least consider whether we can tighten up the Rules of Procedure on Abstinence Benefits or create a separate regime, which will allow us to temporarily, partially or completely, deny wheeldrivers facilities. I'll inform the Chamber about that then. I come to speak about the motion on item No. 2098 by Mrs. Chicken. I assume that Mrs Kikkie does not necessarily want us to send the Chamber a whole plan of action, but that we simply make a plan, tackle the situation and, above all, let the Chamber know as soon as possible that it has been dealt with. I totally agree with her analysis. Practically speaking, this is how it goes. You've got a bottleneck in the screening first. If you solve it, you're gonna have to deal with another bottleneck. So you have to get rid of those bottlenecks one by one. It is, of course, very sad that, while we have increased capacity and set up a track policy, we then run into practical matters of a logistical nature. I have invoked the expertise of my colleague from the Defence Department for these logistical issues. Her people are very well trained in the logistics field. They support us in this, because we just need to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u41	I have an enlightening question. Then what are the practical solutions to remove those logistical thresholds? I just want to know what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u42	That is to ensure that there are enough people who have to make a procedural step when we have interpreters and IND decision-makers there. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u43	I understand that this is about the logistics at the IND, about the staff working there. In the budget, 60 million have been added to the IND. That's the only budget that's been pushed up. I understand that this motion has something to do with the fact that it aims to increase the number of staff to be employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u44	No, the staff is no longer the bottleneck. We have plenty of decision-makers now. And we also have more than enough asylum seekers who still have to go into procedure. However, these two groups must be in the same place at the same time. There must also be an interpreter and someone who can provide legal aid. So a great company has to be brought together. This is now more difficult to achieve in terms of logistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u45	I see this as a commitment. I think I feel a hand-out here to pass on the situations in which these bottlenecks occur one-on-one. It is indeed a shame to send people home. I want to hold the motion as a stick behind the door. I feel a clear commitment and therefore I think it is absurd to have the motion put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u46	At the request of Mrs Kuik, I propose her motion (19637, No. 2098). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mrs Voortman, do you also have a question on the motion for a resolution? 2098?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u48	I still need information in order to be able to make a judgment on the motion in part No. 2096.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u49	This is a VAO in which many motions have been tabled. It's been so long. I find it difficult for questions to be asked every time about motions that have already been made by the Secretary of State. I'll allow a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u50	As far as the Secretary of State is concerned, is it a matter of Salafist activities or of Salafist persons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u51	In any case, there is no basic right for everyone to gain a COA location at all times. If you want to develop activities there, then that screening is part of that. In any case, we do not allow people to come to a location to engage in religious activities. I'm trying to help Mrs. Voortman with her judgment. I'm just trying to explain what exactly is the material difference she's looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u52	So I understand that religious activities are not allowed anyway. This would therefore involve people who may or may not be active outside the shelter as a Salafist. So that doesn't necessarily have to happen within the shelter, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u53	I don't want to allow both cases. Not only do I not want them to be allowed to stay in a shelter, but I also do not want them to invite or recruit people for activities that we believe are wrong. I still have a few questions to ask. Mrs Keijzer mentioned half of the rejected asylum seekers who we actually know are gone. Last week that was in the news, but that is something we have repeatedly communicated to the Chamber. That doesn't mean the other half's still in the country. "Departed with unknown destination," it's called. When we see people returning to the system, they can of course also be offered to the DT&V to take back their return and departure process. But it doesn't mean that all those people are staying illegally in the Netherlands, although I can't rule that out, because I don't know where they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u54	That's what I was doing. Someone who comes into contact with justice, with the government, is illegal. You know that, because he is not a Dutchman, but we also have a Eurodac system in which all asylum seekers who have ever arrived are listed with their fingerprints. Wouldn't it be interesting to connect these two systems? Then at some point you will know how many of the people who are here illegally have ever received no on a request for refugee status.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u55	I'm checking to see if that's possible and to what extent that's not already happening. I will inform the Chamber in writing. Linking files often raises questions, but this is an interesting thought. In any case, it could also make our estimate of the number of illegal immigrants more accurate. So here's what I'm gonna get back to. Then about the screening, the arrest that was made in Zaandam and the inspection report. The inspection report was about the same period that this person got through, when we were lagging behind in the screening. The intensified screening was also highlighted shortly after the attacks in Paris. For the sake of clarity, it has been tightened up. This person had been screened before. In any form of screening there remains a risk, because you can only judge on the basis of what you find. Of course, it's still a risk that you won't find anything at the time. That's why we stay alert, and we don't let go after the screening. For example, if there are people in a shelter who point out to us that they think it is bingo with other people in that shelter and that there are signs for that that we should be alert to, then so are we. This may also lead to the fact that for someone in care for whomever there was no reason to strike at the enhanced screening, there are reasons for doing so at one time. So that's what we're gonna go through with. The Court can conclude from the seriousness of this arrest that we are taking the signals seriously. Now we need to examine whether these signals really exist. When that investigation is completed, the Court will, of course, hear the same thing. Mr Azmani asked about the same screening of the state of play at the beginning of the asylum procedure. The delays in police identification and registration have indeed been eliminated. The new method with standard search and examination of luggage is now also operational. The delays in the IND's sign-in waves are almost eliminated and we are still catching up at a rapid pace. As a result, at the front of the process, screening is much better in order than it was a few months ago. Mrs Keijzer asked how the cabinet relates to the common problems. She has rightly pointed out that we are far from there. I would remind her that we are actually following the process of entry. So we had to get the intake and screening in order at the IND first. Then, fortunately, we were able to conclude a good administrative agreement with the municipalities on housing, acceleration and reception. In addition, we have also strengthened the track policy and the safe country list. Those are all matters arising from that consultation. The other issues that she mentioned, such as assistance and education, are constantly the subject of attention, including among my fellow ministers. It is a good thing that these things about asylum seekers are not just through me. We have also made agreements with the municipalities in order to make good agreements on these elements in the spring in a kind of follow-up administrative agreement. These talks therefore continue, and we are committed to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u56	This inter-departmental working group meets refugees, IWBV, still? At some point it was announced that there would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u57	We do not use that abbreviation. We have announced that there is a ministerial committee on immigration which is looking into this. He's still meeting. However, we have decided that we are sending concrete policy plans to the Chamber and not every time a comprehensive overview of what we have all discussed. We send you the measures; you have seen a lot of them at a rapid pace over the last few months. But we're not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u58	I have the feeling that not all my questions have been answered quite well. Take the issue first, first out. Then it's about track policy. I know that there are changes to this policy, but this is without prejudice to the fact that other people still have: first come, first served. In practice, it seems that this rule is no longer being followed. Some people have already had a number of conversations, while they had come in later. Others haven't had a conversation at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u59	As a result of the railway policy, we are changing this practice as it should be, and Mrs Kuik is right. Apart from the railway policy, there are also things that are not intended to happen. That has everything to do with the bottleneck we discussed earlier. When it's solved, we're not gonna do it like this anymore. But now we sometimes have the practical problem that people are there without the asylum seeker who should have come by appointment. Then you have a dilemma. If you do nothing, then time is lost, but you can also say, a little bluntly: there are people here who haven't been there yet, so let's spend our time usefully and have a conversation with this person now. That is not the way we all want it, but it is still a matter of making something of a situation that did not work out in terms of logistics. However, I agree with Mrs Kuik that the principle is 'first come, first served', unless there is reason to abandon the principle. I call minors, people you think are wrong with, or people you really expect to be rejected quickly on safe land grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u60	This is now being done in relation to the logistical problems and it is being taken into account in the plan of action. I also asked a question about the alert that a number of things are not going well in communication with regard to care. I'm talking about the interpreters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u61	That's what I'm after.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u62	Following on from the administrative agreement, my request would be as follows. Many municipalities indicate that many people are already getting settled in the long-term emergency shelter, precisely because many volunteers are putting out a hand. My question is: can we ensure that we keep as many people as possible in the municipalities where they were already in emergency care? I understand that this is now a problem of logistics, but I would like to argue in the further discussions with the municipalities to give this element a little more form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u63	I take that signal with me and I combine it with the call that comes from companies, in the vein of: someone can work here, but gets a place from the computer on the other side of the country. That's not very convenient, so I'll take the signals and see how we can deal with them from the COA. The waiting list does not mean that municipalities have to wait for people who can be placed. We could do something about that qualitatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-3.u64	We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday.
