ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The position of homosexual asylum seekers in emergency care is, in some cases, extremely worrying. There are examples of lhbt asylum seekers threatened by their own roommates. They're being bullied, laughed at and yelled at. Their safety is at stake, purely because of their orientation. That's unacceptable. A solution is to provide the homosexual asylum seeker with security by arranging a safe house for him or her. In the event of an acute emergency, that can be defended. Amsterdam is already doing this. Does the Minister share the view that that possibility should be available at that time? The Minister for Emancipation deliberately refers municipalities to this possibility. Does the Minister of Security and Justice agree with that? Another solution, the most important one, is, of course, to deal with the perpetrators. Discrimination, threats and violence are simply forbidden. Does the Minister share the view that he should do everything in his power to ensure the safety of these people, so that he should take complaints seriously, that he should ensure that staff are able to deal with them and that he appoints a trusted person? Is the equal treatment of all people, including those who work with them, brought to the attention of day one in the shelter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for asking these questions, which I am happy to answer here in the absence of the Secretary of State. This is, as Mr Van Dijk probably knows, currently in Greece to look at the situation there. Mr Van Dijk asks five questions and the answer to all these questions is actually yes, but that is not what Mr Van Dijk wants, so I will briefly explain the cabinet position on this. As far as we are concerned, everyone who is a refugee in the Netherlands is subject to Dutch standards and values, including no discrimination according to sexual orientation or sex. In our reception, that is Question No 3 by Mr Van Dijk, house rules apply and the refugees and asylum seekers are actively informed about this. Information is being provided, including on Article 1 of our Constitution. Refugees are actively informed about the possibility to report or report intimidation, threats or other acts that see this problem. Refugees who themselves intimidate, discriminate or exhibit aggressive behaviour are transferred and/or the police are taking action. The COA acts actively in these situations. If an emergency situation occurs in the emergency care facility in which the COA is unable to guarantee the safety of a specific person, a transfer may be necessary. However, the general line is that the victims are not being transferred, but that the perpetrators are being transferred and addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	The latter, of course, is very important. The perpetrators must be dealt with. However, there seems to be some uncertainty about the government's position on this, because on the one hand we hear the Minister for Integration and the Secretary of State for Justice say that separate reception for these groups is undesirable, while on the other hand the Minister for Emancipation deliberately promotes separate reception or at least brings to the attention of the municipalities that separate reception is possible. What exactly is the government's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	There is no light between the two points of view. There is only one position, and that has been confirmed by Mr Bussemaker. She indicated that in her letter she called for attention to be paid to a number of current problems arising around IBTs. One of these problems is the situation in emergency care. She gave the example of Amsterdam, where emergency care is the responsibility of the city of Amsterdam and not of the COA. That's an exceptional situation. It has been chosen to provide separate reception in a specific situation. It is government policy that this can happen, but the main line is that we do not want it, because we believe that the perpetrators should be transferred and dealt with, not the people who are discriminated against. Minister Bussemaker has confirmed that it is also in her view that policy may be different in acute emergencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finally, the question of what is actually happening in the shelter, and the Minister gave a brief answer to this question to remind people of the equal treatment of men, women, homosexuals, lesbians and all people. How is this actively brought to your attention? The insecurity of some people is now great, and we should not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	I already told you exactly what's going on. There are house rules. People are actively informed. There is information on Article 1 of the Constitution and the COA is on top of it to ensure that these situations do not occur and that the perpetrators of these crimes are dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	I am very pleased that this Minister, his fellow Minister, Mr Asscher, has been very critical of the policy of the municipality of Amsterdam and that he, through the cabinet, says that he fully supports the policy of the municipality of Amsterdam to better protect lhbt asylum seekers. I really think that's a win. I'd like to ask the Minister to put a little more on it. Therefore, make sure that in the shelter, where many of these vulnerable people are located, there are also people of trust where they can deal with their concerns!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	On the last point: I do not know if there are any trusted people. I should check that out. You will understand that this is not a daily topic for me. I will look into that and ask the Secretary of State to let the Chamber know. If a municipality, which itself is responsible for emergency care, makes the choice to provide separate shelters for that purpose, I am fine with that. However, I would like to reiterate that the main line for the cabinet is not to transfer the debt for the discrimination they face, but to tackle the perpetrators. The perpetrators must be the ones being transferred to other shelters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	What is happening in Amsterdam, namely placing the lhbt'ers out of the emergency shelter, is really the reverse world. As the Minister also says, the perpetrators should be removed. In fact, if they really threatened people, they'd have to disappear into alien detention. I hope that's the cabinet line. I also draw attention to the position of Christian asylum seekers, who are in the same plight. They are sometimes woken up at 4:00 a.m. because they have to pray with the Muslims. They're afraid to live up to their faith. So I would also like to pay attention to threats against Christian asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	As Mr Voordewind knows, Article 1 of the Constitution also applies to discrimination based on religious beliefs. That's exactly the same thing. I fully agree with Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	I can help the Minister: those trusted people are not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	But my question is about the position of those lhbt asylum seekers. The Minister has already said several times: in principle, we want perpetrators to be expelled and not people who are victims of violence. I very much agree with him that the emphasis should be on this. Now I often hear that lhbt asylum seekers themselves ask to temporarily have the peace in a safe house to feel safe. Do I understand correctly that the cabinet says: in these situations, should that indeed be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	This is, of course, conceivable in an acute emergency, but I would prefer not to. After all, when you separate a victim, you choose to let the victim find out what it means to be a victim. We believe that everyone in the Netherlands should simply comply with the law, including the refugees who are present in the Netherlands. They should simply behave and adhere to our Dutch standards and values.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	What happens in asylum seekers' centres shows exactly what evil culture this cabinet brings to the Netherlands. We see aggression against Christians. We see aggression against homosexuals. We see aggression against women. We see aggression against anyone who is not a Muslim. This is precisely the Islamization of the Netherlands, which must stop immediately. That is why I call on the cabinet to a. no longer allow asylum seekers and b. at least to remove those guilty of aggression and threats from the Netherlands immediately. So you shouldn't transfer them and not give them a residence permit. Turn it off right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have already said that it is very important to take firm action against those who are guilty of this. That's what the COA does. This can also be done by the police if there is a declaration or if there is a notification. That is the starting point of policy. On Mr Fritsma's previous points, several motions from, among other things, his hand were put to the vote in the Chamber. They did not make it, so his position on this point cannot count on a majority in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	Distinction based on religion and orientation is not possible in the Netherlands. I am pleased that the Minister has taken a firm stand on this during this oral question. But he does indicate that unsubs are being transferred to another shelter. In my view, there is only one possible distinction: people who do comply with the rules, the house rules, our laws and rules, and people who do not comply with them. What about the capacity of the police and the prosecutor's office to prosecute people in cases like this? Does it make sense for them to be transferred to another center? Or does the Minister think that they should be more actively tracked down and that appropriate measures should be taken against them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	If Mr Kuzu has listened carefully to what I have just said, he has heard that that is exactly the essence of my speech. Relocation is absolutely an option to eliminate the risk to those who are discriminated against. But, of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police will act if there is reason to do so, because discrimination is not tolerated in the Netherlands. But we also know from the discussions I have had with the Chamber on discrimination in recent months how difficult it is to get the burden of proof. Mr Kuzu knows that too, but the starting point is that people who are guilty of this must pay for it. That's what the D.A.'s office and the police are well-equipped for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	Can the Minister promise that this will be practice? It's very nice that not the one who's threatened, whether he's gay or otherwise, is being deported, but the perpetrators. I think we all agree on that. I have here an example of someone who was constantly threatened by his roommate. He walked around with a knife in his pocket, called him names every time and told him to be gay all the time. But then the one who was threatened was thrown out of the room and had to sleep in the hallway all night. So this isn't where the killer was picked out. Can the Minister promise that even in unique situations where immediate protection is needed, not the victim but the perpetrator will be arrested, expelled and prosecuted? Can the Minister undertake to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	I do not know the individual case to which Mrs Karabulut refers. I don't know if that case will provide evidence for what would be a bigger problem. I know that we are doing everything we can to prevent such situations. That also makes sense, because it is the task of the COA to organise reception in such a way that people can be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	I welcome Mrs Bussemaker's letter. I have one more question. We now have shelter in different places in the Netherlands in municipalities that had less experience with this before. How are there any agreements between the police and the COA when it comes to these kinds of reports? What effect does this have on the procedure of an asylum seeker who is guilty of such discriminatory, offensive or violent practices?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	On that last point, Mrs Kikken already knows that Secretary of State Dijkhoff has announced a change of policy. At the moment, I do not have a clear idea of how that would work for this kind of specific situation. I would suggest that I send a brief note to the Chamber to explain to the Chamber those two aspects raised by Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u23	It is good to note that the Minister is clear and clear that the government is taking the side of the victim rather than the perpetrator. The unsub must be dealt with. I note in this Parliament, on the basis of the interruptions, that we have little to do with the perpetrator. If people just get into this country, they have to accept what we stand for. One thing we stand for is the freedom to be who you are. This includes respect for all lhbt's people in this country. The declaration must be made. If you want to send people back with a one-way ticket, you also have to be willing to file declarations and prosecute people. Is the Minister prepared to look with his colleague, Mr Dijkhoff, at how this process can be further intensified so that declarations can actually be converted into convictions and we can actually give people a one-way ticket from this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u24	I'm always happy to do that. I know those conversations are going on between the COA and the police. The police are on top of it, also because of the tasks it has within the framework of the refugee problem. I'll be happy to have that conversation and see if everything's gonna be all right if we think it's gonna be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u25	It's possible. After Rutte, Asscher, Dijkhoff and Bussemaker today Minister Van der Steur speaks on this subject. I hear him clearly saying that as far as the government is concerned, the aggressor is being ejected. That is good to see, especially for the future, in the integration of refugees, who will soon end up in a neighborhood alongside, for example, two men. If this has been a rebuke by the Minister for Emancipation, can it be that, if this happens again, Christians, Jezidis and single women, to name but a few categories? Is the Minister able to notify the Chamber of the numbers of all declarations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mrs Keijzer, you were only entitled to one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u27	On discrimination, the last point, we sent a letter to the Chamber not too long ago. This was about discrimination wide. A system has been set up with the police to keep records. I can't do this right now, so I can't give you that answer yet. Mrs Keijzer suggests that one way or another there would be a difference of opinion between Mrs Bussemaker and the cabinet, or the predecessors Mrs Keijzer mentioned. I think we're saying the same thing. I have already explained this in reply to Mr Van Dijk's questions. Finally, in response to Mrs Karabulut's question, any COA representative should be able to take on a role as a trusted person. That's part of the professionalism of a COA employee. Every resident can always contact COA employees with questions and for discussing personal issues. Residents are presented that they can contact the COA employees for any signal or incident. The residents are also informed about the possibility to report any criminal offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mrs Keijzer has an exceptional opportunity to put a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u29	A motion has previously been adopted in the Chamber which states that refugees who commit a crime may no longer claim residence here. However, it will be necessary to make a report. Work is under way on a system to register. We have just been asked to streamline the whole process. Do I understand the Minister that he does not know at the moment how many times in recent months we have been having this discussion for some time now, whether there has been a criminal trial or whether discrimination of any kind has been reported in asylum-seekers' centres, emergency care or crisis care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mrs Keijzer understands that very well. I have not so far dealt with this issue. The debates with the Chamber were not conducted by me, but by the Secretary of State. That does not mean that I do not like to see whether that information is available. I don't expect it to be, but if it's any different, I'll take it with me in the letter I promised Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you for your answer and for coming to the Chamber.
