ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the 1980s, I worked for seven years at the Central Bureau of Statistics, six of which as head of the Energy Statistics Department. In this capacity, I provided data to, among other things, the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and took part in various working groups in which the processing of these data was discussed. One of these working groups dealt with statistics on coal production and international trade in coal production. Beautiful books were produced there, but my German colleague and I had discovered some peculiarities. We noticed that so little South African coal was consumed in Europe, whereas there was a lot of production and exports in South Africa. At that time, as you know, it was not politically correct to use South African products. We therefore counted all imports throughout the world and all exports separately, broken down by country and came to the conclusion that South Africa exported millions of tonnes of coal, but that somewhere on the Atlantic Ocean, perhaps in the Bermuda Triangle, disappeared without a trace. They just didn't touch anything. And yet you never heard of coal ships that had perished. On the other hand, importers combined, for example, with more Polish coal, which were to import coal of the same quality than Poland itself gave up to export, even to produce. We presented our results to the "group of experts on coal statistics"... to expensive names no lack there... and the chaos that caused it is somewhat comparable to what an ISIS fighter with a bomb belt causes on a Shiite market square. A lot of countries suddenly sat in the suspect bank. I remember an official from EZ, who was present there, told me that the story was rather confrontational. What I would like to point out is that international statistics can sometimes be influenced by political motives. Today we are discussing the supplementary budget, budget chapter V of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are talking about an additional budget that is needed because of a statistical recalculation of gross national income. Und mit dieser Statistik ist es erst wirklich Kohle machen. With this statistics, you can only make real money in Brussels! Or lose! For let us be, the total amount to be paid to Brussels per year is fixed. The contribution to be paid per country shall be determined in proportion to GNI. If a few countries now give up their GNI too low, they will not only have to pay less, but other countries will have to pay extra. In short, all the reasons why the GNIs of all EU countries should be properly monitored. At the start of the discussion on this matter by the Dutch Central Bureau of Statistics, responsible for the calculation of national income, let me say that, according to my group's firm conviction, this is one of the most honest official organizations in the Netherlands. That is not what we are talking about. Considerably less confidence, particularly in independence, my group has in the organisations responsible for calculating GNI in other EU countries. It is precisely the revision of Member States' gross national income that has led to a recalculation of EU payments. In addition, the European Commission's calculation of the post-payments of GNI payments to the European Union is far less interesting. My group assumes that this is a fairly simple calculation which should be feasible even at committee level. My group is concerned with monitoring the very complicated GNI calculations in other countries, which precede them. We have asked written questions about this in committee. The most important question for us was: what exactly does this procedure look like? The answer was: "In order to ensure the comparability, reliability and completeness of the GNI data of individual Member States, there is a comprehensive procedure for the determination of GNI for the contribution of EU own resources." So that is not an answer; that is just a confirmation that there is a procedure, which we already knew, at least hoped. The literal text goes on: "A procedure has been set up for this under the so-called GNI Regulation. This process includes verification of GNI data. The verification may also show that methods applied to components differ in such a way that Eurostat makes a general reservation on this issue." These sentences again say the same thing, and that is nothing other than: there is a procedure for verification. I repeat our question: we know by now that there is a procedure, but what does it look like? In this context, I would also ask the Minister to respond to an article in De Telegraaf by Paul Jansen on Tuesday 10 March. Under the heading Foolishness gets traits of pattern it appears that De Telegraaf has been trying for months to clarify the course of the post-taxing of EUR 642.7 million. This morning it appears that De Telegraaf even went to the European judge for this. Here again, it appears that the Ministry of Finance does not wish to provide any insight into the background to that post-taxation, invoking alleged harmfulness to relations with Brussels. The same article of 10 March in De Telegraaf then states that the problem lies not at all in Brussels, but that the release of relevant documents is blocked by the Netherlands itself. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, a few comments on the whole procedure so far. It is clear that at the end of last year the Minister of Finance was overwhelmed by the level of the correction to the contribution for Brussels. I assume that the same applies to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for this issue. Something like this can happen, but the whole of events that follow it doesn't make it any better. A letter on this subject from the Permanent Representation on 17 October, in which reference was made to the EU contribution, will not be made available to the Dutch Parliament. The payment will then be settled as a spear in 2014. The written questions asked will not be answered for an essential part. Around the whole hangs a haze of shadowiness. My group finds it staggering that things can go on like this, without having any consequences. For today, however, I am limiting myself to an ultimate attempt to understand the control process in the calculation of GNIs in other Member States. This is not just about GNI from the production statistics compiled in all countries; it is also about estimates of the black money circuit included in GNI. The impression of a control process in which every Dutchman has an interest that it is open, honest and transparent, the fraction of the PVV, and with us a large part of the Netherlands, has absolutely not yet. I'd like to wait for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Amendment of budgetary statements by one of the ministries does not, in general, give rise to a plenary debate in this Chamber. I will not therefore go into changes in staff costs, the removal of asbestos from the Peace Palace or the sale of embassy buildings in Hungary and South Africa. There may be disagreements as to the usefulness and extent of different partial expenditures, but the total budget is not the subject of any dispute. The fact that we are talking about this budget change is because something special is going on. One part of it has aroused a great deal of surprise, indignation and publicity. Packed up for public opinion incomprehensible budget language is a change in the budgetary statements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the year 2014, policy article 3, section 3.1. At the end of 2014, the Netherlands was shocked by the news that membership of the European Union was going to cost us much more money in that year than we had anticipated. This was all the more painful because our public opinion is all too aware that the position of the Netherlands has changed considerably over the years. We changed from an initial net recipient to the relative largest net contributor to the European Union. Not only the media reacted surprised by the post-payment, but also the government. Although a recalculation was expected, with even the possibility that it might cost us some extras, a post-payment of more than EUR 1 billion was completely outside of any imagination. For a moment, it seemed as if the Netherlands would stand united against an EU dictatate considered unreasonable. This way of doing things shows that the EU's influence on our domestic trade-offs has, in fact, become much greater than we were previously aware of. The SP considers it a bad thing that our country can be surprised by the need for substantial additional expenditure on our EU membership on the basis of pre-arranged agreements. This is in addition to other EU involvement in the budgetary freedom of the member states. The ability to decide on the budget, without interference from others, is a characteristic of a sovereign state. Those who do not have that freedom fall to the level of a state or a province. When it comes to EU finances, public opinion in North-West Europe, including in the Netherlands, is opposed to that in the south and east. In the south and east, a high level of spending for the EU is very popular with the left and right. The large items of regional funds and the common agricultural policy provide large flows of money. A lot of money is being pumped around, unfortunately also unnecessarily between the richest Member States, but this will also make additional money available to the poorer Member States. In these countries, critical aspects of EU policies are always associated with high appreciation of current transfers from richer to poorer Member States. Election programmes for the European Parliament above all demand more money for the European Union. This is completely different in our environment, and especially in countries that are net contributors. In North-West Europe, public opinion thinks that payments are enough or more than enough. Sometimes that happens even with a sense of superiority. Many think that we are doing more here than Portuguese, Spanish, Italian, Bulgarian or Greek, and that they do not earn the rights to 'our' money. From ten years' experience in the European Parliament, I know how the international political groups have to deal with very different public opinions at home. While they agree on other issues in general, in the financial field, the dividing lines run right through those groups. That is precisely where they are divided internally and sometimes have to unite extremes. The SP is not an opponent of current transfers from rich to poor. It can be a necessary form of solidarity and beneficial to the stability that also benefits ourselves. We are not only aware of domestic public opinion, but also of the cross-border effects. One of the major problems within the European Union is that states with very uneven levels of development and income are forced to pretend to be in a more or less equal position, with one currency, one external exchange rate and close interest rates. Our economy and finances seem to be controlled by a thermostat, which tries to regulate both polar freezing and subtropical heat with one common position. That is not going well and emphasizes the differences. Meanwhile, the richest Member States with a manufacturing industry and technological innovation are in favour. The poor Member States are increasingly importing machines and vehicles they used to make. They sell relatively cheap products and services and buy expensive ones. Because of that recipe, they remain at a disadvantage. They are one-sidedly dependent on extensive agriculture, mining, fishing and tourism. If we want to change this one-sided approach, money spent as internal European development aid can help bring the poorest Member States to the same level as the richer Member States. This could solve many problems in EU cooperation. The question sometimes remains whether these transfers are always well spent and thus lead to the desired result, or whether they result in not very meaningful prestige projects. In particular, pre-accession aid is sometimes used surprisingly. On the eve of their accession in 2004 and 2007, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and Poland put on the table plans to spend this money on the construction of motorways through protected natural areas. At a time like this, there is reason to be less enthusiastic about this form of development aid. Unfortunately, the late payment requested from the Netherlands in 2014 is not primarily intended to reduce those differences between rich and poor. For years, the EU has built up a tradition of large revenues and in proportion to under-utilisation. At the end of a financial year, surpluses on national contributions were repaid to the Member States. They were always predictable windfalls. Since more restrictions have been placed on the growth of these contributions in recent years, it has been a different direction. We are now seeing post-tax instead of refunds. An additional complication is that there is also redistribution between Member States. Some Member States need to pay up, others get money back, and those recipients also include countries that do not need it the most. This appears to be the result of a recalculation of EU payments as a result of the revision of the method of calculating Member States' gross national income. This recalculation does not relate to what the Netherlands does or fails to do, but to the relationship between Member States' GNIs. For the Netherlands, this means a post-tax of €1 billion and €103 million in 2014. This post-tax is now presented as a "gross national tax" on the assumption that it will be offset by a refund not yet agreed by the EU at a later stage for more than 40%. This return is, remarkably, not part of the budget change. This is particularly painful for the Netherlands because we are dealing with a combination of five factors. 1. We are already the most pronounced net contributor. 2. The post-tax rate is remarkably high. 3. Some other Member States receive extra money on this occasion. 4. The government gives the impression that it itself is surprised by this outcome. 5. Other Member States take more time to settle their post-payment. The obvious conclusion was: we are not going to pay for this. And if we really can't escape it in the end, we'll spread it over as long as possible, waiting as much as possible for set-off with future repayments. In the House of Representatives on 18 December 2014, SP and CDA amendments were put to the vote, which were not supported by the two government parties and were therefore rejected. For the CDA, this was even a reason to vote against this budget change and to take an advance on the procedure in this Chamber. Unlike the CDA and the PVV, the SP has in the end reluctantly agreed to it. For us, the argument is that earlier commitments, even if we criticize them, should be respected as long as we have not denounced them. Unfortunately, this post-payment proved to be the inevitable outcome of previous agreements. However, doubts remain as to the details of the calculations. At the time of the examination by the House of Representatives, it was expected that this huge payment would only take place after the House of Lords had also agreed to this supplementary budget. I understand that the payment still took place in 2014, in anticipation of the adoption of this budget change by the First Chamber. That seems unusual to me, because the government should take account of the possibility that this Chamber could not agree to this. It seems to me that the government's argument that it already had this money on the table, and could therefore easily pay quickly, should be subordinate to that. The story that we have plenty of money also fits very badly with the monster cuts that have made our public services in recent years. The SP is at least as concerned about the state of affairs as some other parties who, unlike us, voted against this budget change in the House of Representatives. Our conclusion is that the Netherlands should not be ignorant in accepting obligations that we cannot adequately foresee in advance. Also when it comes to our relationship with the European Union, caution is needed. Think before you start! Our commitment to this debate is not to reverse a previously agreed obligation. However, we want clarity about the possibility of limiting the risk of such setbacks to a maximum in future and we are surprised by the timing of the payment. All this brings me to the next five questions to the government. 1. Why was the government so surprised at first, rather than preparing public opinion in advance for the expected negative outcome? The recalculation was expected, but not at all. How is that possible? 2. Why is it not awaiting settlement with a partial compensation payment expected in the near future? We now needlessly temporarily give a large amount of money out of our hands. 3. What was the benefit of a quick payment from state resources still available within the 2014 service year? Why isn't it just waiting for this decision to be dealt with by the Supreme Court? 4. Does the government expect any more of such unpleasant surprises for the future? How do we prevent our country from being surprised again afterwards by the need for substantial additional expenditure on our EU membership? 5. What is the government's view of the report in De Telegraaf (De Telegraaf) - this is very topical - that it has asked the European Commission to keep the basis of calculation a secret? If that's the case, what's the reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u4	Provision is a short suspension. Is that enough for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u5	I can answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u6	Then we'll get right to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u7	Madam President! I would like to thank Members for their questions on the second supplementary budget for Foreign Affairs 2014. The second supplementary budget for 2014 contains, as Members know, changes related to changes in our budget. They include changes in the areas of security and stability, European cooperation, consular services and equipment costs. However, the most significant change is that concerning the increase in the EU's contribution as a result of the European post-taxation. I understand from Mr Meijer's remarks that it is really that and not so much the other elements of the Foreign Affairs budget. I would also like to thank Mr Van Strien for his questions. I see that he himself has a lot of experience in this field. He worked for the Economic Commission for Europe and then dealt with very complex dossiers, even though that was 30 years ago. It is simply important to answer the questions in the direction of the First Chamber, because I strongly disagree with the image of shadowiness and unclearness and possible politicisation of objective data. The Minister of Finance has already discussed the matter in detail, including during the General Financial Reviews here on 18 November 2014. To his previous answers to various questions from Parliament, I can add a number of things, in response to the question of explaining them again. I refer to the annual calculation of the GNI and VAT figures, to the unexpectedly high impact of this in 2014, on the commitment of the cabinet in this case and finally to the decision to meet the full gross amount at once on 30 December, without this supplementary budget being fully dealt with in this Chamber. I would like to begin by making a general comment. I hope to make it clear that this policy was not based on shadowiness or politicisation of figures. Actually, the opposite is true. I have been asked again how these figures have been achieved. As Members know, last year's post-taxation was the result of a recalculation of the GNI and VAT bases for the EU contribution. In the direction of Mr Meijer, I would add that the rise in GNI also means that richer countries pay more. It's embedded in the system. It is important to mention this again, because Mr Meijer's reasoning went in a different direction. I also note that it is an annual exercise. So it's not politicized. So it is not the same as Mr Van Strien who may have experienced at the time at the Economic Commission for Europe with the coal from South Africa. So it's objectified and not politicized. I'll say something about that in a minute. The statistics are first of all established in accordance with an EU regulation. For example, that regulation sets out which aspects of the economy are and are not included. These are classified information. Eurostat checks the figures and formally adopts them. It also assesses the figures for plausibility and consistency and makes an independent assessment, i.e. independent of politics. Eurostat receives advice from the so-called GNI Committee, which includes the statistical offices of the Member States. The same applies to the Central Statistical Office. In that sense, therefore, Mr Van Strien does not have to worry. The Directorate-General Budget of the Commission and the European Court of Auditors are represented as listeners. So they're also looking at whether it's all okay. The Committee advises on the quality aspects, comparability and completeness of the figures provided. On the basis of the GNI and VAT figures, the Commission shall calculate the Member States' payments. The figures and the payments are known, as this has been exchanged here before, after four years are finally established on the basis of all those checks and observations, including by the CBS. In the meantime, several audits are also carried out involving the European Court of Auditors. Eurostat may also decide, while maintaining the opinion of the GNI Committee, to make a reservation on part of the GNI calculation. It is therefore not the case that what a country delivers and what is political is taken for granted. This is the case, for example, when the figures are not sufficiently comparable internationally. It is, of course, important to show the Dutch citizens that we are doing this in a fair and honourable way. If there are reservations, they will remain until the underlying problem is resolved. Indeed, that annual process of technical recalculations had major effects last year. That was unexpected, as the Minister of Finance has pointed out before. For the Netherlands, the post-tax was mainly related to the source revision carried out by the CBS. In March 2014, the CBS published the impact of the revision on the 2010 figures. Where's the cause? I don't think that has anything to do with politics or shadowiness either. Mr Meijer spoke about the different stages in the development of the Dutch economy and the different economic competitive advantages. The Dutch economy is also developing. In the revision of the sources, it is important to look at the data now used by various public authorities, such as the Tax Administration and the Chamber of Commerce. This gives a more complete picture of the economy on parts, for example when it comes to the contributions ofzzp'ers and other self-employed persons. In the new data, the growing size of the ICT industry, for example, has been better mapped. That is a perfectly logical development. The Netherlands is developing, as other countries are developing, showing comparability, which is being analysed and monitored. Then, on the basis of the innovations of the economy, this estimate is made or provided. In March 2014, the CBS published the 2010 figures as mentioned. This showed that GDP was 7,6% higher in 2010. On the basis of these figures, I should like to explain very precisely to you that this is not a matter of shadowiness. It was possible to provide for the gross post-tax. That's what the government did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u8	The minister tells us how it's going to be. People from the CBS are also involved in that control. You can have a meeting with each other about the figures in Brussels or anywhere, but the compilation of those figures is based on national income. This is done on the basis of production statistics, which are partly incomplete. Some categories are not there, so they have to be estimated. Those are processes that just take a whole year. You may have an afternoon meeting about that, but then you don't know whether or not you're on the same page. I would therefore like to know much more about how this international comparison process is achieved. I am sure the Minister will not be able to tell us in five or ten minutes. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister that he sends this much more comprehensive in writing to the Chamber. I would also like to hear from the Minister the exact amounts involved for all the countries concerned and the extent of the corrections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u9	Mr President, I thought you had brought me to the Chamber to give some answers. If Mr Van Strien had wanted a letter, I would have gladly sent it. I'm explaining what's going on right now, because that's what was asked. I do not indicate how it is going to go about it, I will tell you exactly what the wordings are and who are involved at what point. Furthermore, I have shown that it is not an afternoon after noon or one sitting in Brussels; I do not understand how Mr Van Strien is going to do that. I have just indicated that this was even a four-year process, which looked precisely at the figures and involved so many institutions. I wasn't even clear yet, but I think I've been transparent and precise. On the basis of the figures and the way in which they are produced, it was possible to provide for the gross post-taxation. The final net effect was dependent on Mr Van Strien understands that as a statistician, the increase in GNI in other Member States, which has been determined according to the same system. It was not until October that such data became available, precisely because of its accuracy and the need to compare. As the Minister of Finance indicated in November, a possible follow-up levy was to be foreseen as a result of the resource revision over the period 2010 to 2013, but that did not apply to its size. That also makes sense, because because of the denominator effect you only know the size when you have both data. In October it was found that the Dutch adjusted GNI was relatively higher than that of other Member States. This can be done because of the correctly outlined methodology. Of the total levy of 9.5 billion, 1.1 billion came from the Netherlands. Since this amount was not budgeted, it will be redistributed to the Member States. I think that is a good sign for those who think that the Commission is spending. The Commission did not need these funds, so that it "refunded" part directly to the Member States via a regular distribution key. For the Netherlands, this is 5%, so the net effect of the 1.1 billion was 642 million: gross deduction 1.1 billion, deduction 461 million. This means that a clear procedure has been followed, with a clear presence of important institutions, including the famous CBS by Mr Van Strien. It was expected to change and its size depended on what became known in October. The net amount of 642 million was first mentioned in the report of 17 October 2014 of the Dutch Permanent Representation to the EU. The purpose of this report is fully involved in the first letter from the Minister for Finance of 28 October and in the reply to supplementary questions from Parliament. At several times, even now, by Mr Van Strien, we have been asked to make that report public. This will be discussed in the Cabinet this week. Generally speaking, as a foreign minister too, everything we share internationally with the Commission and/or with other governments is, of course, confidential; otherwise we will not be able to negotiate and no one will trust us anymore. However, we have been kept to maximum transparency. That is why Parliament's questions and letters have been extended and they dealt with exactly what we have done there. It is, of course, impossible to publish all diplomatic reports for just a moment, without having any problems in the future, because it will be very difficult to conduct international diplomatic movements. Nevertheless, it will be discussed in greater detail in the Cabinet. It is up to the Minister of Finance to inform the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u10	The minister just said, if you wanted a letter, you could have it. We have asked written questions in the Foreign Affairs Committee, including the same questions as the previous one: what is the situation and what are the figures? You will get a completely meaningless answer to that, with indeed a lot of words, without there being anything substantial in it that we want to know. The fact that we are now asking for the same thing again in the debate cannot surprise us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u11	No. That is why I am giving a comprehensive answer to your questions about how it went exactly and that is why I have prepared myself for that. In response to Mr Meijer's questions, the cabinet has made a threefold effort. Firstly, the Netherlands wanted to have more insight into the underlying data of the GNI increases. Secondly, a payment system was needed to allow payment in instalments. Finally, the Netherlands wants to take measures to prevent the situation from happening again in the future, because no one stood there and let there be no misunderstanding about this. This is an extremely complicated process in Europe and we will therefore make proposals to do so differently. The first two points have been met: the desired information has been provided and a payment arrangement has been set up in the Netherlands. That is what we wanted, especially if you are faced with such a scale at once. Everyone understands that that's a nasty case. Payments based on results of statistical revisions can be spread over time if they exceed a certain size. This will prevent a repetition of last year's situation in the future. I think that the Dutch commitment has been a fair one and has also produced results. As far as the future is concerned, the Commission has undertaken to evaluate the process of post-taxation and to come forward with proposals for improvement. This too seems necessary for the Dutch Government. The cabinet awaits the results of this. As promised, the Minister of Finance will send a letter to Parliament containing concrete proposals for improvements in the system of the EU budget. Perhaps this can partly meet the wishes of the PVV Group. For the future, the cabinet wants to move towards a system in which Member States are less attacked by arbitrary supplementary budgets. For the payment, the Netherlands has decided to pay the full gross amount of the subsidy, and we have been asked why we did so on 30 December last year. In doing so, the payment scheme was used, which was also called for by the Dutch authorities. The government's reasons for paying the full amount at the relevant date have already been explained by the Minister of Finance at various times. These include cash management and the expenditure framework. As far as cash management is concerned, it is normally attractive to pay as late as possible because of course interest has to be paid for the financing. However, at the time of payment, the Dutch State had to do with negative interest rates on short-term loans. An early payment of the post levy therefore gave a small interest rate advantage. So early payment means winning money for Dutch taxpayers. In addition, an early payment was desirable because the Dutch State had to deal temporarily with a cash surplus. So it was wise management of the Dutch State to do so. That cash surplus had arisen, among other things, because the Dutch State had unexpectedly gained more income from, among other things, ING's early repayment. The payment of the post-tax in 2014 reduced this cash surplus, which meant that less money had to be temporarily deported at negative interest rates. A question has also been asked about the payment of the post-tax, as this was a European Treaty obligation. The evolution of the treatment path of this budget has no effect on the existence of that payment obligation. All Member States had to notify the Commission before 1 December 2014 when the post-tax would be paid. During the General Financial Reviews, the Minister of Finance spoke here in the First Chamber on 18 November about the fact that the Cabinet would report the decision on payment in the Autumn Note. In the Autumn paper 2014 of 21 November, it is explicitly stated that the cabinet wanted to fully provide for the post-tax in 2014, especially in order to save money for the Dutch taxpayer. As soon as that date was communicated to the Commission, it became binding. It is also settled case-law that an obligation to pay must be respected, even if no money has yet been earmarked in the budget. In doing so, I have answered the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. Before we start with the second term, maybe we can ask a question. If I understand correctly, the Minister is going to send a letter to the Chamber. In that letter he is going to answer a number of questions that have now been asked. Can I assume that the Minister will also answer my questions, in the sense that I get a comparison with all the GNIs, including the estimates, which are part of them, of all the Member States that make this contribution to the EU together? If I put it that way, can I assume those numbers are in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u13	That is not the commitment I made. I didn't make a commitment about writing a letter. I have indicated that the Minister of Finance will write a letter to the Chamber. The letter discusses the possibilities for improving the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u14	Thank you. We need the second term of office. I call Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. I am not concerned here with political motives, as the Minister calls them, as in South Africa's statistical example. The point is that we in the PVV Group, and I think we are not alone when I read the newspaper, want to know exactly whether or not we are paying our reasonable share, as far as that is reasonable at all, because there are differences of opinion on this too. That is precisely what we want to be able to control. I have heard the Minister specifically say that he is not going to include these calculations in his letter. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Strien, Mr Sörensen, Mr Meijer, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Fritters-Klijnen and Mr Kops proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European post-tax of EUR 642.7 million is based on the recalculations of GNI, including the black money circuit, of all Member States;]] [[Whereas the Dutch contribution, except for the Dutch figure, is at least as dependent on GNI, including the black money circuit, of the other Member States;]] [[whereas at present there is not enough information available to monitor these calculations;]] [[Whereas the control mechanism itself is not publicly available;]] [[invites the Government, within one month, to provide full clarity on the GNI figures of all Member States on the basis of which the Dutch contribution has been calculated, and to explain in detail what the control mechanism for the calculation of GNI figures looks like,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34085-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his explanation of the underlying data and the prior procedure. He confirms my impressions in advance. There is little difference in this respect. It means that the relationship between GNIs per Member State and the positions of other Member States may affect the contribution of another Member State. I think that this is a rather painful point, although I agree with the Minister that, as far as those higher payments come from our growing prosperity and wealth, this is somewhat more justifiable than if there were a reverse relationship. I believe that this growth has been less recent in recent years. It would be a good idea to give full insight into how such calculations are handled. There is a great deal of discontent in society about the relationship between the Member State, especially the Netherlands, and the European Union. If part of that discontent were to be unjustified, it would be very sensible if the government, through transparency, were to take away the reason for this part of that disgust. It is precisely from a positive attitude towards European cooperation that it is very important not to keep secrets about it. In this respect, I hope that the cabinet council announced by the Minister will lead to that complete transparency. I have the impression that the Netherlands is much more cautious in this respect, and not just now, than some other Member States of the European Union. Not every transparency is a violation of EU agreements or of the proper handling of neighbours. I can imagine that the objections that appear to be alive to the government, also in view of newspaper reports, because they are expected to have a bad relationship with others, might not be so bad. I would argue for as little secrecy as possible. My question about the moment of payment has in itself been adequately answered by the story about the negative interest rates and the special circumstances in this case. As a result, it was obvious what otherwise would have been unusual. But then there is a question, because that payment was made prior to the first deadline, which is what I asked for in order to approve this budget change by the First Chamber. There would actually have been more reason to raise the alarm by the end of December. At the time, we had to hold an additional meeting on 22 December because of the law limiting top incomes, but perhaps we should have taken this budget amendment with us on the same date to ensure that this amount could be paid by the end of 2014 and that we could give a timely opinion on whether or not to approve it by the First Chamber. I think this would have been more correct. The Minister did not comment on the reports also mentioned by Mr Van Strien in De Telegraaf. It suggests that the secrecy surrounding this is not so much imposed by the European Union or by the other Member States, but rather at the explicit request of the Dutch Government itself. If that is the case, then there is a new situation which looks a little different from what I heard in the Minister's reply. So I would also like clarification on this. With the PVV speaker, I share the desire for full transparency in this respect, so that any differences of opinion that may exist in the future, at least in front of the press and public opinion, are clear on how this sort of thing comes about and we will not be unnecessarily surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u17	We have arrived at the second term of the Foreign Minister. I understand he has the opportunity to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u18	Madam President. I would like to thank Members for their second-term questions. I would like to repeat, in rather strong words, that my response is intended to indicate how the procedure has been conducted: with quite a lot of precision and with transparency. The image that somehow something shadowy has happened here should be removed on the basis of what I have indicated and the course of events. Yeah, we were surprised at the size. It is right that you have noticed this. That is why we have asked the Commission for a number of things, and you know how they were then met. I welcome the words of Mr Meijer in the second term, which states that he understands why we have made these payments rather quickly. That was right to ensure that this would happen in a way that would cost the Dutch taxpayer as little money as possible. The payment of the post-tax was a European Treaty obligation. The evolution of the treatment pathway of this second supplementary budget has no effect on the existence of that payment obligation. All the Member States, as I said at first reading, had to inform the Commission before 1 December of the deadline for paying the post-tax. On 18 November, during the General Financial Reviews in the First Chamber, the Minister of Finance discussed the fact that the Cabinet would report its decision on payment in the Najaarsnota. In the Autumn paper 2014 of 21 November, it was explicitly stated that the cabinet wanted to abolish the post-tax in 2014 in full. There is therefore no misunderstanding or lack of transparency about this either. As soon as that date was communicated to the Commission, it became binding. It is also settled case-law that an obligation to pay must be respected, even if no money has yet been earmarked in the budget. The result is that the post-tax has already been paid, while the second supplementary budget for foreign affairs has not yet been finalised. I understand that there was a request for a debate at the end of last year. That is what the Minister of Finance has said. I understood that then there was no majority in this Chamber to enforce that. I come to the question of the requests that have been made. Of course, I cannot go into articles in De Telegraaf. I understand from the media that De Telegraaf himself wanted to bring something to justice. That is, of course, his right; of course, I cannot go into it. Reports and instructions shall not generally be made public or confidential. This has nothing to do with shadowiness, but this is, as I have just said, an essence of my ability to operate international diplomacy. The commitment of the cabinet to, and the outcome of, negotiations in Brussels is always shared and accounted for in advance but possibly also during the process and afterwards with the Chamber. Provision of daily administrative instructions and reports would also undermine the necessary confidentiality and effectiveness of the negotiation process. This has nothing to do with shadowiness. We answer questions that are put here in the Chamber. That goes to honour and conscience on the basis of what we are negotiating. Nevertheless, the House of Representatives has been promised that further discussion will be held in the Cabinet. This Chamber will, of course, be briefed on this matter. Finally, I will deal with the procedure, the precision. It was not my intention to say that you politicized things; I would not dare say that. You have every right to ask me your questions, and I would like to answer them. I would just like to point out, in connection with the above-mentioned comparison, that there would be a political influence on the figures, the extremely precise procedures. As I said, it's not just a conversation in Brussels. I have indicated exactly how this is going and how the Central Statistical Office, which you know well, is involved. Then it is important to remove the atmosphere surrounding it, as if the Dutch government were somehow unable to trust or trust the matter. The independent assessment of the comparability of GNI figures is to be carried out by Eurostat. The way in which Eurostat monitors and records this is described in answers to written parliamentary questions. It is therefore not the case that I, or the Minister of Finance, have to write another letter. It contains extensive information, including in response to questions from the member Omtzigt in the Lower House, who were answered on 25 November 2014. On the basis of the published figures and European regulations, the Netherlands is obliged to pay that post-tax. There has been very precise reference here to the whole verification procedure, including Eurostat's audit of plausibility and consistency. This process of checking numbers is, as I said, a continuous process. The GNI data of all those individual Member States shall be provided by the national statistical offices. There's not a lot of mystery about that. The reply I sent to the Chamber on 6 March explains the process of establishing GNI for the purposes of the EU contribution. The whole process is contained in the GNI Regulation that you also know. It shall include, inter alia, a verification of all such GNI data. The comparability, reliability and completeness of GNI data is ensured through this procedure. In this light, I would also like to advise against the motion by Mr Van Strien. In this way, I believe, I have come to the conclusion of the second-term answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-eerstekamer-7.u19	Thank you. I'm here to deal with the bill. I note that the vote on the legislative proposal is desirable. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motion.
