ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the people present in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. Last but not least, of course, I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, who is here at the invitation of the Chamber to defend his proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today I have the honour to replace my colleague Tjitske Siderius, who unfortunately reported ill this morning. It's up to me to replace her as best I can, so I'll do my best. I would like to thank my colleagues for allowing me once to take part in a debate of this committee, of which I am not a member, on such an important subject as child care. I myself used to be a policy worker child care and then spokesperson child care. I looked it up for a moment: my last debate on this was three years ago. So when I was told this morning that I was going to do the child care debate, I thought: am I up-to-date? I'm sure there's a lot of colleagues in the room who feel that way. So I was happy to read that the law before us today was a kind of trending topic in the childcare debates three years ago. Indeed, anchoring the position of parents in the law at the time was a major issue. So that's the law we're dealing with today. I remember that the Kraneveldt-van der Veen/Koşer Kaya motion, of the Labour Party and D66, gave rise to this law at the time. I was sitting in the back of the benches, like my policy staff now, and I was somewhat jealous of that motion. Sometimes you think: we all make proposals and now another party submits a very nice motion. It is not surprising that this motion was adopted unanimously at the time. However, I am surprised that the cabinet itself does not implement this motion, which has given rise to this law. In fact, the motion states quite literally that, in view of the fact that there are childcare providers who, despite a negative opinion from the parent committees, are making price increases and believe that these are undesirable practices that parents can do little to prevent in practice, the government is calling for concrete proposals to be made this year on how it intends to combat these practices and how it intends to strengthen the position of parents. This motion is from 2009 and we are now in 2015. It is richly late, but there is now, in the end, a bill to implement this motion. It also removes the right to advice in the event of price changes, whereas in the motion of the Labour Party and D66, which everyone in this Chamber was in favour of, it was right that this was the problem that should be addressed. My colleague Siderius has therefore made a nice amendment to correct this mistake. I assume that it is a mistake on the part of the cabinet, which would like to fix it now that it has seen this amendment. I therefore assume that the cabinet can accept this proposal. I have, of course, heard from the media that other parties are also making this proposal. We will therefore come up with a joint amendment with the Labour Party to make this proposal. I did read something disturbing in the cabinet's replies, namely that parents can go to another kindergarten if they are not satisfied with the price-quality ratio. Of course, it doesn't work that way. If you buy a rotten apple at the market, next time you just go to another stall to buy an apple. But taking care of your kids doesn't work that way. Your greatest asset is only to be made available to good counselors and educators. You don't want to be wiser at the expense of your child. Children are not a commodity, and childcare should not be a market stall. You're not gonna take your kid through all kinds of childcare centers and host parents like a mail package. Allow parents to have a say on the price-quality ratio while retaining the advisory right of the Parents' Committee. The SP has another amendment (34045, No. 9) for the preparation of alternative parent committees for up to 30 children, instead of 50 children as indicated in the legislative proposal. The SP attaches to small-scale childcare. We also attach great importance to the fact that this small-scale care system can count on the participation of parents. The inclusion of an alternative parenting committee with up to 50 children or 50 host parents makes it very easy for involuntary holders of children's centers not to comply with the law. There are many small children's centers with less than 50 children who have an excellent parenting committee. In the eyes of the SP, parental involvement is very important. We should therefore encourage holders to set up a parent committee. Finally, I would like to explain the last amendment (34045, point 10) to the SP. This is about the supervision of childcare, preschool playrooms and host-parent care. This was a big topic three years ago, just like it is now. I do not see much improvement in the bill, I shall just mention it. The GGD should inspect whether they meet the basic requirements. Strangely enough, individual host parents are especially inspected on the basis of a sample. Municipalities only have to inspect 5% of the individual host parents each year. Municipalities often opt for the new host parents. Research by the Dagblad van het Noorden revealed that 1,200 host parents had never been inspected. Most of them had been active for four years or more, but had never had that inspection. The investigation of the justice system also showed it remarkably often. For example, 88 times people failed to meet these requirements. That is worrying, because when the courts start ringing the bells, there is usually a danger to the safety of the children. A host parent is now checked once every 20 years for an average speech test. The SP likes to make that every four years. That is why we have tabled this amendment. All in all, three years after that, I can stand here again and say that I am very happy with the anchoring of the position of parents in child care, with the host parents and with the children's playrooms. I have three proposals here, partly made possible by the Labour Party, which improve the bill even more. I trust that the cabinet will also consider this to be a very good improvement. I'd like to hear that back from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Kooiman. Welcome back to this file!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. My contribution to this debate starts with a reflection of the opening of Mrs Kooiman of the SP. Two and a half years ago, I became the first spokesperson for child care. One of the first discussions I had on the policy area of childcare was with Marjet Winsemius of the Foundation For Working Parents. The subject of that discussion was the question of why parent committees in childcare are so often not allowed to get off the ground. Her answer to that question was quite simple: give those committees some more to crumble into the milk and you will see what will happen. This bill is about more influence for parents in child care. The strengthening of parents in childcare and the strengthening of parental involvement have a positive effect on childcare. There is no doubt about that in this Chamber, given also the Chamber-wide support for the motion which the SP has just mentioned. Secretary of State De Krom was already working on it during the previous cabinet period. This minister has continued and completed the work. That's why this bill is here. That is a good thing, because I think that simple analysis of Marjet Winsemius is correct. As soon as these parent committees have a stronger position, they will of course get even more off the ground. This bill actually contains improvements. Dispute resolution is better regulated, for all childcare organisations. Parents are given a right of advice on quality and a greater role in relation to health care inspections in child care. However, the legislative proposal also has a number of sides which do not sufficiently strengthen or even seem to weaken the position of parents. On these points, I will address myself on behalf of the CDA in my contribution, because the conclusion seems to be that the legislative proposal needs to be tightened. The bill concerns a stronger position of parents in childcare. Then why is the Minister taking a step forward in the proposal, but also a step back? However, parents are rightly given the right to advice on quality. At the same time, however, the right to advice on price is being deprived. This seems like an illogical choice. Parental association BOinK has therefore also sent a rather sharp letter this week which, as far as I am concerned, does not misunderstand the criticism of this part of the law. My question to the Minister is therefore: what problem does this solve? Why delete the right to advice at a price? Price and quality depend on each other. You can't trade one right of advice against another, can you? As I understand it, this wish is very broad, including in the Chamber. I wonder whether the Minister could go into this more explicitly and whether he would like to reconsider the considerations expressed by BOinK, and also by the Chamber. The answers we have received so far in writing are a little brief. The law makes a really good step in terms of the position of parents in relation to the GGD inspections. This is also reflected in the very first debate we had on childcare. I think that as a new Chamber we were still doing this with Secretary of State De Krom during the formation of this cabinet. Together with colleagues Yücel of the PvdA and Van Weyenberg of D66 I tabled a motion. The motion stated that the position of parents in relation to the GGD inspections should be strengthened, on the one hand towards the child care holders in order to strengthen their position, but on the other hand also to emphasise the position vis-à-vis the GGD. As far as I am concerned, it is therefore very good that this has been taken over. That's half the case. In fact, the holder is given an obligation to discuss it with that parent committee. But what if the parent committee doesn't understand things and wants an explanation from the GGD in a conversation? That motion was also intended to take a step in that direction. I'm not comfortable about it yet. I understand the Minister's response so far. I understand the GGD has an independent position of its own. At the same time, even if you read the advice of the GGD on this law, he says: transparency has a major disadvantage that it can lead to more objection and more fuss for the municipality. Now it has an effect both towards the holder and towards the enforcer if parents are better informed and have a stronger position. But that's exactly what this law is all about. Hence the question about the second part of that motion at the end of 2012 on the strengthening of the role of the parent committees in this case the inspection. Is there sufficient assurance that the parent committee can ask the GGD about a negative opinion or a distributed minor? Shouldn't that be secured by law or could there be another way to ensure that the GGD also engages in that conversation? That way, parents also gain a stronger position. I would like an answer from the Minister. That is the second part of the 2012 motion. The 50% limit is the last point I want to talk about. I'm struggling with that subject. There are a lot of questions to ask about that. BOinK also made it very clear in the letter that the risk is that we will have far fewer parent committees. Parental committees are then afraid to be lifted. Surely that cannot be the effect of a law intended to strengthen their position. That hard cut at 50% also has something uncomfortable. Why 49 the one and 51 something completely different? So I'd like a little more explanation from the Minister. Why is this so? And does the Minister see that risk as clearly defined by BOinK? And what about the alternative parent consultation? Are there not some more frameworks to give about what does and what doesn't? Could an e-mail survey suffice? Or should that be secured in a tighter way? Does it have to be in the law? Is there another way? I'm gonna finish up. Parent involvement in childcare has been a topic of discussion in this Chamber for many years. Mrs. Kooiman was just talking about it. In the sometimes difficult discussions we have with each other, for example about parental participation crèches or about parental initiatives to take over childcare, such as at De Kleine Prins in Amsterdam or De Kasteeltuin in Rotterdam, there is always consensus in the Chamber on one thing, namely that it is good that the commitment and involvement of parents there is so great. We would like that more in regular childcare. That could be a step forward. I am broadly in favour of this law. It takes a few steps in the right direction, but when we talk specifically about that advice, there are still a few additional steps to be taken in the right direction to make parents' position in childcare even stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the cabinet aims to give parents more guarantees to get a grip on the quality of childcare. That's a good endeavor. We will therefore support this approach. The starting point is to strengthen the position of parents in the area of childcare. That's good. Mr Heerma and Mrs Kooiman also praised this. When parents are at work, it is very important that their children are in good hands, that parents can monitor the quality of childcare and that there is a proper complaint procedure in the Disputes Commission. There are also simplifications. That schedule looks a lot better than the old schedule. There is also much earlier a binding ruling. That's very nice, too. It's all gonna get easier. Different counters for different types of complaints just don't work. So that's changing now. There will be a uniform right of complaint for each parent, regardless of whether a parent has a place of child with a holder of a children's centre who is a member of the interbranch organisation and whatever the content of the complaint. Again, that means that every parent has the opportunity to go to the Disputes Committee. That's beautiful. The education inspection is responsible for the second-line inspection of childcare. The inspection is very much in favour of this bill. In this context, however, the PVV has a question. Is the inspection going to check unannounced? I think that's a simple question. I also have a few other questions. I will start with the position of regular childcare and preschool playrooms in relation to early and preschool education. I know this falls under the Ministry of Education, but it has to do with this. These vves are intended for young children between two and four years of age with an imminent educational disadvantage. To what extent does this fat-subsidised provision compete with regular childcare? There's about 350 million a year in it. For regular childcare, the times are tough enough. I refer to the report which states that this sum of 350 million is not being properly spent and that it does not really help to work in this way. As everyone knows, subsidy is only a means of making something that cannot be profitable seem valuable. The question now is whether subsidies here destroy more than we like. People using the VVE facility often pay less for this, depending on the municipality in which they live, sometimes even much less or nothing at all. Does the Minister consider this desirable and fair? As far as the PVV is concerned, the plug for the grant of the VV's will be released anyway. Parents can pay for the costs themselves. A growing stack of studies shows that the vve does not produce clear results, not direct learning effects, nor in the longer term. Is the Minister prepared to make efforts within the cabinet to tackle this vve-shade? The minister doesn't like fakes; he likes to fight them. Does he also want to take this mock-up and quit the grant? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the costs. Exactly how high will the structural costs for childcare institutions be after the introduction of this bill? I read that this contribution is linked to the obligation to connect the holder. This does not provide any clarity at a time when many childcare facilities are struggling and even masse are going bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. Childcare has been going on for some tough years. The market has shrunk sharply, the economic crisis has caused a great deal of loss of demand and then there were also the cuts in the childcare allowance. All that bad news and the hard times have a side effect, namely that parents often have to choose again. Where in the past you were often happy when there was still a spot, there is now free choice for more and more parents. That is a good thing, because as a parent you can choose more and more on the basis of quality. It is then of course important that you know what that quality is. We have been talking for many years about how to strengthen the position of parents in childcare. I refer to the motion tabled by my predecessor, Mrs Koşer Kaya, to which Mrs Kooiman referred. Indeed, in one of my first debates, Mrs Yücel, Mr Heerma and I tabled a motion on the role of inspection. My group therefore welcomes this proposal. Now attention will be paid to ensuring quality. Parents often have an information deficit. It is very good that this improves now and that the law puts the parent committees much more in a position to get the necessary information on that quality from the holder. That is good news and that is why my group is also positive about this bill. The motion of the groups of the CDA, the Labour Party and D66 on the involvement in the GGD inspections is also included. This is now well regulated by the law. From now on, the child centre, host parents' office or preschool playroom should also bring the inspection report of the GGD to the attention of the parents. They need to discuss it with the parent committee. I do have one more question about this. Why has it not been chosen that the GGD should also be able to enter into the conversation with the Parents' Committee or that the Parents' Committee should at least be able to request that discussion? The argument that this will lead to a lot of extra hassle is a bit complicated to me, because you want this conversation to get going if there are problems. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Can the parent's position be further strengthened here? The purpose of the law is to strengthen the position of parents in child care, isn't it? In this light, my group was surprised that the right to advice would fall on the price. That sounds a bit like a trade-out: you can talk more about the quality if you are willing to talk less about the price. Of course, the entrepreneur is ultimately about the price, but it is fine if there is a discussion with the parent committee. The argument that this often leads to hassle seems to me to be an argument for retaining this right rather than for making it disappear, because this is really not going to be any less and now you have at least one place to talk about it. My group is preparing an amendment on this. I have already seen other amendments, but I'm sure we'll get through that. In my group's view, we could stick to the right of advice on the price as it currently exists. As far as I am concerned, this is in line not only with the letter from BOinK, the representative of the parents, but also with the comment from the Council of State. In my opinion, it is right that you cannot separate quality and price. Quality has a price and it is not wise to pull those two things completely, certainly not because we may soon be in a world where some parents still do not have much to choose. Then it's also good if they can talk about the price. I am thinking of childcare in shrinking areas or in rural areas, where there are not so many organisations between which parents can make a free choice. It is also possible that waiting lists will arise again. That seems far away now, but in a few years' time it may be completely different, if the economy attracts. If parents have less choice to choose another childcare organisation, it is valuable if they are still able to enter into the conversation about the price. And I am not talking about not wanting people to be forced or forced to bring their child to another childcare organisation because of the price that cannot be discussed. Parents are often very reluctant to do so, because it is not in the best interests of the child. My group is therefore in favour of the amendments before us. I assume that this will lead to a joint amendment. We are talking about the powers of the parent committees, but not every child center or playroom has one. The large number of institutions where this is not the case has been mentioned. It is the most common offence; that one does not have a parent committee. The bill stipulates that there should be such a committee from 50 children. If that really does not work, an institution with less than 50 children can shape alternative parental consultation, for example by organising a public consultation evening twice a year, as the Minister writes in response to the many questions that have been asked. That is an improvement in itself, because it makes it more explicit what this alternative parental consultation should consist of. The question is how hard this commitment is. I don't think anyone wants organizations with less than 50 children to think it's less hard. My group still has concerns about this. What standards should this alternative parental consultation comply with? Who's gonna supervise that? Is the GGD going to check and publish this by default? Could the Minister respond to the care of associations such as Working Parents and BOinK that there is a risk that some entrepreneurs will slowly but surely die out of their parenting committee if there are fewer than 50 children? I know that this is not the purpose of this bill at all, but there are real concerns that this is going to happen. I'd like to hear a response to this. I have two short points to make. Is it true that parental participation crèches are excluded from this legislative proposal, as they provide for this in a very different way, namely because the parents provide the care? What about the timing, exactly? Only later will there be a separate bill that hits the OPCs. That's in consultation now. I've been looking at the consultation version. This gives plenty of room for parental participation crèches. How do we prevent the law that we are discussing today from coming into force when that law is not yet in place? I don't think this is the plan. Can the Minister indicate how this is going in time? It is also very important for parents to be able to engage in dialogue with the teaching staff. That's often daily, in the morning and when you come to pick up your child, the one you talk to about how it's going at day care. I regularly hear concerns as to whether communication with parents is sufficiently embedded in the training of teaching staff. Is that enough in training and could we not take steps forward to prepare these employees for these conversations too, so that they have been able to practice with them and have been trained to do so? In this way, they can contribute to a good contact between childcare and parents and thus also to a safe place for children, which, as far as I am concerned, should ultimately be the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. Accessible and high quality childcare is very important for the PvdA. Parents can be an important sounding board and best consider the quality of care and good development of their children. The regulation of control in a sector with an important and socially very relevant role is also an important point for my group. The childcare organisation is an important labour market instrument but it also has an important development function for our children. That is why we are very pleased with the ambition of this minister to strengthen the position of parents and the role they can play in this. This is also a shared wish of this Chamber, as we have just heard from colleagues. I would like to go into a little more detail about the relationship between a strong parenting position in childcare and quality. Then I come to the issue of greater ownership of parents in the sector with an important public task. First of all, the quality of teaching. Every parent wants what's best for her or his child in child care. This strengthening of the parental position in childcare is an important means of further promoting this educational quality, as parents involved can play a useful role as interested parties. After all, it's about their children. Parents therefore have an interest in ensuring that children have a safe and good development environment when they are at work. It is also a plus on entrepreneurship for the childcare organisation. They have a feeling with the wishes of the parents and entrepreneurs can make use of valuable insights, extra thinking power and ideas from parents, enabling them to provide even better services. This is good for our youngest children and entrepreneurs. Then there's control. This bill gives more control to parents in a sector with an important public task. The educational ambition of a childcare organisation, possibly insufficient scores in response to inspection reports and further improvement points will soon be issues of discussion. This gives childcare organisations a very valuable and natural incentive to improve the quality of the care they provide. That's good for the kids and good for the company. The present legislative proposal also provides that parents' judgement on quality in case of disagreement does not have to be non-binding. All parents and all parent committees will soon be able to contact a complaints committee and/or dispute committee. At present, only 34% of holders are automatically affiliated to a Disputes Commission. In the new situation, the GGD will ensure that a holder joins the Disputes Commission. If this does not happen, then there is an offence and the municipality will have to act in enforcement. As far as we are concerned, this is an important improvement. Furthermore, this bill contains a number of elements that we have some concerns and questions about. One of my group's first concerns is the limit of 50 children in childcare, under which a parent committee is no longer required. This leaves a significant part of the institutions out of the question, while the legislative proposal is not clear on what the alternative parental consultation is about. At present, all childcare organisations are obliged to set up parent committees and not later. When exactly isn't it? How is it then assessed whether sufficient efforts have been made? Again, what is the alternative parent consultation? Where is the desirable good talk about quality, discussing inspection reports and educational ambitions? In short, how does a well-balanced judgment of parents come about that can be used by childcare organisations? Can the Minister comment on this? I'm coming to my second concern. This bill also provides for the right of parents to advise on the price to lapse. In doing so, the government gives reasons for the fact that there are sufficient alternatives in the region in response to questions put by the Chamber. However, there are a lot of arguments to explain why this is a bad thing. I would just like to comment specifically on the argument of the alternative in the region: in the shrinking regions and in sparsely populated areas, it is not self-evident that there are logical alternatives, especially if we hope to attract the economy in the near future. But even more important is the Labour Party's view that getting insight and an explanation and talking about the price with a child care organisation for parent committees has added value, because quality and price cannot be seen separately from each other. Insight into the price structure, if everything goes well, also grows support. If, in the opinion of the parent committees, there is an unreasonable justification for the level of prices, then an assessment may be made. We therefore believe that parents should be able to find a place to check their advice or judgement. The Labour Party attaches great importance to this. Can the Minister comment on this? We also have an amendment on this. Several colleagues have also prepared for this. We will see how we can insert that. I come to the third point I have questions about. My group believes that the contact between the GGD and the parent committee on inspections can make a valuable contribution to better inspections and quality improvement in the childcare organisation. Mr Heerma also made this point on behalf of the CDA. Is it desirable to arrange this contact in the same way as this legislative proposal or in its elaboration? Can the Minister comment on this? In conclusion, we welcome the Minister's intention to strengthen the position of parents in childcare by means of this bill, allowing parents and organisations to work together to improve educational quality in childcare. There will be a uniform complaint regime and a dispute procedure, whereby disputes can be settled in an orderly manner and no longer without obligation. My group also believes that it is extremely important to exercise control over parents in a sector with an important social role and a public role. It's gonna be taken care of here. All this can contribute to the best development and care for our youngest children, which ultimately is all about us. However, on behalf of my group, I have also raised some questions and serious concerns. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kooiman said it started with a motion in 2009, which was also supported by the VVD. In the recitals of the motion, it was about scarcity. It was about parents having to take a number of conditions because otherwise they would lose the child's place. In an ideal situation in which there is no such shortage, you actually leave it to entrepreneurs to compete. Thus, the Childcare Act is also meant to bind parents and children by providing a good price and good quality. Childcare institutions that do this well will attract and grow more parents. The opposite will happen with childcare facilities that do the opposite. So we have to let competition do its job, ideally. I say 'idealiterally', because there is still a discussion on quality in childcare. We are also conducting these with the Minister, on the new supervision, which sets out quality criteria. As far as the VVD is concerned, they must be transparent so that parents know the quality of the childcare institution and can make a conscious choice. That's how you should let it do its job. As long as this is not the case, the VVD can justify that there is a legislative proposal that allows parents to advise on quality. My fellow Member, Mr Libertarian, is less liberal, because he wants to deal with the price formation by entrepreneurs. Price, however, is something of entrepreneurs. It's up to them to decide. It's not up to the parents to say anything about that. If they think it is too expensive, they should go to another childcare facility. Then I hear that this is difficult in shrinking regions, but what are we going to do if there is only one baker in a shrinking region? Are we going to give advice about his bread price? Or are we going to give advice on the price of the butcher's meat? Where does it stop if you want to get involved in the price? My group can very well justify the proposal in terms of quality and price. This bill has a lead time of a few years. My group wonders how discussions have gone with the sector. Just before this consultation, for example, we received a strong letter from BOinK, which said: we do not agree with it. How did the process go, did the Minister involve the childcare sector in this bill? What did parties think? In short, what is the situation with regard to the involvement of the sector in the drafting of this legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u9	Do I understand correctly that the VVD justifies the control of parents and the talk about a good care for the youngest children? Do I also understand that the VVD compares quality care for our youngest children with a product or service in the ordinary market, such as Albert Heijn's cookies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u10	The difference between the Labour Party and the VVD is that Labour Party wants to regulate everything with government laws and regulations. You're gonna get some really big laws that are going on in a lot of people. The VVD believes much more in incentives. Make sure parents can choose price and quality. Then the childcare institution, if it wants to survive, will comply with the wishes of the parents. This is how you create customer and child satisfaction; not with rules. That's the best incentive you can give. We should not think so much that we can regulate quality standards in the law. Of course I'm not comparing kids to anything. It's about the principle. How does it work and what is the best? Competition often leads to the best outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u11	Does the VVD agree with me that the involvement of parents, in the sense that parents and organisations work together for better quality, contributes to a good customer feeling from entrepreneurship? That is also important to me. Does this also lead to better products? What other, nicer incentive is there to think of? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u12	That's exactly what I'm saying. A smart childcare facility does that, too. He's got the parents involved because it's better. But you shouldn't prescribe that with a law. You have to let the mechanism do its job. That is the fundamental difference between the Labour Party and the VVD. The Labour Party expects everything from laws. We expect it from supply and demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u13	Apart from the fact that Mr Mulder has just mentioned children and sandwiches in one sentence, I would not have done so, I do not quite understand. The Council of State says that price and quality cannot be seen separately. What's wrong with talking to each other about this and settling this? How many examples does Mr Mulder know in which this is very bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u14	I do not know about examples where things are bad, but I do agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. This naturally nuances my point of view. I find quality to be fair. The Council of State is right to say that it is also about price in the end. There's no getting away from that. I said earlier that this is not necessary in the ideal situation of the VVD. I can justify quality and I suspect that there is a price debate behind it, not because I want to, but because it is quite automatic. I suspect that, in any case, price will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u15	Then I completely don't understand the problem with that right of advice. Mr Mulder rightly referred to the 2009 motion by my colleague, Mr Koşer Kaya, among others. It says: "Do something against those places where parents can't really talk about the price." Mr Mulder has just said with pride: we supported him. But in the next sentence, he yells that he's really sorry about that. I just don't understand it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u16	The motion dates from 2 June 2009. It is now 2015 and the situation is very different. It's balanced. Then there was a shortage and then you can think there's something to settle. Now that is much less necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr Mulder is also triggering me now. Is this the statement of the VVD spokesperson that parental participation in childcare is purely cyclically dependent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u18	No, it's not purely cyclical. Childcare is special, because it is partly cyclically dependent, given unemployment, but also partly dependent on the government. Ideally, we are creating a stable situation for childcare. We should not increase and decrease endlessly. That's how you do it. With a stable government policy and competition, you get a balance. In 2009, there was no balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u19	That's interesting. What policy does the VVD group then propose to stop child care from taking part in the economic cycle with the government? Childcare is, of course, a special sector, because it concerns children and not cookies or breads. That is why the motion, which was supported by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, was not of a cyclical nature either. The motion simply stated that the position of parents in childcare should be strengthened, regardless of whether the economic situation is high or low. It is a pity that the VVD Group changes its position and then hides behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u20	The VVD does not change its position, the VVD notes that the childcare sector is moving: the surcharge goes up and down; there is another structure; from 2005 there is more market forces. You need stability. If you have it, childcare institutions can work on quality and are not constantly growing and shrinking. With stability you have an ideal situation with supply and demand. I just said that the ideal situation is not yet there. That is why we opt for advice on quality. Unintentionally, participation gets away with it at a price. It is extraordinary that a childcare institution should be punished if it fails with a parent committee. Eventually, you can't force people to sit on a parenting committee. You can't say with a gun to the head, and now you have to get in. You can never guarantee 100% that that will work. Of course, you also have trouble filling such committees. Why are you taking your kid to day care? Because you're incredibly busy. Then you don't have much time to sit on a parent's committee. If a childcare institution makes sufficient efforts, a parent committee should not be required. Why doesn't the Minister choose to do this at all childcare establishments? A parent committee is not an end in itself, but a means of getting parents involved. You might be able to organize that parent involvement in other ways. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u21	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he wants a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their support for this bill, which comes from a motion some time ago. That motion was adopted unanimously, and today I also have the unanimous support for the basis of the legislative proposal. For this reason, the discussion will focus on the elements of the legislative proposal, for which there is no unanimous support. It's okay to establish this. The new way of dealing with disputes could prove to be one of the most important elements of the legislative proposal. The fact that there is clarity about this, that it is binding, that everyone participates and that all parents will be able to find their way at some point will actually help to improve the position of parents. I agree with all those speakers who have stressed this in the various debates, sometimes with me and sometimes with my predecessors. It's good for child care that parents are involved. It's good for the quality and it's good for the kids themselves. Since the law is in itself uncontested, I will focus on the questions and the remaining points of discussion. I think the Chamber would prefer that, too. I will begin with the discussion on the right to advice on the price. Why do I propose to delete that right of advice? In my view, the obligations we impose in a legislative proposal on the entrepreneurs who do the work should always be in balance. If we make it possible to make use of the right to advice on quality, we really will respond to parents' wishes and concerns. We also make it possible, if possible, to improve the quality by providing parental participation. On the other hand, I believe that it will be much less frequent to avoid an improvement in the price, by allowing parents to take advantage of a right of advice on the price. It is also one of the first elements to emerge from the tailor-made approach supported by the Chamber in order to reduce the regulatory burden in childcare. The obligation to talk to parent committees about the price will hardly in practice lead to a change. This price is mainly based on personnel costs. All in all, entrepreneurs experience it as excessive regulatory pressure. In addition, this does not in fact provide such a strong quality guarantee. Some here say: price and quality always have to do with each other, don't they? That's for sure. Where the right of advice on quality also concerns the price, the price will of course be dealt with. When we talk about the number of leaders, this right of advice will also extend to and affect the price. An entrepreneur can bring that in. There are also elements of the quality policy that have nothing to do with the price. How's a leader doing? How is leadership given? What is going on with the educational climate in a particular group? In my view, these are very important questions. If the price is directly related to the quality, it has something to do with that. An advisory right to the price, with the exception of quality, could be deleted in my view. As a result, we also keep an eye on the balance for entrepreneurs. They will, after all, be given more obligations as a result of this legislative proposal. Finally, this also meets the wishes of parents. I can count fairly well and I have seen that there seems to be quite a lot of support for the amendment. However, I think it is important to defend the legislative proposal as it stands today in the Chamber and to reconsider it for Members. I now come to the issue of the obligation to provide an alternative to the parent committee in cases where there is no parent committee and there are less than 50 children. I admit immediately that that border is arbitrary. These kinds of boundaries are, of course, always arbitrary. You can set that limit at 40, 50 or 60, but at 41 or 61 there will of course be a difference. We do think it's a reasonable limit. The legislative proposal has not just been drafted, because it has been drawn up in extensive consultation with the industry, the parents' representatives and everyone else who is further involved. I have seen many times that you agree on the main lines and that the lobby then continues to shift the accents in that agreed outline package. That's what I see happening here with the letters from BOinK. BOinK is in his right, but it is certainly not the case that BOinK was not involved in the drafting of the bill and the balance sheet. If you have to take an arbitrary line, we think 50 in itself is reasonable. It is important, however, that the commitment of effort should be something. We have not quite defined the commitment in legal texts. It is precisely a question of real efforts to involve parents. However, a number of examples have been developed in the explanatory memorandum. They can shape the implementation of the effort obligation. The simplest thing is a parenting committee; then you're always right. If that is not possible, all kinds of alternatives are conceivable. How does it work if it is not satisfactory or if it is insufficient? That's when the supervisor comes into play. The GGD ensures compliance with the law. He can determine independently that there are fewer than 50 children, that there is no parent committee and that the alternative offered does not like it. Under the new dispute settlement, parents can complain about this. They will then be given a binding ruling. They can say: we are emailed twice a year, it is nothing and an alternative to the fact that there is no parent committee has not been found in a good way. They can therefore lodge a complaint which is examined. I think it is appropriate to deal with the sector where, especially in the case of smaller nurseries, you do not want to impose too much on the way in which the obligations are met, but you put the risk of fulfilling the obligations. It also fits in with thinking about the new supervision. You mostly want what you want in practice to happen. You don't want to achieve all of this through ticking lists, which sometimes offer a false safety or a false security for the quality you're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u23	I can understand the Minister's explanation. In the first term I indicated that I am still struggling with the number of 50 and the cut. The Minister addressed the fact that there is an opportunity for parents to raise their finger if they think the alternative is too weak. But what about the burden of proof that real attempts have been made to form a parent committee? How is it ensured that this effort is actually made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u24	I didn't prescribe how to do that. That will have to show the child care provider to the supervisor. If an inspection is carried out, he must show how he has made the effort and how he has completed a possible alternative. If that's not enough... Risk-driven monitoring is not carried out everywhere every day. If a parent is dissatisfied, he can file a complaint. Then you get to the Disputes Committee, which makes binding rulings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u25	The Minister has already taken a somewhat procedural approach to BOinK's letter, but not its content. Apart from the question of who is or is not involved in the preliminaries: the letter is rather sharp. The concern was expressed that the number of parent committees is falling further as a result of this part of the law. In all the debates we have had on this issue, we wanted to strengthen their position in order to get more parent committees. Can I conclude from the Minister's reply that he has absolutely no concern that the number of parent committees in childcare is falling as a result of this part of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u26	I do think it's very different. I rather think that the number will increase, because there is more for parents to get. They can talk about the quality of their children's care, in combination with the pedigree that depends on the outcome of this debate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then it's worth joining. It is precisely in the small daycare centres that there is now no parent committee, despite the obligations of the law. The daycare centres that will soon be working without a parent's committee must show that they are making the effort to involve parents. I think the risk to them will be greater than with a ticking list. Thus, even in cases where there is no parent committee, there will have to be involved parents. That's what we're talking about. Mr Mulder said that we must be concerned with the objectives, not the means. That's how I see this. You want parents in child care to be involved in the care of their children. That is a much more direct tool to keep quality high than through inspections alone. It keeps the entrepreneurs sharp. You also see a lot more when you talk about it with parents in a good way. Instead of finding it cramped on a form that sometimes just can't be done, it becomes worth talking to for parent committees in the new system. So I don't think there's going to be much less; rather more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u27	There's still a long way to go on the way to more parent committees. I will probably just come up with a motion in the second term to check how the number of parent committees is going, not out of mistrust, but because it's just good to keep the facts well in mind in the coming years. The other side is: how are we going to deal with an entrepreneur with 60 children?I understand that every border is arbitrary who really did his stinking best but didn't succeed, despite all his good intentions. I can't imagine it, but it happens. How does the bill provide for that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u28	The obligation now exists must be fulfilled. Next, a supervisor should always look at the grounds on which someone does not comply with the rules. This can also be reflected in enforcement. I would not dare now to open the door for him to come up with an alternative. The problem with arbitrary boundaries is, that with 50 children there are three parents to be found. BOinK writes that this can also be done with a smaller group, and in many cases it is also so.. but you can also have to deal with a much larger group where that is very difficult. Once again, this proposal has been drawn up in close consultation with both parents and industry. Apparently, the industry has found this feasible. You can move both ways. Mulder raises the question here: shouldn't you also offer that space for larger daycare centers? The SP, Mrs Kooiman, says through an amendment: lower the limit now. I think we have found a balance that is workable in practice. That's what the childcare industry thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u29	I understand. My question is also not based on the idea of changing the number now. It is an obligation, not a misunderstanding, but also in the supervision the mind continues to play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u30	Sure. In view of the way in which I intend to develop this monitoring tool, this new monitoring should be based much more on actual quality, and therefore on the efforts that are being made, rather than on a tick-off list. In that light, it fits much more to see what goal you want to achieve; you want parents to be involved. However, you still have to impose a number of legal obligations. We shouldn't be naive about that. These obligations are always intended for the less good entrepreneurs. They're gonna need that, too. I am therefore very committed to the fact that this obligation is from 50. However, a good supervisor will take into account the circumstances of the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u31	I'm gonna keep going at this point. It is not quite clear to me on a number of points. I get it very well if childcare organisations with less than 50 really do not manage to set up a parent committee. Then you have to look carefully at filling out the alternative to achieve the goal. I get that. However, we all want this legislative proposal to ensure that parents and parent committees simply have control over the quality of childcare. I still haven't quite figured out what that's gonna look like for those 50-min child locations. Quite specifically: what can the ggd test for when an organisation has really tried? That's gonna bother me for a while. The second point is: what does such a parental consultation look like? If we do a normal survey...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u32	That's a lot of questions. Maybe we should give the minister a chance to answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u33	We have tried to outline this in the explanatory memorandum, but every example raises a follow-up question. If it really is not possible to arrange a parent committee for a small location, I will take the example of one childcare institution with two or three small locations................................................................................................................................................................................. That might not be a separate parenting committee per small location. If someone has first made the effort to form a parent committee, then in that way shape the alternative and that quality is also right, then I do not know why we should not be satisfied with it. Only, we have chosen not to prescribe its form entirely, because apparently the desired form is difficult and an alternative will have to be sought in any case. An entrepreneur must therefore be able to demonstrate that he has made sufficient efforts to form a parent committee first and then to form a credible alternative. I'm sure we can come up with alternatives that we can't think of here yet. For us, the form is also much less important than the actual participation and involvement of parents in their daycare. I want to look at the questions about the relationship between parents, the GGD, the supervisor. The GGD will inspect unexpectedly. The education inspection is the second-line inspector, who has to check whether the monitoring system as such is working properly and whether it is being properly enforced. So the education inspection doesn't crash in, but the GGD does. That is more and more risk-driven, but that is what is happening. We'll see to that. I believe that the proposal that parent committees are now actually involved in the supervisory board's assessment is a good thing. After all, the institution is obliged to discuss the final inspection report with the parent committee. It's really weird that it hasn't. It is also strange that it is necessary, but it is an important improvement, because then parents can ask difficult follow-up questions, for example: how did this happen? That can have a huge effect. Moreover, the discussion between the institution and the parent committee is given a central place. It is in line with the new supervision of childcare, where supervisors and institutions have to engage in dialogue on quality. At the same time, it can reinforce and complement each other. As a result, the Parents' Committee now has a much stronger role to play in the supervision of childcare. Moreover, a supervisor can always enter into a conversation with the parent committee if there is reason to do so and vice versa. So one can look each other up. The only thing we have not done is to legally guarantee the right to hear or speak after supervision, after the publication of an inspection report. I don't think that's necessary either. If that were to happen, I would not know what would stand in the way of it. If you guarantee that as a legal right, it carries the risk that it could function as a kind of appeal body or a follow-up body. You can see that parents are solidarizing with the entrepreneur whose nursery they take their children to. They will then be involved in the preparation of the inspection report, which, for example, states: no, there is not at all the agreed number of leaders on the group. This leads to a critical inspection report and perhaps also sanctions. If you would then give a legal follow-up to it, then the risk would be that parents would be in a position to stand up on behalf of the entrepreneur, while the supervisor would then have to have the role of independent party. He heard the parents. The institution is obliged to talk to the parents about the report. That is very important for the follow-up, but he has given his judgment and that stands for it. Therefore, I believe that there is sufficient contact between GGD and parent committees in the law, that there is no reason to think that there is no explanation if there is a need, as Mr Heerma said in his term, but that a specific legal right would be overshooting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u34	I can follow much of the Minister's speech. Yet, when you go back to the formation of this motion and the argument that was exchanged in that debate, you see that it was specifically about strengthening the position of parents vis-à-vis both and about the cleansing effect that it had, also towards the GGD. In some cases, it is not even a problem if a parent committee consolidates with an entrepreneur. If that conversation with the GGD takes place, the GGD can explain why it is indeed on the agenda. This in turn leads to a higher level of knowledge among parents and perhaps a more critical look at an entrepreneur if necessary. But it can also lead parents at the GD to indicate that they really see things differently, which may lead to a rethink of the GD. I am not advocating a legal right or some kind of appeal body through the parents. If the Minister states that he does not want to regulate that in the law, I would like to go along with that, but I still have the concern that the GGD does not engage in that conversation, while the Parents' Committee asks. The G.D.D. doesn't have to do that either. We all want parent committees to be active. So how do we ensure that the GGD actually engages in the conversation when a parent committee asks for it? Perhaps the Minister could enter into a discussion with the GGD, in order to achieve, to argue that he would take it seriously. In this way, we are not putting that into the law, but we are making the position of the parent committees even stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u35	I think the big profit compared to the GGD is in that portal, by looking at what parents themselves do, knowing that an institution, together with the parent committee, will continue with such an inspection report. If a GGD in a kind of splendid isolation would not want to explain how it comes to its judgments and thus avoid the discussion with the parent committees, then I agree with Mr Heerma that that would not be reasonable. Neither of us is talking about a kind of conversational circuit in which we talk again, but about a parent committee that just wants to have more explanation about it. I can only imagine that, if this happens in practice, the GDPR can be called upon. I am quite willing to do so, but in practice I do not expect this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u36	The reason I do have concerns about this is that, precisely in the opinion of the GGD on this legislation, there are concerns that this greater transparency, greater involvement of parents, will lead to more objections and more hassle for municipalities; that's pretty much what it says. That may be a side effect of a stronger position of parents, but that is what we want with each other if there is reason to do so. I therefore believe that the Minister almost promised it. I do not want the Minister to do anything if these signals continue to come; I would prefer the Minister to point to the GGD already: listen, if parent committees request that, then it would be a good thing if the GGD were to take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u37	Let us be even sharper then. The fact that the institution raises objections and appeals is fine at the moment when it feels that it is being treated unfairly. I do not think that this is a task for parents in relation to an inspection report aimed at the institution. Nor does Mr Heerma mean it that way. He talks about explanations, dialogue and so on. I think that a mature, professional, modern supervisor can have no objection to that. If it is, it's cold feet. A supervisor may object to the first. I appreciate that Mr Heerma does not insist on being incorporated into the law. Shall I just promise that I will discuss this subject with GGD Nederland as such? They are in consultation with their supervisors, also for the major changes that are coming towards them. Should the problem indeed arise, I am also prepared to appeal to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u38	Because you have now had a debate on this, it is also part of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u39	They're all watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Heerma would like this to be reflected in the report of the discussion. Can you promise me that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u41	I'll discuss it with them and come back to that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u42	...if you've spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u43	There's a feedback after that call. In the second term, I will add a responsible deadline. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly asked how the training takes account of what parents see and wish for. That is an important subject. This in itself does not fit within the framework of this law or my portfolio, but it is something that social partners who share responsibility for their input into that training are working on. So I would like to promise that I will discuss this issue with them. I can very well imagine that, especially if we work with this for a while, knowledge will come from which you say: it should actually end up in that training. So that social partners can take it with them. A direct link is in any case not to be created in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u44	No, it doesn't have to be in the law. Please, let's not put everything into law. In the industry there are concerns about whether the important aspect of communicating with parents is sufficiently embedded in the training. I am fine with the Minister talking about this. I am not asking for laws, but it would be nice if the Minister could indicate whether he recognizes anything of my concern and considers it desirable as a direction. This can also be done in the second term. I believe that the communication of the teaching staff with parents is incredibly important in order to be able to do the job properly. There are concerns as to whether this is sufficiently embedded in the training. It does not have to be in the law, but if the Minister meant his commitment in that way, then I can spare him that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u45	That's what I meant. By the way, I have the impression that there are already major steps in this direction. The industry is also very aware that the transfer moments with the parents are very important, also to know what is going on with the child entrusted to your care. It is also good to reconnect what happened that day at the daycare center. So that is already part of the training, but I think that we are very aware that there is a possibility of profit. We agree on that. I do appreciate the development that the industry is already going through. More and more attention is being paid to that part of communication skills. I have been asked to check whether parent participation crèches are excluded from this. That is indeed the case. That's a separate category. The PVV has asked how much higher the costs will be due to the compulsory registration with the Disputes Committees. The costs remain broadly the same. The contributions from childcare institutions cover the structural costs of the dispute committees. We are talking about approximately €700,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mr Van Weyenberg has an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u47	It is very nice that it does not apply to parent participation crèches. My concern was in the timing between those two laws, one of which is still in consultation, because I did not see in the current law the legal article on the exception. How, then, is it legally guaranteed that this law will not apply unintentionally to those crèches? When we read this bill, we found the space that does not apply and does not fit, namely not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u48	I will certainly check whether we have a fine test answer to this in the second period, but the opc's of course do not yet exist in the law. There is no such problem. We are still in a situation of tolerance that is going to end with the new law, so this does not seem to me to be the biggest problem of parental participation crèches. The PVV has asked questions about the vve. Is there not unfair competition? No, we don't. Pre-school and early-school education is also provided within childcare. This is a specific target group, namely children at risk of language disadvantage. The grants focus in particular on the quality of the staff. Grants are also provided within regular childcare. A crusade against subsidies should therefore not be limited to the vve. Support is also provided in childcare to improve the quality of staff. Even the child care allowance, if you really want to be angry, you could call it a form of subsidy to parents. Is there sufficient reception in the shrinking regions? The choice is certainly much smaller in shrinking regions. There is also provision of childcare facilities in rural areas, but one will not always have the same choice as in densely populated areas. That's true. Figures from the CBS show that parents in the shrinking regions do have a choice. Then I agree with everyone who says that it is not a light decision to take your children off the nursery and to take them to another shelter because the price goes up. That's a tough decision. I think that the most important time of weighing in this respect is before children go to day care. Then all these arguments play a role and his parents are quite willing to make the choice to continue cycling or driving. When children sit on a nursery and one is more or less satisfied, a switch is often difficult. I now turn to the amendments, starting with the amendment to item No. 9, on lowering the border from 50 to 30 children. I have argued that, although I admit that these borders are always arbitrary, I still attach myself to the 50-year-old limit, also because it was created in consultation with the sector itself. For that reason, this is quite a real limit. Between 30 and 50 it is not always easy to fill a parent committee. The amendment in part No. 10 is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u49	So your opinion on the amendment to item No. 9 is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u50	Dissuade. The amendment in part No. 10 is about supervision. If the GGD had to inspect a quarter of all individual host parents each year, this would have a very heavy burden on the supervisory burden. There's no budget for that either. Moreover, it could lead to a misplaced focus on the supervisor. It is at the expense of supervision of daycare centres. In addition, the amendment does not recognise the role of the host parent agency responsible for quality and safety. Moreover, I do not think that this should be dealt with by definition in a legislative proposal on parental involvement. That's more of a subsidiary argument. I'm against it because it would put huge pressure on the supervisor. I am also against it because it wrongly moves the focus from daycare to host parents. I'm also against it because it denies the role of the host parents' agency. Subsidial, if all these arguments are unconvincing, I think this is a wrong law to settle. I therefore advise against the amendment. The Siderius amendment to point No. 8 is about the price. We just had that discussion. I believe that the price can also play a role in the new right to advice on quality, because the price is an integral part of quality. However, I do not think that a separate right of advice on price changes should be added in practice, and that could well be deleted. I therefore advise against the amendment, on the understanding that I saw that it seemed to have a great deal of support in the Chamber at least in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u51	This brought an end to the government's first term of office. I see we can proceed with the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr. Chairman. Then you've been gone so long and then you notice that there's still agreement on a number of things. One of these is that parents need to be strengthened in childcare. Sometimes I get homesick about the time I started in the Lower House, in the back of the benches as a policy officer. At that time, the VVD did not want market forces in child care at all. She even wanted child care to be free. Some kind of state skider shelter, you might call it. The SP even had to say at the time that you could ask for some responsibility from parents. It didn't have to be totally free, but let's keep it affordable, the SP said then. How different can the times be? The VVD makes child care unaffordable here, and I have to keep another story here. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr Mulder feels so challenged that he wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u54	That's what group chairman Van Aartsen wanted at the time. For punishment, we made him mayor of The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u55	I don't have it very often, but I have here, as a SP'er, the election program of the VVD. I was wondering if I could remember it right. Yeah, I had it memorized. I'm a little homesick at the time. When it comes to our amendment on the advisory right to price changes, I would not have expected this minister to promote market forces. I am very pleased that there are parties in the Chamber such as the Labour Party, the CDA, D66, with whom we are indeed a nice majority to settle this properly. So that's what we're gonna do. We will also amend the amendment to that effect. I come to the amendment on the 50 or 30 children and the alternative form of these parent committees. I hear the Minister say: I think, I think, that it will be all right in practice; those parent committees will not take away. The CDA indicated that as a concern, the parent committees will take off. BOinK reported that, too. I'm just inclined to follow BOinK. That's the parents, that's the practice. That is why I maintain my amendment. Now the Minister gave all the reasons why we should not increase the supervision of host parents. I think the safety of children is a great thing. We absolutely have to take care of that. If there is no budget, we can always arrange an income-dependent childcare allowance. That would be a nice cover. None of that would fit into this law either, so I just made a motion. We'll figure it out in a minute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present only 5% of the host parents have to be inspected annually by the GGD;]] [[noting that in an average sample a host parent is inspected once every 20 years and that these inspections are mainly carried out with new host parents;]] [[Whereas this reduces the level of supervision of parents who have been working as host parents for a longer period of time;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a proposal requiring municipalities to have at least 25% of the individual host parents inspected each year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman and Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34045-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u56	I thought my motion was even better prepared than my amendment. So I'm even more accommodating. Then I hope to return sometime... I can see Mr Mulder coming forward. Mr Mulder, I just hope to come back in three years and that you will stand here and say: yes, I want free childcare again. I'm sure we'll have a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u57	I have a bit of a problem with Mrs Kooiman's motion on the safety of host families. That is an extremely important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u59	We have a general meeting next week. My group would also like to raise this point. I regret that the Minister said that even though this is not really part of this legislative proposal. There is a great deal to be said about it. My request is that it should be extended, especially in the context of the general consultation, as to what is the best way to ensure the safety of children in host parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u60	As you know, I was informed this morning that I was allowed to do this bill. I would therefore like to propose to Mr Mulder that he sign the motion. Then that's how we arranged it. I have not tabled a motion with him before, and for this occasion I am happy to do so once. So let's get this over with. If the Minister says he has a new solution for the general discussion, I am fine with holding the motion. But I don't know if he's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answer in the first term. He explicitly addressed some of the concerns expressed here in the Chamber and made further commitments. I very much appreciate that he is going to have the conversation with GGD Nederland in order to take a benevolent attitude to the requests of the parent committees. However, I still doubt whether the GDPR will actually do so in practice. That is why I would very much like to look forward to the letter on this discussion containing the answer. I think that it is precisely the position of the parents, both towards the entrepreneur and towards the GGD, that can help. As far as the opinion on the price is concerned, the Minister has indeed counted well that there is a broad wish in the Chamber. I understand that there will be an amended amendment from the Labour Party and the SP. My group intends to support that amendment. The Minister was much more optimistic about the number of parent committees here in the debate than before in the written reply. In the written round, I asked whether it was not the intention of this bill that there should be more parent committees. What would happen if that didn't happen? The answer remained there on the plain: it was difficult to predict. I am concerned that the number is not going to increase, but is going to decrease. I think we should keep a finger on the wrist there. It was precisely intended to strengthen the position and involvement of parents. So I think it's a good thing we keep a finger on the wrist and see if that's the effect. If that is not the effect, perhaps we should start the debate again. That is why Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 will immediately table a motion which I will co-sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr. Chairman. Such a treatment is always very much about the things you still want to change. However, I would like to say once again at this point that this bill is taking some steps forward, which my group is very pleased with. Parents are given greater participation in quality. On the issue of disputes, we have a major improvement. I also find the greater role of the Parents' Committee in the inspection reports to be purely profit-making. It fits a line that has been deployed in this Chamber quite a few years ago, fortunately, and which now finds its place in this bill. When you talk about guarantees, about how to improve things that are not yet going well and about places where there are no parent committees and where parents still have too little say, I also realize that you are almost "unrighteous" to all those entrepreneurs, employees and childcare institutions that are doing all this well. I would like to emphasise that here. At the same time, I think it is important that we ensure this for those places where there are still problems. I also welcome the commitments made by the Minister, which Mr Heerma has just mentioned, regarding the discussion with the GGD. I also welcome the commitment to training and the attention given to the issue of educational staff being well equipped to conduct the conversation with parents. I am curious to see where this leads in terms of improvements in training and how the sector is already working on it. I have another motion, which Mr Heerma has already announced. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to monitor and inform the Court of Justice of developments in the number of parent committees on an annual basis following the entry into force of this bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34045-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u63	I assume, although I did not put that in the motion, that a good distinction is made between institutions with less than 50 children and institutions with more than 50 children. That limit is formally introduced with this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by noting that we are indeed taking a very important and good step with this law. It is a question of promoting the quality of teaching by strengthening the position of parents. It is also a question of controlling a sector which has an important social role and a public role. So we are very pleased with that. The PvdA Group raised a number of initial questions and concerns. Some of the Minister's reply was satisfactory. I'd like to remind you of a few points. I have to say that the PvdA Group, together with the SP, CDA and D66 groups, is looking at something else against the right of advice at a price. We believe that the strengthening of parental status through this amendment is completely complete. We shall therefore table this amendment in a modified form. Then I come to the development of alternative parental consultation. I understand that the Minister says that it is very difficult to frame from the loose wrist what alternative parental consultation is. I understand that very well, but at the same time I can already see that every child care organisation is going to come up with and find out for itself. When you talk about regulatory pressure and bureaucracy, I see a much greater burden. I therefore come with a motion, which is good for entrepreneurs, to develop good alternative parental consultation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with experts and the sector, to develop suitable forms of alternative parental consultation and to bring them to the attention of the sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yücel, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34045-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u65	The childcare institutions themselves, with their entrepreneurial spirit and creativity, want to see how they regulate parental involvement. Why do you want to make childcare institutions happy with this motion against their will?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u66	I don't think it's against their will. In my opinion, all entrepreneurs also want to be able to do more easily, not to invent the wheel every time and, above all, to be supported by the local government and sometimes also by the national government. We even have a Minister of Economic Affairs to make business easy. That's what we're all here for. That seems to me to be a good thing, even for the entrepreneurs themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u68	I filed my motion and made my point. I'm closing up. We are very pleased with this bill, which has been reinforced in a number of respects by a number of additions. We think this is an important step and a good development towards good and safe care for our youngest children. That's what we're all for in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u69	Then I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder. No, he's already said everything he wants to say about this bill. Then there is an end to the second term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister is already jumping up and indicating that he can respond immediately to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr. Chairman. I would be sorry if we had to wait three years for Mrs Kooiman to speak again in this Chamber, because I enjoyed her pleasant style of debate very much. I thought it was special that she was homesick about the time when the VVD was still left and the SP was still right. I haven't been through that time so consciously, but sometimes you have weird, exotic moments. Unfortunately, this will not lead to a positive assessment of the Kooiman/Siderius motion in part No. 11. I have just given the reasons for this: the disruption of supervision, the lack of coverage, the lack of recognition of the role of host parents, and the wrong point in this law. I'm deceiving that motion. I can be even more precise with Mr Heerma. In the short term, I will bring the dialogue between supervisor and parent committee to the attention of GGD Nederland. I will also spread that message to the GGD regions, for example through the meetings of executives. I will let the Chamber know in the second quarter how that message has been brought to the attention and how it has fallen with the GGDs. Then we've managed that a little more precisely. In the motion of Members Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma in part No. 13 is asked to monitor the development of the number of parent committees. I think there will be more, but the objective of the law is not in itself that there will be as many parent committees as possible. The objective is to achieve good quality parental involvement. Middle and purpose should not be confused. If the number of parent committees falls rapidly, I think it would be very worthwhile to debate this, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide on that motion. I think it's okay to follow that. The motion by the PvdA asks the government to develop guidelines for the sector on how the alternatives could take shape. I don't see that as an obligation to use that handle, but as a hand-off. I see all kinds of people who can know about it now, nodding. In that case, I will leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber, because I can imagine that it could be useful. If you make people happy who ask for it, then I don't think the VVD will be against it either. I shall, of course, wait for the vote to take place in suspense. Finally, the opc's. I have now received a note stating that my answer appears to be correct in the first period. Sometimes you get so lucky in a debate. At least I didn't want to remember this. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, this will enable me to conclude my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u71	Yes, I don't see any more Members asking to speak, so I assume they agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-10.u72	The vote on the bill, the amendments and the motions will take place next Tuesday afternoon.
