ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the General European Reviews last week, both the government and the majority in the Chamber, including the CDA, expressed their support for the importance of maintaining the free movement of workers in the European Union, one of the basic principles of the process of European integration. In our view, it is very important to maintain the rights of both immigrant workers and workers already present in a particular country. In this context, we support the cabinet's objectives of combating underpayment, unfair competition and bogus structures. This does not mean that we will blindly support every cabinet proposal. That is why this afternoon we are dealing with the bill of law dealing with bogus constructions, but not the bill to make the minimum wage applicable to contract contracts (ovos). Policies at European and national level are needed to combat labour market abuses. In Europe, this is about the Detachment Directive and the Enforcement Directive. The Minister's idea of taking steps in the right direction during the Dutch Presidency can count on our support. This applies in particular to the more equalisation of chain liability systems. The present bill extends the chain liability to the clients and other links in the process, also to sectors outside the construction sector. We still have questions about the consequences of the non-disputable behaviour of employers or clients. As we have joined the Labour Party in the report on this point, we await Mrs Sent's contribution. As stated in the report, we are not yet sure that the ban on keeping the care premium and housing costs at the minimum wage is a good idea. The government defends this ban with the wish that the workers concerned should be free to have their net minimum wage. In our opinion, the ban could reduce the interest of bona fide employers in ensuring good health insurance and good housing. At the same time, it seems to us that a ban on deductions will make it more difficult for both trade unions and the inspection to determine what is really happening in this area. Before 1 June, the government will make a final statement, but we thought it appropriate to raise our concerns here this afternoon. Letter of amendment also solved a problem in the transition fee for seasonal workers. Many parties have expressed their satisfaction with this solution. This is not the case with the LTO. Questions from us in the report on this point have, in our view, been answered with satisfaction. We also understand the fact that the flexibility to do something about this has ended in the House of Representatives. However, we would like to ask the Minister whether he sees the possibility of seeking a separate solution by collective agreement for seasonal work in the agricultural sector as well. We await with interest the answer to this question from us and the questions of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. The labour market of the twenty-first century is characterised by strong dynamism and an ageing retirement date. People will work longer and change jobs more often. This calls for a solid foundation of strong and solid employment relationships, in which employers and employees are willing to invest in each other. The social agreement and the resulting Work and Security Act are an important step towards a fairer labour market. People with flexible contracts get more security and workers get better protection. For employers, it becomes more attractive to employ someone on a permanent basis, partly because the right to resign becomes faster, simpler and fairer. Today we are discussing a next step towards fair work against decent working conditions: the Law approach to bogus constructions. It contains a number of concrete measures to combat abuses. For example, the powers of the inspection are extended, the salary should no longer be paid "cash" as a result of which control was impossible and the "calculation" of all kinds of often vague payments and allowances with the salary is no longer allowed. As a result, an employee often had much less than the statutory minimum wage. The present bill also introduces an extensive chain liability. This makes it easier for complex constructions, often involving a chain of companies, to appeal to more links than just the direct employer. Finally, companies that deliberately go in error are made known by name and by name. The PvdA supports the government's vigorous approach to exploitation, unfair competition and labour market displacement. We welcome the government's commitment to enforcement, information and international agreements. We welcome the increase in the number of labour inspectors, the strengthening of the approach of malicious employment agencies (AMU) and closer cooperation between inspection and sectors. We also see the legislative proposal before us as a further necessary step against abuses. In order to ensure that this is actually a step in the right direction, I would like to put a number of questions to the Minister. A potential bottleneck is the deadline within which the legislative proposal can enter into force. The proposed date for the adoption of the present legislative proposal is 1 July. In my group's view, this does not allow enough time for sectors to develop a sectoral label. The Minister considers that such a mark is a "nice to have" and not a "need to have." However, the absence of such a mark entails additional administrative burdens during the interim period. In addition, the labels contribute to legal certainty and enforcement. In our view, this should be taken very seriously into account when the present legislative proposal comes into force. We would like to ask the Minister whether he shares this view with us and what consequences he is prepared to draw. During the discussion of the present bill in the House of Representatives, it was also pointed out the possible consequences of the fact that compensations and deductions on wages are not allowed as a result of the present bill. Think about the health insurance of migrant workers. For example, the number of uninsured, uninsured and wrongly insured persons within the group of migrant workers could increase as a result of the present legislative proposal. Or think of compliance with legislation in the area of working and living. For example, less transparency of the payment of housing costs by the temporary worker could impede this compliance. The Minister has promised the House of Representatives to present before 1 June next the pros and cons of allowing deductions from the statutory minimum wage on the basis of the employee's written authorisation to pay for the employee's housing and health insurance obligations. The Minister will also send this letter to our Chamber. Can he promise us that it will reach us before the expected vote on the proposal before us on 2 June? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA would like to ask attention for constructions to escape the Wet approach fakes constructions. For example, there is an exception to the obligation to pay wages in the case of home services on the basis of a contract of employment. This is covered by the Home Services Scheme, in which the health care provider is less entitled while the client does not have to pay contributions and taxes. Isn't there even more danger of a false construction here? After all, it may be asked whether home care institutions or other mediation bodies do not normally carry out so many employers' tasks that they and not the care provider should be regarded as employers. We would like to hear an assessment from the Minister and hear his intentions in this area. There is also an exception for transport and forwarding agreements. After all, transport of persons and goods is excluded by law from the contract of employment and transport is not covered by the contract of employment. For the time being, therefore, chain liability does not apply to transport and forwarding agreements. Does the Minister consider this desirable? Admittedly, given the specific nature of such agreements and the circumstances in which employees operate in these chains, it would not be easy in practice for workers to enforce their rights. Nevertheless, we ask the Minister to consider whether such agreements can also fall within the scope of chain liability for wages. The Government considers that the infringement of the right to respect for privacy is justified by the importance of disclosure, as provided for in Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. After all, achieving transparency always requires the disclosure of documents. The Minister states in the reply that interference in privacy will always be taken into account in the choices to be made in the lower regulation. But what if the desired openness can only be created with unwanted interference? In the opinion of my group, this needs to be clarified. We would like to invite the Minister to do so during this plenary debate. Nor should the situation in the countries around us remain unspoken as to how to deal with bogus structures. For example, the European Enforcement Directive is an important step to prevent and tackle bogus structures at EU level. In addition, the government is seeking to amend the Detachment Directive, the Minister writes in the reply. This Directive only guarantees the minimum working conditions for workers posted from another Member State, but not social security and pensions, for example. The result is a difference in working conditions between employees employed by Dutch employers and workers posted abroad who work for Dutch employers. The Minister states in the reply that this difference in working conditions leads to an undesirable form of competition on working conditions. What is he doing at European level to counter this? We would like to hear this from the Minister. In conclusion, I would like to express the hope that the legislative proposal which regulates the application of the minimum statutory minimum wage and the minimum holiday allowance will also be adopted by the Chamber for persons who work against remuneration on the basis of a contract of employment. With the government, the PvdA Group considers it unacceptable for the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act to be bypassed by those who work under similar conditions on the basis of a contract of employment. With the government, my group considers it important to strengthen the position of vulnerable contractors by tackling improper use of the contract of contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u4	I was concerned for a moment, but the bill that Mrs Sent now adopts is not on the agenda today. So this is a preview of Mrs. Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u5	I think it is important to place legislative proposals in a broader perspective. That's part of our task as First Chamber. For this reason, the plenary debate is an opportunity to discuss this bill briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u6	I'll do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u7	I'm looking forward to it. The above-mentioned legislative proposal is an important step in this direction. However, we were not concerned about the legislative proposal, about the relationship with other legislation, about the group covered by the bill, about the numbers involved, about the financial resources needed, about the enforcement of the bill and about additional possibilities. In his oral response and written response, the Minister took our concerns into account convincingly. The PvdA Group therefore believes that extending the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act as it has been in the past and will soon be in front of us is an important additional step in dealing with bogus constructions. Finally, I would like to express the hope that the government will address the tax incentives that encourage bogus self-employment. The PvdA represents a fair and balanced tax treatment of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed. Account should be taken of the risks incurred by entrepreneurs and the costs of insurance for illness and old age. On the other hand, false self-employment must be avoided and it must be avoided that purely tax-driven "entrepreneurship" undermines the basis of our social security. The choice between wage or self-employment should be a real choice. Does the Minister agree with us? If so, what initiatives does this lead to on its part and on the part of the government? After these closing words, I look forward with my group to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today is the last normal meeting of the Chamber in its current composition. Today is also the last time that I, as a senator on behalf of my group, will be allowed to speak in this beautiful plenary. I do that, even though it was my choice not to return, with some melancholy. We do know in the Chamber an inaugural speech here called "maiden speech" but not a farewell speech. I consider my contribution today to be my farewell. A "reason" is too much to say. It's a farewell word that, like my maiden speech, is about a topic in the field of social affairs. The Law approach, which we are dealing with today, contains no description of what a dummy construction is. The Minister has previously described a false construction as "a construction where the factual situation differs from the situation as it is previewed." The aim of phony constructions is to circumvent laws and regulations in the areas of working conditions, social insurance, pensions and tax legislation. The consequences are undesirable for employees, for bona fide employers who face unfair competition and for the public authorities, who miss contributions and taxes. The Fake Structures Act aims to combat exploitation, unfair competition and displacement in the labour market, as a result, by combating the payment of workers under the minimum wage or under the collective wage. No one can argue with that. The VVD Group therefore agrees with a number of measures contained in the legislative proposal, such as the obligation to pay the minimum wage due in a fair manner and to provide transparent pay slips. These measures have the side-effect of facilitating control and enabling the exchange of information between inspection and private law enforcement, the collective agreement parties. The obligation to pay the minimum wage in full and not to make deductions below the minimum wage is also intended to facilitate enforcement. The VVD considers the implementation and enforcement of legislation to be very important and therefore understands this ban, as far as practical nonsensical deductions are concerned. However, the VVD Group is concerned that the child is being thrown away with the bath water in terms of deductions from the healthcare premiums. In any case, is default lurking, but is there also the risk that people will not be insured or will no longer be insured under the Health Insurance Act? We also share the concerns of the temporary agency sector with regard to the housing of migrant workers. We must not forget that, fortunately, there are many well-intentioned employers who offer good housing to their temporary workers, but who are now considering stopping it because they do not want and can run the risk of debtors. These points were also raised in the House of Representatives, but the Minister did not wish to comment on an amendment by the SGP on this subject. We would therefore like to hear from the Minister what solutions he sees in the event that care and housing concerns turn out to be justified in the future, otherwise others will bear these costs. Or does he come with an AMvB before 1 June, as he promised, but he didn't know what he wanted to do about it until recently? In addition to AMvBs that contain definitions that should have been in the law and that introduce something new instead of drafting the law, as is the case with the Act responsible growth dairy farming and the Animal Law, there is now a new phenomenon: an empty AMvB, where the First Chamber on the day of treatment and a month before the government intended entry into force of the law does not know what is in it. The retention ban will enter into force on 1 January 2016, while the Minister intends to introduce the law on 1 July. In the reply to my group's questions on this matter, the Minister said that employers and employees should be given some time to settle existing commitments in a different way. My group understands this. In our opinion, however, this also applies to agreements that clients and contractors have to make in order to achieve non-disputability and to set up the administration to keep up with all these agreements. Why is time given for one obligation and not for the other? Wouldn't this mean that it would be better if the entire law entered into force on 1 January 2016? The core of the law is chain liability, also the most difficult part of this law because it is rather complicated. The Minister hopes, above all, that preventive action will be taken. Let's hope he's right about that. A corrective effect, in so far as it depends on ordinary workers, is not to be expected, especially when it comes to foreign workers. What brave employee stands up to resist the fear of "for you ten others" and even with the support of the unions might win this battle but lose the war by losing his job and not being hired for another job? The foreign workers, if they already know that they are underpaid according to Dutch standards, are satisfied because they always earn even more than in their home country. We would like to hear the Minister's views. The chain liability implies that, if work is performed in the service of an employer, the employer and his client are jointly and severally liable for the payment of the wage due to the employee in order to perform a contract of employment or an agreement of employment acceptance. It therefore concerns at least a triangular relationship between the employee, his employer and his client. The employee may jointly and severally hold the client liable at the same time as his employer if he does not receive the remuneration due.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Clients further on in the chain can then be held temporarily liable if the claim fails. This brings me straight to a key point of the law, namely that it concerns employees, while my group still has the impression that the biggest phony structures that are working with bogus self-employed people are being used. In the oral consultation we had with the Minister on 28 April, I asked, on behalf of the VVD Group, whether a bogus self-employed person could benefit from the present law if he considered that he was not actually an independent worker but an employee. So, in addition to the person he works for, can he actually hold his employer liable to the client/contractor of his employer? The Minister replied in the affirmative. The preventive effect of the law is, according to the minister, that the clients in the chain are going to pay their contractors underpaid by using false constructions. Chain liability does not apply if a genuinely independent activity is carried out at the bottom of a chain. That's the problem I'm stuck with. How can the client/contractor verify whether the person at the bottom of the chain is a genuine self-employed person or a false self-employed person? The same applies to the inspection SZW, which must enforce the law. In the consultations mentioned above, the Minister referred to the letter of 20 April from State Secretary Wiebes to the House of Representatives. In it, the Secretary of State outlines how we are moving towards a system using a model agreement that makes it clear whether there is independence. The Minister apologized at the time, referring to the letter, because the information was very recent. I read the letter. Instead of the BGL web module, there will be model agreements that the Tax Administration will review solely on the payroll tax obligation and on nothing else. Such an agreement cannot be read out whether the person carrying out the work is an entrepreneur. How can a client in the chain or the principal client who wishes to comply with the law and the Inspection SZW soon, without a VAR or BGL web module, determine who is employed in the framework of a profession or business, thus as a self-employed person, and therefore falls outside the scope of the WAS and the WML? Has there been coordination with the Ministry of Finance on the relationship between the model agreement and minimum wage legislation c.q. de WAS? This needs to be clarified before entry into force. For this reason, too, my group believes that the law should enter into force from 1 January instead of 1 July. As far as we are concerned, the article on the transition fee may enter into force on 1 July, subject to Article XII. The Minister also talks repeatedly about abuses in the transport sector. Does the Minister agree with the VVD Group that if a carrier subcontracts work to another carrier, because, for example, he does not have cars and drivers at his disposal at that time, the chain liability does not apply? The work of the drivers is not carried out in order to implement an agreement of adoption of work..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Does the Minister agree with this conclusion? The same applies, according to the VVD Group, if the principal contractor is a shipper who concludes a transport contract with a carrier. The WAS does apply when a carrier instructs a temporary agency to provide drivers. That carrier shall conclude a contract of employment with the temporary agency covered by Article 616a et seq. Last week, the pre-opinions of the Dutch Lawyers Association exploded on the mat with the subject of "quality as a choice" in legislation, among other things. The preadvisor notes that questions are still being asked in plenary both in the Lower House and in the First Chamber, despite written preparatory rounds, and that the questioning does not take place in the run-up to a position. There is therefore, he concludes, little interaction and dialogue between the government and the First Chamber. Answers from the government would also show that this is not a debate or dialogue, but rather a question answer, the pre-advisor said. When I first came to this Chamber in 1999, my teachers in the group taught me that I had to ask questions and not to speak, which I did at first, because ministers would think: that is easy, I do not have to respond to them. Times change and we with them. However, I did ask questions today. I didn't think it was the time to change the strategy in my last contribution. Nevertheless, in response to my questions, I hope to have a dialogue with the Minister, because we agree that there is a problem that needs to be resolved and that there is a difference of opinion as to whether the purpose of the law is achieved in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an important law, a law that can provide better protection for workers from exploitation. GroenLinks is a supporter of the free movement of workers and self-employed workers, but it also includes taking responsibility for the employment status of EU citizens from another Member State who come to work here. If you work in another country, don't speak the language and don't know the roads and your rights, you're more susceptible to exploitation. That's what it turns out to be every time. My group therefore welcomes the law that makes it easier for those responsible for exploitation to be dealt with. There is another reason to welcome the approach to bogus constructions, which relates to the position of our own workers and job seekers. Allowing work at a lower wage and too long working days inevitably poses a threat to residents in the Netherlands, who become more expensive and unattractive. While they are working against the standards we have agreed in the Netherlands through the statutory minimum wage and through the collective agreement, they face unfair competition. That has everything to do with the lack of enforcement. Both groups of jobseekers and workers can thus benefit from this law, which makes it easier to tackle employers and clients who do not comply with the rules. Compliments, but also a few questions. A legal reality is not always a practical reality. We cannot assume that all the actors in the labour market and in the different sectors will automatically join this new legal reality. Effective enforcement is an indispensable and crucial condition for this to succeed. Does the Minister agree with this? The Minister has indicated that he must deal with the present formation, plus 35 additional FTEs. Does he really think this is enough? Can he back that up? It does not seem strong to me, and that is a concern for our group. If we have indeed made a paper tiger, we will see that that tiger may have less bite than we would like. It goes to the exploiters, who are already easily outsmarted by legal rules or enforcers, for a lot of money. That is why there is a demand for the escape possibilities of the possible perpetrators. Recently, ZEMBLA sent out an amazing documentary, showing that an Irish malicious company, which is targeted in many European countries and involved in procedures, has been organizing workers for large Dutch construction companies here for many years. The company includes large amounts for housing and transport, as well as social contributions, which are then not paid. The moment it gets too hot under the feet of this company, it ceases to exist and goes on under another name. Here too, the importance of effective enforcement plays a role. Of course, the law only works if smart constructions cannot circumvent chain liability. How can the Minister ensure that such phony structures are put to an end? Another point is the responsibility of workers. It's big in this bill. It is the employee who must hold his employer liable. With such great exploiters, fear is the great asset. Workers often do not dare to take steps because they know that they will lose their jobs immediately and will be without a salary in Portugal or Poland in no time. How does the government help to provide them with more protection when making them liable themselves? And is there any way for them to make use of a whistleblower scheme? Is the Labour Inspectorate guaranteed to work with anonymous reports on situations of abuse and exploitation? I would like to be given a more detailed explanation of the possibilities and support for workers in making use of their rights under this law. I come to the moral responsibility of the government. In the aforementioned broadcast of ZEMBLA it emerged that Rijkswaterstaat as a major client works indirectly with scavengers like Atlanco Rimec. To ask the Labour Inspectorate what it thinks or does with it, the short answer was: that is the Ministry's own responsibility. It scared the hell out of me. It should at least be the case that the government itself sets an example. Whether they are ministries or municipalities, they will have to make sure that the workers are treated according to the rules, even in the case of many layers below. Do these governments now have more control over this law or are they not called upon until the employees themselves take the step to hold them liable? What is the Minister doing to ensure that the government, whether through the Labour Inspectorate or not, is not jointly responsible at any level for such abuses? Municipalities play an important role in ensuring adequate housing. Clear standards and effective enforcement are crucial here. How does the Minister see his direction of these central governments in this? I also agree with Mrs Knippers' questions about the self-employed. How can a distinction be made between bogus self-employed and self-employed persons by principals or the Labour Inspectorate? I have one final question for clarification. Member States may decide, pursuant to Article 12 of Directive 2009/52, to publish a list of employers who are legal persons and who have been fined, in order to inform society by means of naming-and-saming and to make companies stand in the way of their reputation. The draft law before us is about administrative disclosure, but is it not as well qualified as a punitive sanction as provided for in the directive? It considers publication of punishment in connection with violation of the prohibition of illegal employment under increased circumstances to be a punishment. I would like an answer from the Minister. In short, we are pleased that this law is now before us and we hope for broad acceptance. We're not here with this yet. We will really have to pay attention to its effectiveness and therefore keep our finger on the wrist. We therefore hope to discuss this with the Minister more often. We support the Minister in taking further steps at EU level to make the system more closed by blocking detours. Another additional step, as far as we are concerned, is the adoption of the amended Law on minimum wage and minimum holiday allowance on specified contract contracts. I call on my colleagues in this Chamber to give their approval quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the fact that today we are discussing the draft law on bogus constructions. It is high time that we took a firm approach to false constructions. Unfortunately, legal agreements on remuneration, collective wage agreements and individual contracts are increasingly being circumvented by both legal and illegal bogus structures. This leads directly to repression, underpayment and exploitation, but also puts a negative pressure on working conditions in a wider context through unfair competition. It also leads to undermining of solidarity because bogus structures are used to pay lower taxes and less or no social contributions. The present bill is a not insignificant first step in dealing with bogus constructions. Hopefully we will be able to adopt the proposal quickly, because it will provide workers and trade unions with an important instrument to counter the evasion of remuneration agreements, even if we are far from there after the adoption of this bill. For three decades, in some countries for a little longer, the rights of workers and their organisations have been under increasing international pressure, including working conditions. Partly this is due to globalisation and technological developments, resulting in increased international competition and more and earlier relocation and outsourcing of work. But for a significant part, it is also due to changes in governments' policies around the world. The result is that the world labour income ratio has fallen systematically and income and wealth inequality has increased almost everywhere. In a recent study, the OECD considers this to be an important factor in the advance of flexible work, such as temporary contracts, temporary work and bogus self-employment. Labour markets that are too rigid hinder economic development, as OECD comparative studies teach us, but labour markets that are too flexible as well. That is perhaps a new insight for many. In the Netherlands, flexibility has gone to the estimation of my group. Since 1995, more than half of employment growth in OECD countries has been flexible, but where a number of countries have also been showing growth in fixed contracts since 2007, the Netherlands is mainly shifting from firm to flexible. There has been an increase in flex work and a decrease in regular fixed-term jobs. We know many, perhaps too many, flexible forms of work, and at least too much use of it. A limited flexible shell is good to respond more quickly to changing labour market conditions. In addition, if this shell is relatively small, flexible jobs provide new entrants with a more secure access to jobs. If, on the other hand, the flexible shell is large, too much pinewood and in our case more and more people are caught in this shell, with little contractual certainty and with often significantly worse working conditions. Isn't that how the Minister sees it? One of the reasons for the large size of this shell is not only the legitimate use of flexible constructions, but also their abuse. In this context, too, it is very important to tackle the use of bogus structures hard. There are many types of bogus structures: abuse of the broadcasting cao and evasion of the working conditions of the collective agreement applicable to the sector in which work is carried out, work via a paper foreign agency or a foreign daughter of a Dutch temporary agency, intended to pay only the minimum wage and social contributions at a much lower level in the Netherlands, abuse of extraterritorial charges, contracting and outsourcing arrangements to a temporary agency, or payrolling instead of hiring only the staff, in order to avoid collective bargaining, payrolling in general and loaning or chain constructions. Against such abuses and illegal evasion of the statutory minimum wage, this bill is a relevant instrument. The SP Group therefore very much welcomes it, although it might have been faster and more efficient to hold the final client liable immediately. Anyway, that's how it's gonna work eventually. However, it will not solve the problem, because the substance of the problem is not yet addressed by this proposal and not all the phony structures are being combated. At the heart of the matter, I will come back shortly, but first I will deal with perhaps the most important phony structure, namely false self-employment. This proposal completely ignores false self-employment. When can we expect further action from the Minister in this respect? This is not unimportant, because bogus self-employment is a significant part of the problem with bogus constructions and many people on a contract of employment are actually being put to work against a wage below the minimum wage. Non-respect of minimum legal standards certainly falls within the category of exploitation and combating it should be priority number one of each decent cabinet and associated coalition parties. However, when it was discussed here more than a year ago that employers wanted people to work under a contract of contract to respect the minimum statutory wage condition, the Minister was unable to count on support from his own coalition and the bill was retained at his request. He said he was going to work very hard on 1 April 2014 to have removed the objections to his approach to bogus self-employment in the treatment of the broader law approach in this Chamber. That's today. Do we have to note that he has not yet worked hard enough for it? What exactly did the Minister try to do? When three members of the coalition had a dissident position, Minister Schippers hit the turret with her fist on the table. Did this minister do the same when a whole group of dissidents turned out to be here last year? I'd like to hear how the Minister still wants to tackle the evasion of the statutory minimum wage through false self-employment. I shall return to the proposal that we are discussing today and to what I am missing in that. The rapid rise in flexible work in the Netherlands is not, as has often been argued, due to the rigidity of the fixed contract. That's not so bad. The cause is much more situated in the large difference in costs. Employers do not pay extra for the convenience of flexibility. No, there is a range of additional discounts, such as lower working conditions and deductions for bogus self-employed workers. It is precisely these cost advantages for employers that lead to the massive abuse through false constructions. The draft law before us does provide a basis for tackling underpayment of wages, but leaves the evasion of secondary working conditions out of the question. It also leaves the principle untouched that flex is in many cases cheaper than fixed. As long as it is possible to reduce costs on a large scale by using flex forces, in whatever form, instead of fixed forces, new fake structures will always be sought and found. Does the Minister see that, too? What possibilities does he see to further discourage phony constructions? Doesn't he agree that flexibility should have a price? My group is looking forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group is no less concerned than the Minister or the SP Group with the abuses in some sectors and with the defenseless position in which migrants in particular can reach the end of a chain. However, the D66 Group is not convinced that the Minister's legislative offensive, with the Wwz, the adaptation of the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act and this proposal, will bring the blessings he expects from it. The concept of the law as a work of art, a title of our regretful colleague Witteveen, is perhaps taken a little too literally. Because, and that is actually my main point, is legislation really the solution? Or, and now I agree with Mr Strik, is the maintenance of the existing situation not something that should be preferred? I mean the enforcement by the inspection, not the enforcement of abuses. The varied reality often suffers from the same distortions of the improvements that some legislative interventions bring about. This proposal also requires a small repair of the Wvz. That should give some thought. It is not for nothing that we, and colleagues on the other side, have been calling for more intensive inspections. There are abuses, but it also threatens to become a bit of a snake trying to bite its own tail. Because there is relatively little manpower, however, the inspection is strengthened, but too little...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result, you are again criticized for a bill such as this one. The Council of State's critical opinion was read. This in turn raises the question of proportionality in legislation. It's been Accountable Day in the House of Representatives. There's probably some new numbers out there. I would ask the Minister to share it with us so that we can take it into account in the debate. I refer to figures on inspections and their effects: what has been found? It has been mentioned before: today, in plenary session, the Minister, together with the present legislative proposal, wanted to continue the examination of the parked bill 33623. This concerns the amendment of the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act; I call it the 'wet-ovo'. We discussed this on 18 February 2014. In that debate, the choice was made whether the limit between the figure of the contract of employment and that of the contract of employment in the Civil Code, which is now clearly distinguished, should be clouded or improved or extended through the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act. My group found that objectionable. Nothing has really changed about the proposal since then. We would not have supported a resumption of this process. We do not think that is a good idea either, unlike a number of colleagues who have just said so. This is going to be an interesting debate in the future. When examining this proposal, I realized why the Minister would have liked to deal with these two legislative proposals in one move. They are written from the same emotion to correct abuses. It is also public intervention that, unlike often in the public sphere, with, for example, fines, chain liability or premiums, intervenes in private law relationships. In both relations, a "construct" is introduced which restricts the freedom of contract between the parties for the benefit of a good cause. However, there are differences. The good thing is that the proposal that we have put forward today is a chain of contracts in which the last employee in the chain can still find redress from the client for his wage claim. In the case of bogus structures, the power of inspection would be given to decide, in short, what the nature of the contractual relationship is. In the proposal we are discussing today, the employee is automatically granted a right that he may or may not be able to invoke. But at least that is a party decision and not an inspection decision. This is something I think is systematically better defended under civil law. The technique of this possibility of storytelling has been discussed in detail in the documents. I don't want to go too far on that right now. The core is that under Art. 616a BW, as proposed, if the work is performed in the service of the employer in carrying out a contract of employment or a contract of employment, the employer and his principal are jointly and severally liable for the payment of the wage due to the employee. Any clause to disable such a story on a contract party in the chain is in accordance with Art. 616f null and void. The practice is, of course, already that the parties agree on safeguards in their procurement or their contract. I read and understand that this safeguard does not have a third-party effect. In other words, the employee is offered redress on the basis of the law through the construction of basicity. If the law is passed, it could be effective. There are, of course, many problems in practice; I believe that Mr Elzinga has already indicated this. Anyway, the law is there. Why is this still an issue on which I have spent some time studying in the legislative field? This is because, according to the nature of the diversity of the country's activity, it is still quite complicated to activate it. Anyway, it's been discussed enough. It will end up with the client via the employer and intermediate links. This also prevents frivolous claims on deep pockets. That was a real concern on the part of employers, because the specialization in chains, and sometimes in long chains, is not always built to avoid something. It is not always easy for bona fide companies, who carry out all inspections and set all the requirements in their contracts, to know exactly what happens some floors down the chain. I think Mr Knippers was right to ask a question on that point. It is also not so easy to determine what the relationship is there. Is it a real employee-employer assignment, or is it a real independence relationship? The basis for discussion for the client on whom story is taken has already been discussed well and extensively in the written preparation, following questions from our group among others. I would just like to summarize it for myself as follows: there is no guideline for the devolution other than an open standard and all the circumstances of the case count with it in order to establish culpability. One thing is clear: it is not a liability of the contractor. There is also a balance sheet, because I will return to my opening paragraph 'the employee will have to prove in practice that it is really at issue here. Then he'll be able to succeed. However, I fear that it will be a difficult, uphill battle. In conclusion, I note that there are also a number of practical improvements to the legislative proposal, such as rules on pay slips, pay for minimum wages and the exchange of information between collective bargaining officers. I am also very pleased that the Minister has the ambition to raise this issue with the European Presidency. Speaking of an uphill battle... I assume that should this become law, that is also the level that he wants to achieve European. That would be good for the harmonisation of the internal market. This can also prevent abuses. I have made a number of reservations. My group is looking forward to the Minister's explanation. I also see a number of implementation problems, which have already been raised. I think we should learn in particular from the introduction of a number of complex legislative proposals in recent months. Let's try to do it carefully and as well as possible. If we need a slightly longer period of time, it should be preferable. That is what my group is for. It is useful and desirable to do so, perhaps with the exception of the flex paragraph, which is actually a repair piece. Finally. We don't have maiden speeches today, but we do have farewell speeches. I am the last speaker, so I can afford to thank my colleague, Mr Terpstra, for his very cooperative and instructive interventions, in which his self-relation has always been an example to me. I would also like to thank Mr Kneppers for the many things we have been advocating together and for the difficult considerations we have made in this Chamber. For those who do not practice this profession I say that you have to do a lot of work together in a very short time. Then collegiality is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Backer. Those were wise words.
