ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I can also express this text on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which, of course, I am delighted to do. Today we are talking about the legislative proposal 34024 and the General Measure of Governance based on this proposal. The reason for this is that universal postal services have a shrinking effect, with fewer cards and letters being sent by private individuals and small business users. The starting point of the bill and the AMvB is to modernise the UPD (universal postal services), i.e. to reduce the number of mailboxes and post offices. The fact that a General Management Measure can be used to define precise requirements for these characteristics is also a necessary flexibilisation. With the AMvB, future changes can be dealt with more quickly. I'd like to summarize it as follows. As there is less mail, PostNL cannot make sufficient profit on the UPD's task. The Minister therefore proposes to halve the service in the form of the number of mailboxes and post offices. The duration of the agreement, currently set at 95%, is also part of the AMvB and can be reduced more quickly in the long term than if it continues to be incorporated into the law. It's not the first reduction in the UPD service. In recent years, the number of delivery days has been reduced on Mondays is no longer a fixed delivery day and the price of a stamp has been significantly increased. Any reduction in the service "UPD quality" is driven by a low efficiency in recent years. This raises a number of fundamental questions for the PvdA and the GroenLinks Groups. Universal postal services are, by their very nature, monopolistic. There is only one company that carries out this task and so there are specific elements to pay attention to. With a monopolist you want to check whether a fair, efficient price is being calculated. That's what the ACM does. It looks at whether the costs and revenues are properly allocated in the implementation of the UPD. This is particularly important because the company that carries out the UPD is carrying out more tasks. There should be no cross-subsidisation between the UPD and the other services, for example the parcel mail, the commercial branch of PostNL. The ACM indicated in 2003 that it is not plausible that the UPD itself exceeds a maximum of 10% return. It therefore remains within the range laid down by law. However, the question arises as to whether profits are currently being made in the UPD as such, whether those profits are below 10% and, if so, whether the Minister can indicate what they are. I would also like to ask the Minister whether the proposed halving of mailboxes and postal services is likely to lead to an increase in profits and, if so, to what level. I mean the profits specifically on the task of the UPD. I am asking these questions because this is not clear to Parliament in the light of total costs and revenues. That insight has not been given, nor is it confidential. The financial impact on the UPD of, for example, the deletion of the compulsory delivery of court letters, to which we asked in the written preparation, was also not shared. In other words, the reason for the proposals is that the UPD's business case does not guarantee a sufficient return, but we cannot take note of what that business case looks like and what the costs and revenues are. Can the Minister explain why he believes that such a lack of transparency is in line with a monopoly task such as universal postal services, which we consider to be an important public task, not only in its nature, but also in our opinion? The proposal is therefore based on the assumption that the proposed interventions will improve efficiency. We ask the Minister whether this is based on the effect of halving mailboxes and post offices on the operating result or on the cost of collecting mail. That's quite a difference. It is also important to check whether the conditions applied by the monopolist lead to the best conditions for consumers. In this case, it is not only a fair price, but also a good service that fits in with a public service. I would like to ask the Minister if the UPD service is also being tested by the ACM, because if I understand correctly, an annual report on the implementation of the UPD will be made. Is this gonna last? Is that the report on the service? We consider it very likely that less mail will be sent if there are fewer mailboxes. If, after halving the number of mailboxes, the amount of UPD mail offered is reduced again, could it be investigated whether it might be because people have to walk on to post a ticket? Do we not actually manage to reduce the number of mailboxes even further by halving them? All these questions are mainly related to the present AMvB and not so much to the question of whether the anchoring of the number of mailboxes and post offices at AMvB should or could be arranged. The AMvB is made possible by the amended text in the sixth to eighth paragraphs of Article 16 of the bill. The amended text of the present legislative proposal introduces terms on which we have asked questions, such as 'a good quality postal service' and 'a network of mailboxes and service points that meets the needs of users'. These are enshrined in Article 16 as the characteristic to which the numbers must comply. The preliminary study asked for the definitions of these terms. The answers to questions from the PvdA Group and the Christian Union Group suggest that the material standard as established in the AMvB is the interpretation of those terms. Do we understand that the Minister is proposing to make these terms flexible? If the AMvB will be modified, there are apparently other interpretations of the standards "good quality." Did we understand that correctly? Would he not consider the explicability of standards to be very appropriate for the transparent implementation of universal postal services? This bill deletes Articles 30 and 31. These articles make it possible for other companies to participate in universal postal services. These are companies that take care of the business market, the magazines and the packages: both by PostNL and Sandd. We have asked questions about this and the Minister states in the reply that these articles are no longer necessary and no longer desirable. They are no longer needed because of the service reduction, as this will create a sufficiently profitable UPD. The articles are no longer desirable, as this aspect leads to uncertainty among other postal companies that do not implement the UPD. The latter, the undesirableness for other postal companies, can be imagined, especially now that the cost structure and details of the financing of the UPD are secret. Then you just don't know what to count on. The lack of necessity at the moment is, in our view, a less strong argument. It is precisely when the reasons for the proposals are found in a declining market that thinking about future ways to cope with a further decline is not an unnecessary luxury. How does the Minister view the conclusion that it is not necessary to allow others to pay in the future? Does he think that the postal market will remain at its current level for the next ten years? During the examination of this bill in the House of Representatives, it has already been asked whether the introduction of two types of stamps would be an option in the long term. In that case, there will be a kind of first-class and second-class post. That seems to us to be further reducing the service or service to consumers. We notice that this seems to be the only possible option in the conversation; if there is less supply, then consumers should be given less service. We can also imagine that the re-introducing of Articles 30 and 31 is an option or the sending of court letters by UPD or other things. We believe that the Minister is able to look at this issue much more creatively. What views does the Minister have on measures still to be implemented if the postal market continues to shrink? People may also wonder if it is very bad if the letter service, the UPD, plays an increasingly smaller role in the mutual movement. You can also congratulate each other on Facebook, right? If you really want to trust the letter secret, don't you mind making a little more effort to get to a mailbox or post office? Well, then, price doesn't matter, does it? The Labour Party and GroenLinks think along other lines. For us, it is important that an accessible network of mailboxes and post offices remain in place, that it remains affordable to send a ticket and that you can trust that this will then be delivered on time. This should apply not only in urban areas, but also in sparsely populated areas. In our view, if the postal market were to continue to decline, it would not be reasonable to reduce the level again. I have just indicated that in the House of Representatives it has been suggested to introduce two service levels: a first class and second class post, a snail mail and a regular mail. Isn't that going to lower service for people with less money? The Minister writes that an investigation is expected at the end of this year. We are very pleased with the commitment in the reply that the investigation will also be sent to the Upper Chamber. We wonder if the price elasticity of demand is included in the price of stamps. In other words, will more mail items be sent if it is cheaper? Wouldn't introducing two stamp prices be very counterproductive? In our opinion, a further reduction in the UPD may first raise the question of whether there could be a more profitable business case, for example through a lower stamp price, more mailboxes or otherwise charging costs. If that is not possible, it may also be possible to consider a lower return. This can certainly be considered, now that the UPD company has doubled its operating profit or profit in 2014 from 147 million to 293 million. However, if there is a long-term loss on the UPD, we are also thinking of an option such as the re-introducing of Articles 30 and 31. Before considering doing so, it is really important for the States General to understand the business case or the costs and revenues of the UPD. Then it may be considered whether a further deterioration of the service is justified. We hope that the Minister will be able to give us an insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Fourteen days after my arrival in this Chamber in 2007 I treated the emotions rising... I'm tripping over my first sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u4	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u5	In 2007 I dealt with the emotions of increasing division of energy networks. Now, fourteen days before my resignation, it is quietly about what I call the postal network for short. I can represent the core of the present bill by paraphrasing a song by cabaret Sonneveld, blissful remembrance: "And along my father's garden path, I saw the postman go." That "go" has two meanings. I recommend this rule because we all know that the postal service of the past continues to languish through electronic mail as far as letters are concerned. But there is a generation that I believe the legislator should serve for at least another twenty years as she used to. This concerns the infrastructure network of the physical mail and the consideration of the interests of vulnerable users of the postal service and the cost-efficiency of the latter. The significant reduction in the number of post-release points or issuing letter boxes in particular, I refer to Article 16 (7), and the AMvB is rapidly bringing the basic infrastructure to a slippery slope. That's just been referred to. I propose to the Minister, considering the interests, to maintain the number of delivery letter boxes, but in two variants. Letters in red buses, for example, are quickly emptied and delivered, and for letters in blue buses, this is for example once a week. That maintains the basis of this part of the network. There may be two stamp prices attached to that, but that is not what I am concerned about. I'm talking about that part of the basic network. I can also imagine that bookshops will have a partial network function for the sale of stamps and the issue of postal items. I am concerned about the maintenance of that basic network. The government is quite rightly responsible for the infrastructure in this country. The particular feature of the current design of the postal network is that it has been allocated through the universal postal service to one commercial quasi-monopolist and that other companies cannot or cannot operate via this network. This makes the design of the postal network different from that of other infrastructure networks, such as roads, rail, water and energy. I ask the Minister to fundamentally reconsider the design of the postal network and to have a modest study carried out prior to that by creative minds at his ministry and a university; creative, because this requires thinking outside the current framework. I also ask him to inform the Chamber of that study and his review. I await the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Reuten. We enjoyed your singing skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u7	During my previous contribution, it was difficult to put a staff underneath it, but there can be a staff underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u8	I give the floor to Mr Terpstra. Let's see what he can produce for vocal lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. I liked to rap it, but I left my associated rap machine at home. For Mr Reuten, I would like to express my deep appreciation. During the debate on land-based dairy farming, he imitated a cow in a cheerful mood and in a sad mood, while he was a kind of Wim Sonneveld II today, so to speak. There's progress in his quality, so I expect a lot from him. I'm here this afternoon for about seven reasons. For the sake of time, of course, I do not mention it. We deal with the law and the associated General Measure of Governance with regard to the modernisation and flexibilisation of universal postal services. Once again, and quite frankly, I have noticed that the Minister has not answered the only question we have put in the report. I would like to offer the Minister my sincere apologies on behalf of my entire group, and, of course, on my own behalf, for the fact that I have not discovered this before. However, given the importance of this question, I would like to raise it again, albeit not before I make some general comments on the post. In particular, due to technical developments, fewer letters and cards are being sent. As a result, sales have decreased, many postmen have been made redundant and the legal position of postmen has deteriorated. The Gasthuizen/Mei Li Vos amendment adopted tries to do something about this. Former Minister Donner of SZW described the problem very well in his time, in my opinion. He reported: I've received a lot of e-mails from postmen protesting their dismissal. Realising the UPD is becoming more difficult in an increasingly smaller market. The bill modernises and makes the requirements in the UPD more flexible. The latter is done by regulating part of the requirements no longer by law, but by General Measure of Management. We can fully agree with that. Indeed, we find the relationship that this minister lays between the law and the AMvB much more purer and clearer than, for example, circus animals. For years I enjoyed a mailbox next to my house. I know from my own experience that especially in bad weather the well-being of the resident is affected very positively. Of course, that is no reason for the postal service to maintain all buses. In my opinion, there are fewer buses coming because there is less mail. Questions from the Christian Union in the report wrongly give the impression that there is less mail because there are fewer mailboxes. That's some kind of reversal of cause and effect. In the contribution of the Labour Party, I also saw a certain discussion about whether the number of buses as such was decisive for the postal service. The Minister has undertaken to study the feasibility of the VVD's Love motion about a special stamp for people with a smaller scholarship. Mail with such a seal may be delivered much slower. Although almost all Members of Parliament voted in favour of this motion, including my fellow party members, my group in the First Chamber does not think that this is a major contribution to the modernisation, flexibility and efficiency of the postal service. In my view, the debates show that many proposals from the House of Representatives lead to an increase in costs rather than a reduction in costs. This proposal could even be dangerous. The cheap stamp can reduce the brake on cost increases. We await the results of the study patiently. However, does the Minister already have the sense and time to give his opinion on my reasoning? I like to hear it. In the report we asked the Minister to comment on the statement by the largest greeting card supplier Hallmark that the definition of the cost structure in the UPD is not very clear and transparent. The same point was raised in Sandd's letter of 9 April 2015. According to this letter, the stamp has become 50% more expensive since 2011, while the price in the business market has remained the same. The UPD shall be regularly evaluated. That's what the bill says. My request to the Minister is whether he would like to pay particular attention in the coming period to the clarity and efficiency of the UPD, particularly in relation to price developments in the business market. In view of the fact that this is one of the last times that I have been allowed to appear here in plenary, I would like to thank the Minister at the end of my contribution for the pleasant cooperation over the years. We met for the first time in 1994, so I could also say that I thank him for working together over the centuries. I wish the Minister every success in the future, including, of course, the evaluation of the SPD. I await the Minister's answer to our only question with great interest and expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. I note that it is a very good time in the First Chamber, because farewell members go out of the house singing or filled with eternal thanks. However, let us decide on the subject. At first glance, the proposed amendment to the Postal Act 2009 seems to be a logical step. Less mail is offered, because there is substitution by electronic mail. In particular, this reduces the cost of the mail. It is therefore necessary to cut costs. We have a limited number of buttons for this: the rate, the number of deliveries, the number of collection points, mailboxes, locations and also the level of pay of the deliveryers, although something has been done about the latter. Continuing along this path with only the possibility of "keying" these buttons, these known parameters, inevitably means further dismantling of the public infrastructure created for mail delivery. It also means a further deterioration of this form of public service. One of the reflections to which this House is called is that we place legislative proposals in a broader context. This should bring us to the understanding that the picture I have just outlined, which also emerges from many analyses, is actually one-sided and economical. In the past, we have been looking at the development of postal services for too long for our own damage. When the PTT was independent and subsequently privatised, all attention was paid to the telephony sector. That's what the technological innovations were for. The postal service, including the network, was indeed privatised. Indeed, we have not done that part of privatising the network in the energy sector, electricity or pipes, and ultimately not in the rail sector. The liberalisation of the European postal market might have made the need for us to privatise the mail a virtue, but liberalisation did not succeed. There are still domestic markets on which old postal companies play a central role, a monopoly role. What exactly is wrong with that has never really become clear. Liberalisation as an alternative has led to increased tariffs and a reduction in quality, despite initial promises on the contrary. The logic to which we are apparently still bound is that of a privatised company operating in a market where the return is under pressure. That is why we feel obliged to adapt the universal postal service, the expression of the public significance of our postal system, i.e. to bring it down. This flexibilisation involves the release of a legal framework and the rapid response to changing situations at the General Measure of Governance. There is a drastic reduction in the number of mailboxes and service points in the future. We are talking about a half cut, as has already been indicated. In recent years there has been a broad rethink of the privatisation policy of the 1980s and 1990s. Following, among other things, the WRR, renewed attention has been paid to the safeguarding of public interests. However, this bill still breathes the old atmosphere. By removing Articles 30 and 31 from the Postal Act, the possibility of the public authorities guaranteeing public infrastructure, the network of mailboxes is blocked. The SP spokesperson just suggested that the government should guarantee the network of mailboxes. On the other hand, the position of other providers is strengthened. There's not many of them. It's mostly Sandd. This is therefore explicitly intended for further liberalisation. The fact that this will once again entail a deterioration in the quality of service and will put pressure on the quality of delivery is the social price which apparently has to be paid. Is it not time to learn lessons from the past and to see that we have put postal services in this form in the Netherlands through the liberalisation policy that has been going on in recent years, perhaps even for several decades? The public interest has once again been reduced to some technical requirements in the recitals surrounding this bill, for instance accessibility and the duration of transfers, but there is no real commitment to the public significance of a postal company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u11	I think it is logical that the chairman of the Kuiper Committee should raise the problem of public services whether or not they are privatised. I also recognize many of the words in the report. Will the citizen post more letters when he knows that PostNL is a state-owned company?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u12	No. Of course, I recognise the underlying trend, namely that fewer letters are sent. However, we maintain a public network, including a letterbox network, for citizens. On average, there may be a reduction in postal services, but there are also citizens who never send e-mails. Mr Terpstra's postmen do, but there are also citizens who do not. So we have to consider: who are we maintaining the mailbox network for? Then more needs to be looked at than just PostNL's economic return. Fortunately, I say to Mr Terpstra, that analysis was carried out together in the committee to which he referred. This bill takes account of PostNL's seemingly plightful position as a privatised company. How benard is that position anyway? I think now is the time to question that critically. We read figures about a much improved operating result. In the past period PostNL has benefited from the increase in the stamp rate from 46 cents to 69 cents, with a yield of 125 million. The management of Sandd, the competitor, rightly asks, in a letter to the Eerste Kamer, dated 9 April 2015, how can the executive of the UPD attribute so much cost to the collection of mail. These costs are also spread over other companies. I think with Sandd we need to hear more about PostNL's under pressure. What about the profit distribution to shareholders? What exactly is the relationship between the increase in the tariff and the reduced supply of letter mail? What exactly is happening in the postal market? There is a dynamic of supply and demand, and the reduced supply of mailboxes will also do something about the possibility of sending letters, I say to Mr Terpstra. Has the Ministry been called upon by PostNL under Article 30 of the Postal Act? How many times has this happened? What exactly is the nature of that relationship? Can the Minister provide us with a more accurate picture of what is going on in the PostNL company in particular? How should we put the Minister's remark that cross-subsidisation is not at all out of order? If so, PostNL could also be asked to maintain the delivery of mail from the point of view of the public interest with the profits made in the parcel delivery. How does the Minister view this? The Christian Union Group prefers that we draw lessons from the past and do not take any further steps towards the liberalisation of the postal market. These steps will lead to further deterioration of quality and a dismantling of public infrastructure in this area. Of course, we must adapt to changing circumstances, including a reduced supply of letters, but we do not like the narrowed economic outlook projected at our postal system. Let the government return to this front, guarantee the public interest that is at stake here and do not allow us to go further into quality. I look forward to the Minister's answers and reactions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Kuiper. I ask the Minister if he is able and willing to answer directly. That's the case. Then I immediately ask the Minister and the spokesmen whether it is possible to cancel the Minister's first term, the second term of the spokesmen and the second term of the Minister in half an hour, in 30 minutes. I see that this is the case. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. In the light of your introduction, I will address the specific points raised by the spokesmen as soon as possible; for which I thank you. I would like to make a few preliminary remarks. The universal postal service is the obligation imposed by the State on PostNL to provide the postal services offered at single-part rates. The company has no choice; it has to do this. The company no longer has a monopoly. This used to be the case. It was a so-called "reserved service." This means that only PostNL was allowed to offer that service in the Netherlands. Now it's not. Anyone may offer that service, but I fully understand that this is not the case. There will be good reasons for that. However, if a company sees opportunities in this market, it can take advantage of these opportunities. This service is imposed on PostNL. When I came to the Ministry at the end of 2012, I saw the numbers one of the spokesmen just asked about. It wondered what turned out in 2013 with regard to PostNL's profit on the universal postal service. ACM looked into it then. I also looked at the universal postal service at the time. What were the effects on PostNL? There was a loss of 9% that year. So there was not profit but loss. The company was given an obligation to do something and then made a loss on it. Of course, that doesn't make any sense and it doesn't make any sense. It wasn't good for the company, but it wasn't good for other companies either, because there was a legislation that could ask the company to share in the loss if lost to other companies. Especially for Sandd, that was a problem. I pronounce it 'Sendd' but Mr Terpstra does not pronounce it 'Sandd' without reason. You might as well put it that way, but I'm used to saying "Sendd." It was a problem, because there was a constant claim on the company that it could possibly have to pay for the losses PostNL made on the universal postal service. As a result, the company was less financially viable. So I thought it was twice as bad. I thought it was bad for PostNL, because it made a loss on an obligation imposed by the government. In addition, I found it bad for Sandd, because as a result it could not fund the company properly. I went through with that then. I came to the conclusion for myself that we had to make sure that universal postal service was no longer loss-making. The legislation which had been adopted and which was applicable meant that the company had to be able to cover costs and make up to 10% of the turnover in profits. I thought I'd act in the spirit of the law by making sure that the losses could be eliminated and thereby simultaneously achieving that the company Sandd was no longer above that claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u15	I would like to ask the Minister if he can place the losses in a multiannual perspective. He's giving one digit of one year now. But we also see other figures, although of the operating result, which look very different. So what's the trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u16	The trend was loss. It was a non-profitable service for PostNL, i.e. a loss-making activity. I've been digging in to see exactly what the causes of that were and what possibilities there were to eliminate the loss. I have tried to find a mix of measures and achieve that activity in such a way that it would no longer be loss-making, against the background of this, I am going to get there from a constantly shrinking market. Despite the measures, the situation continues to be under constant pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u17	The company has taken measures in relation to that shrinking market. That's what we're witnessing. Sandd makes the remark that a lot of costs are attributed to the collection of mail, and that they are smeared. Did the minister dig into those numbers a little further? The company has already adapted, but why is it logical that it should be said now: it is loss-making, so we should also look at the mailbox points and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u18	Sure, I've dived further into it. I would have come to this point, but as a courtesy to Mr Kuiper, I will go straight to it. As a result of the loss-making activity, several measures had to be taken by the company. The first measure I outlined was the price paid for the service. The second measure I looked at was the level of service provision. What could you reasonably do about that? I have always seen this in the context of the shrinking market. Perhaps Mr Kuiper can help me for a moment and tell me what point he just made...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u19	Sandd indicates that PostNL also does things in his accounting, especially by due a lot of costs to the collection of mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u20	I apologise; I thank Mr Kuiper. Then I changed the Postal Regulations, which dates from the year 2009, on 23 January 2014. This change meant that PostNL had to make clear to the ACM, to the supervisor, how it had allocated its costs. PostNL had to keep track of this in such a detailed manner and make it clear that there could no longer be any misunderstanding at the ACM. There was therefore an obligation for PostNL to keep a very detailed record of all cost allocation, to motivate it and to hand it over to the ACM, so that it could control it. That obligation is still there. The ACM is right there on top. The ACM said at the time that this tightening was necessary and she received it. Therefore, following the amendment of the Postal Scheme as of 23 January 2014, a new situation arose for the cost allocation of the company. This had to be made completely clear to the ACM by the company as a whole. Since then, the ACM has been working to deepen itself in this respect, to see if it can reach a conclusion and then consider whether that conclusion can be made public. That process is going on right now. If findings are available and can be made public, I will be happy to share them with the Chamber. But it is true that the ACM in the supervisory position is keen to ensure that there is no wrong allocation of costs, but a very pure one. The aim is to be able to assess how PostNL's business case is in practice for the UPD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u21	I hear the Minister say in a subtle way that the ACM is currently working not only to examine the cost structure, but also to see if it can be made public. Why should these findings not be made public? At the very least, I can imagine that it will be made clear to parliamentarians, possibly confidentially. Can the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u22	It is quite conceivable that the business case will be judged by the First and Second Chambers and by me, but we have chosen to do so differently. We have said: we are going to involve an independent supervisor, who we are giving the powers and the means to do so. More than 500 people work at the ACM. They're on top of us. They shall ensure that they receive all information. They are therefore monitoring us to see whether what we have laid down and intended to do is being implemented in practice. I think that we have rightly chosen this path, and that it also works well. The information, which is to be supplied very detailed by the company to the ACM, is business confidential and competitively sensitive information. For that reason, that information does not come to me or the Chamber of Commerce that is not going to be lying on the street, but remains with the independent supervisor. It is the supervisory authority's responsibility to follow that. The supervisory authority also follows the provision that the Chamber and I, as legislators, have laid down in the law, namely that the costs can be recovered and a maximum return on turnover of 10% can be achieved. That's what the ACM oversees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u23	The fact that the company is confidential information is also reflected in the reply. Only one company has been assigned the UPD. I find it strange, then, that the charging of costs is just as simple as 'the business case'. After all, it is clearly one company that carries out this service. The Minister states that the law has opted for supervision by the ACM. I have also expressed on behalf of GroenLinks that it is very difficult for us as parliamentarians to reason, especially when we are faced with questions from the world and want answers to those questions ourselves, if every argument is made that there is insufficient profit or even a loss in 2013. In short, I am still not convinced that the business case for the UPD contains such business confidential information, as only one organisation performs it. Each time, the argument for austerity in the postal network is that there is insufficient profit. It seems to me appropriate that Parliament should be able to take note of this, at least confidentially. So I would like to repeat my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u24	Mrs. King said insufficient profit. However, in response to her question, which conclusion was reached by the ACM in 2012 in 2013, I indicated that there was a loss of 9%. In response to the interruption I also said that this was the trend and that it was a loss-making activity. Mrs King rightly says that one company carries out this activity, but so can other companies. But they don't. This one company has to do it and has no choice. Other companies are allowed to do it. Mrs King must also imagine that the total market consists of 14% of the UPD and 86% of other activities. Moreover, there is not only the postal market, but also the parcel market. An organisation such as PostNL has a lot of activities, the costs of which need to be analysed. The UPD then allocates part of these costs to the UPD. The ACM should look at the total cost of the different activities. It must then consider which part is allocated to the UPD, and whether all that is right. This means that there is a lot of business confidential, competitively sensitive information from the large company PostNL which deals with 86% of things in the postal market other than the UPD, and in addition with the packages......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The supervisory authority should ensure responsible handling of that information. The ACM does this not only with PostNL, but also with other companies it supervises. We could have chosen something else, but as a legislator, we chose to have the supervision done by an independent supervisor. I think this is working. That supervisor will certainly monitor whether profits are being made and whether too much profit is being made. Should too much profit be made once, this will be corrected immediately in the following year by lowering the rates. Mrs King spoke further about the shrinkage in the market. That is, of course, the most decisive of what is happening here. It also makes sense that the market is shrinking. If you took a picture of your garden in the non-digital era and wanted to send it to your daughter in New Zealand, that meant quite a bit. A picture had to be taken. Then the film had to be removed to print the photos. Then the picture was put in a letter. The letter then went to the post office and had to be franked for New Zealand. All in all, that took a few euros and lasted two or three weeks. Right now, you're taking one of those photos with your cell phone. By text, WhatsApp or an e-mail, that photo goes out. You do everything in one minute and it costs almost nothing. That difference is unprecedented with the way it was in the pre-digital era. It is therefore very logical that the postal market is currently shrinking. As a government, we are committed to doing everything digitally. This means that any company wishing to do digital business with the government will also be given the opportunity to do so as soon as possible. The whole of digitalisation is leading to an improvement in quality and speed, which the consumer has also chosen to do and for which a very separate infrastructure is being built for that consumer. That has enormous effects for the company. The company took into account that the UPD would decrease by 3% to 6% per year. In practice, it appears to be at 9% per year, i.e. a decrease of 9% per year. Of course, we are also in a country where the coverage of the digital network is almost the strongest in the world, if not the strongest. There is a high speed of internet. 95% of people are connected to broadband Internet. Amsterdam is the world's largest internet hub. Almost all connections with America run into Europe via the Netherlands. That's really the Netherlands in 2015. This means that, as a result, there is a constant contraction. Mrs King said that there was not enough profit to be made and that therefore the company was given the opportunity to make more profit. I have already indicated that the starting point for my activities was here to avoid constant loss there. PostNL is a company that employs more than 50,000 people and I would like this company to stay alive and that what we as a government impose on that company can also reasonably be realised by that company. That is why for me the question is not how to make the company make more profit but how to prevent the company from continuing to lose on the UPD. I have already answered Mrs. King's question about the business case. She started it, and she ended it. I think that is very legitimate. I also think that all the information should be looked at, as Mrs King wishes. Only, we've chosen to get the ACM to do that. I believe that this is also a good way of fulfilling the responsibility we have to ensure that everything is done in a responsible way. We've put things well into the law, and we've created a good supervisor. In the end, that business case is also assessed on the outcome, namely whether more profit is made than is allowed. If so, action will be taken. With each other we are now creating a situation in which making loss belongs to the past. With that we also removed a cloud above the company Sandd. That's what's right for that company. As far as I am concerned, there is no question of transparency. However, we have said that transparency must be there for the ACM. The ACM has 100% transparency. We have already taken a number of measures, such as allowing for an increase in the price of stamps and a reduction in the provision of services. What we are about to do is to follow up and, in my opinion, to maintain this service which is still important in a responsible way. In the new situation that will eventually be created, there are still around 10,000 mailboxes and about 1,000 post offices scattered in the country. Despite the shrinkage to 9% per year at present, this service can still be continued. I also note with regard to the PostNL company that this is what we are trying to do and that this is what is being done very conscientiously. There, too, we are well aware of the responsibility that one has as a company for the rural area as well. If changes are made, it will be examined whether they can be done in such a way that they do not impose unnecessary restrictions on people. It is also said by PostNL: we will not remove those mailboxes from the nursing homes and we will first consult with the consumer organisations. The law stipulates that the opinions of these consumer organisations must be answered in writing and that there should only be an argument for a derogation. This way of working, as shown by the legislative proposal, is a way of working that corresponds to the approach of the PostNL company, which also has a very good eye for it. When reducing the number of mailboxes and post offices, the cost effect and impact on the result of the UPD for the company PostNL were taken into account. We have also looked at how to ensure that, in this shrinking market, where there is a large and good alternative to an old form of service, services can be maintained. Ms. Koning further asked if the service provided by PostNL with regard to the UPD is being reviewed. That's what's happening. We have laid down the important aspects of the service provision in the law and in the AMvB. The ACM shall ensure that this is done. In this way it is also monitored whether the quality that the company has to deliver is also delivered. Mrs King suspected that it would be possible that fewer letterboxes and fewer post offices would also result in fewer letters. Those aren't the clues I have right now. Of the 2,000 post offices, a thousand are uneconomic at the moment. Of the about 20,000 mailboxes we have now, there are many where some letters come in a week and where PostNL has to go five days a week to see if there might be a letter in it. I think that's a situation that's not sustainable. So the situation is not that people have to learn from their letter in order to get rid of it. No, the situation is that people choose with their feet. This means that in practice they say farewell to the post on a large scale and that they move on to the digital mail. That does not alter the fact that the classic post is still being used. That is what we want to maintain. With the measures that we have taken and which we are taking on the basis of this bill and will be able to take if the AMvB is to be adapted, we think we can maintain this service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u25	According to the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks, it is quite possible that those letters that end up in that mailbox, which is not profitable at all, will no longer be posted at all. If people have to walk twice as far as bad weather, as Mr Terpstra said, but also in good weather, and they are going to see it as an obstacle and therefore they are going to post fewer letters, those farther away mailboxes may also become uneconomic. It is precisely when it comes to this relationship, as well as the relationship between making the stamp more expensive, which may also make it less easy to send a postcard, that we would like to keep our finger on the wrist, because it ultimately undermines the system of public networks, universal postal services. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u26	Yes, but with respect to Mrs King, it is true that we can think of this from behind our desk, but that in practice, year after year, there is a sharp contraction in the supply of mail. The number of post offices and mailboxes remained the same, but every year there was a huge contraction in the supply of mail. So there is something really different going on than Mrs King is now putting forward. However, that does not mean that what she says should not be a point of attention. In the three-yearly evaluation of the postal market, therefore, I will make Mrs Koning's point very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u27	How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u28	I'm just getting started, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u29	I was hoping you could get the first and second term together in half an hour. 'Cause I'm just looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u30	The last time I stood here, I was. You call me and I'm asked 80 questions. Then, after six questions, you say: are you not finished yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u31	Nor is it intended to shorten your speaking time, but we happen to have a very difficult agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u32	I will try to answer the questions very quickly and very briefly. Ms. King asked about the concept of "good quality" of the UPD. This concept is enshrined in the law and in the 2009 Postal Decree, which lays down what the UPD must comply with. If they are met, they are "good quality." Mrs Koning's question was whether we can say that there is no need for other companies to contribute to losses on the UPD, the deletion of Articles 30 and 31, and whether we can exclude the Labour Party and also GroenLinks do not want to rule out at all the possibility that in future other companies will have to contribute to a loss-making UPD. That's not the approach I've chosen. My approach is that if the government imposes an obligation on a company, the company must be able to run without loss. This is reasonable and in the interests of the company and its employees. It is also in the interest of maintaining the service. It is also in the interests of the other companies which, without being able to do anything about it, face accounts and, as a result, face financing problems. That's all wrong. That is why I think it is very sensible that we and those articles should be deleted and thereby remove the threat to the other companies, and at the same time take measures to prevent any further losses and at the same time monitor whether excessive profits are being made. As I have already indicated, there is the ACM for that. Mrs King asked if I expect the market to remain at the same level for the next ten years. I don't have that expectation at all. The postal market will continue to shrink. However, as a result of digital developments, people will buy much more electronically. They buy things over the internet that they then get delivered by a parcel delivery company. One of the large parcel delivery companies in the country is PostNL. Thus, where there is a contraction in letters, there is a growth in packages. Maybe I can also say something right now about the possible cross-financing. Of course, it would not be good if the company PostNL could use the profits made by the UPD for lower rates in the business market. That would not be good, because then they could enter into unfair competition in the business market. It would also not be good if the losses made on the UPD had to be offset from the business market. This means that PostNL is selling itself out of the market on the business market, and that is not good either. We shouldn't get the company into this kind of trouble. That is why we have now kept on the line that one company is required to do so. The company must be able to do so without loss. We will also prevent them from making too much profit. We'll keep an eye out that when calculating the costs to the UPD, no weird things happen. We allow the ACM to keep an eye on that. Mrs King also asked about the introduction of "second-class post," as she called it. Others talked about that, too. Maybe I can try to answer all that together? Mr Reuten suggested two mailboxes: one for the slow mail and the other for the fast mail. That suggestion should also be taken into account in what I promised to the House of Representatives, namely to see how you could shape a two-speed system with two prizes. Mr Reuten's suggestion must be taken into account. We'll do the same. However, I do not expect much of that; I said that in the House of Representatives and I say that again here. I think it is organised in such a way that it only leads to higher costs rather than lower costs. I don't think we're making much progress right now. However, the Lower House has asked to work out how this could be done. In future evaluations, we can see if there is a time when there are reasons to do so. At the moment I do not think we can, but we will work it out and we will involve Mr Reuten's suggestion. I hope Mrs King has received an answer to the questions she has put. I am glad that she assumes that I have it to come up with other solutions for the friction between price and service and our desire to maintain the UPD. I think we've used all the creativity we can. We have enabled the company to do what is necessary to maintain the service at a reasonable level, but also in such a way that the costs remain manageable. The package of measures plus what we have done before combined with the increase in the stamp price, will allow the company to carry out this activity without loss in the coming years. So what we had to do with creativity, we put it in here. We will look into the evaluation and the research that I have promised and which I have just said to Mr Reuten, to see whether new things have emerged and whether new things can be introduced by us. Mr Reuten, in addition to his suggestion, which I have said will be included in the investigation and on which information will be sent to the First Chamber at the end of the year, has indicated that he can imagine that some of PostNL's services go through bookshops. PostNL can see for itself if it does. Some bookshops or companies carrying out bookshop-like activities already act as a post office for PostNL. I can imagine that some bookshops find that also fit in with their business operations. Others create a very different atmosphere in their company and that is not so obvious. However, these are things that we can leave to PostNL itself. Mr Reuten also asked for a fundamental look at the whole system. I have already replied to Mrs King's question about creativity. What we could do, we did in the preparation of this bill. What is even more possible will be considered in the forthcoming study and in the triennial evaluation. However, we must realise that it is not the case that a public service is being lost and broken down here. That's not what's happening. What I believe is happening is that we are doing our best to maintain a public service that is being used less and less. In addition, we have created optimal conditions for the provision of services via the Internet, the digital service that, in the eyes of many users, is better for certain activities and which are also widely used in the Netherlands. We should therefore not describe the situation more gloomy than it is. Mr Terpstra says that he asked one question but that I did not respond to his disappointment. That's exceptional for me. I am used to responding to questions from Mr Terpstra and also to asking him questions and getting answers. I've been doing that since 1994, like he mentioned. For me, Mr Terpstra, this will have been one of our last meetings in Parliament, which has always been an inimitable example. He's always cheerful and friendly. That's something I always try to pursue. If Mr Terpstra is not here anymore, I will have to find someone else to inspire me in that regard. I would like to thank Mr Terpstra very much for the contacts we have had in Parliament for 21 years. Mr Terpstra was not angry that I did not answer his question, because he knows that this was not an evil intention. In particular, he referred to what has been said by Halmark and Sent, namely the monitoring of PostNL's costs. As I have just said, this monitoring is very important. There will be intensive monitoring. The possibilities of ensuring that supervision is effective are optimal. The information required by the ACM is available. The ACM draws conclusions from that. We have given ourselves the opportunity, on the basis of the findings of the ACM, to draw conclusions on our task, to ensure that the regulation remains adequate and that we can maintain this important service as long and as well as possible. Mr Terpstra gave an opinion on the slow post, following Mr De Love's motion, adopted by the House of Representatives. He was expecting it to match mine. We'll see how the investigation works out. In any case, I think it would be wise to consider how the possibility of working at two speeds can best be worked out, partly on the basis of Mr Reuten's suggestion. Then we can keep it in reserve for the moment when it may need to be used. Mr Kuiper also raised a number of questions and comments. The Christian Union was the only political group in the Lower House to abstain from approving this bill. I am glad that Mr Kuiper once again gives me the opportunity to go into a number of points in more detail. Mr Kuiper spoke about further dismantling and abating this form of public service. I hope he has learned that we are doing our best, we as co-legislator but also the company PostNL, to maintain this form of public service. At the same time as processing the effects of customers choosing something else, we have built up another infrastructure in this country that customers are looking for. Both will have to be addressed during this transitional period. I myself believe that the non-digital form of communication in any form, albeit perhaps at a low level, will continue to exist and that there will therefore also need to be some form of infrastructure available for it. That is also my starting point. I'm trying to maintain this. I don't have a time limit for that, but I do in such a way that the company that's burdened with the obligation doesn't have to make a loss. Mr Kuiper also invites me to comment on the liberalisation and negative qualifications he has given to it. I would like to do that, but the President has just spoken so harshly to me that I am going to leave that alone. Mr Kuiper pointed out that much attention must be paid to safeguarding public interests, but that this proposal breathes the old atmosphere. I don't think that's the case. We see what public interest means and what the public wants. We're making sure that what the public at the moment is possible. This applies to both the non-digital and digital forms of communication. In my opinion, both are well arranged and well available to customers in the Netherlands. We're doing our best to keep it that way. Then I come to the pressured returns of the company PostNL. Mr Kuiper wants to hear more about this. What we want to hear is whether the company does not make more than 10% profit. That's where we put the ACM. My slightest concern at the moment is whether PostNL makes more than 10% profit. I am glad that we have now been able to lead it to my impression that the period of losses is over. That's good for PostNL and Sent. I think this is also good for the customers of both companies. Profit distribution to the shareholders was not in question. The company was unable to pay dividends. If that is the case again soon, I am glad. It is good and healthy that a company where money has been invested can make a profit and that those who put the money into it can obtain a reward in the form of dividends. Then I come to the ratio between the increase in the rate and the reduced offer. The reduced supply is the determining factor. In response, there has been an increase in the rate combined with the austerity of services in a responsible manner. That reaction had to come, too. I have just tried to tell you exactly what is happening in the postal market. Mr Kuiper asked whether the Ministry had been called upon by PostNL under Article 30 of the Postal Act. The question is whether it wanted loss compensation. The answer is yes. That question has been put to me as a result of the loss over the year 2011. I have chosen to act in this respect as I have acted. I made it clear that I was going to get rid of that loss and enable the company to eliminate that loss. At the same time I indicated that I also wanted the claim to go off the table, because it was again threatening for Sent. Sent is actually the only real competitor in that area in the postal market for PostNL. I also wanted to keep the company Sent alive. Hence, when PostNL saw how I handled this, namely enabling the company to eliminate the losses, it wanted to translate this into measures relating to the stamp price and measures relating to the mode of service. PostNL subsequently withdrew the request on that basis. After that, the request under Article 30 was no longer there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u33	What would be the problem if the government, which still wants to guarantee the public service in terms of the distribution of the mail and the collection of the mail, were to guarantee itself, for example for the mailbox network? It's a private company that, as the minister says, gets the UPD saddled. This is a business risk. We all know that, but it is the government that must guarantee a public interest. The government could therefore say that the company operating the UPD can count on us guaranteeing a basic infrastructure at least. In this way we are freed from the dynami8ek of now where each time there is talk of phasing out, phasing out and phasing out. What would be the problem if the government were to guarantee itself, perhaps not in terms of money, a compensation for losses incurred, but for maintaining the infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u34	Take down, take down, take down, take down. Let us not dramatize it. So far nothing has been done about the number of post offices and mailboxes. What is happening now is that we are moving towards a situation where about 1,000 post offices and 10,000 mailboxes remain. This is a situation that we are creating and which I believe is sustainable in the longer term. If the need for postal services continues to fall, there could be a situation in the future where we have to look again at what happens to the losses that are now occurring and what solution needs to be found. Should this solution be that the remaining users pay ever higher amounts and are ultimately acceptable to us or should other solutions be devised? That kind of question, including the one put by Mr Kuiper, should be considered in the three-yearly evaluations. At the moment it seems to me to be the best way to say: the company PostNL believes in it, the company PostNL now has a rate that is not crazy compared to other countries in North-West Europe and it has a service that is still very acceptable in the new situation. The combination with the digital service is also good. I see no reason at the moment to put money into it as a government. In addition, if you did that as a government, you would remove an incentive from the company to ensure cost-efficiency by keeping costs as low and as reasonable as possible. In the present situation, therefore, this is not the case as far as I am concerned. Whether it will ever have to be discussed again in the future can be assessed in the triennial evaluation. I have already answered Mr Kuiper's question as to whether you could allow PostNL to use parcel delivery profits to cover the losses in the postal delivery. I told you, if you do that, you'll intervene in PostNL's competitive position on the parcel market. That is a market in which competition is hard and I do not think it is fair to put a company in a disadvantage. Finally, Mr Kuiper concluded that there was a narrowed economic outlook on our postal system and that he did not like it. I hope that from my answer to the questions put by the spokesmen he has learned that I think it is important that the public service is maintained, that I think we have now created conditions under which this is possible, that the costs for users of that public service are still reasonable at the moment, that there is alternative quality services, which are also widely used, often by the same people, and that I am very willing to reflect all developments in a three-yearly evaluation, which I think is very frequent and to see whether adjustments are needed. I hope that, if he looks at it as a whole, he can come to the conclusion that there is no narrow-mindedness, but that the proposal that has been made here to the Chamber could also obtain the support of the Christian Union Group. Mr. Chairman. Those were my answers to what was put forward by the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u35	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Chamber for the second term. I ask everyone to confine themselves to the text. Mrs. King.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u36	Mr. Chairman. It's always choosing what you're gonna go for. I'll be selective for the sake of time. The minister said that in the past it was really different if you wanted to send a picture of your backyard to family in Australia, for example, and that this is much easier nowadays with the digital instruments. We believe that, in addition to the above-mentioned arguments of the public interest of the UPD, there are two other elements. I have just mentioned them in my contribution: the letter secret, which really applies to the post, which can be questioned in the digital world, but also the pleasure or status of a genuine postal item. Let us hold on to the fact that this has real added value. The Minister has indicated that we may attach a little more creativity to him than is reasonable. He did everything he could to limit the situation of the loss-making organisation he found in 2013. Let it be a compliment that we think he's capable of even more. The future will tell us if it succeeds. We have seen that there has been an attempt to help the former loss-making UPD organization turn to something positive. On behalf of our groups, I would like to point out that we do not want to make 10% of the profits, but we do not want to lose. We thank the Minister for his commitment to include several elements in the review in three years' time and have listened carefully to the arguments about the ACM's control of the cost structure, briefly referred to by me as business case. I would very much like that to continue, but since we want to use the momentum to conclude the debate, I would nevertheless like to table a motion. In this we ask the Minister to submit proposals to us earlier on the three-year evaluation or, if necessary, on what I would like to call a austerity. We also ask him to provide us with any confidential access to the costs and revenues. I'll take the ACM's answers even closer to me. I have heard the answer, but I would like to chew on it, but I can only table a motion now, which is why I am doing so. Well, I guess I'll just leave it at that. The President shall: The following motion is proposed by Members King, Reuten and Fox: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Universal Postal Service (UPD) has carried out austerities in recent years, increased the stamp price and reduced the number of delivery days;]] [[Whereas it is now time to halve the number of mailboxes and postal service points;]] [[Whereas consideration is being given to the possibility of working with two types of stamps in the future;]] [[Whereas such austerities and price changes are argued with a low rate of return on the UPD without providing any insight into the cost and benefit structure and the return of the service in question;]] [[calls on the Government to provide Parliament with access to the above-mentioned cost and benefit building and the UPD's return at the time of the next austerity or, if it is already in place, the review in three years' time, so as to allow discussion on the possible adaptation of universal postal services;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34024-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u37	Mr. Chairman. Two short dots. I thank the Minister. That was the zero point. Those mailboxes are part of the network. I ask the Minister to maintain this part of the network structure by not removing mailboxes, but by painting some buses blue. Then you keep the network in place. On the blue mailboxes come the announcement that the blue mailboxes are only emptied once a week. This is separate from a possible double tariff structure. My second point is that I do not know whether the Minister has understood my proposal correctly. I am concerned with the design of the current postal network. The current design is via the UPD, so via a quasi-monopolist. I would like to see a creative mind, besides the minister, there are other creative minds outside the existing UPD structure, who began to think about how to set up that network structure. In addition to PostNL, other companies can also use the network structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. After all, it is an interesting debate, in which different approaches become visible. In any case, I am pleased that we are going to carry out evaluations in the long term, with possible different approaches than the Minister is now proposing, although, of course, he has every right to do so, I say with all due respect. The whole approach is based on the idea that we are going to digitize in our communication with each other. In economic reasoning, of course, averages are always used. It will be true on average, but not all citizens will soon have equal access to ordinary postal services as we know it today. If we say that it is the case and that the customer wants something else, then we exclude people who are really dependent on the physical letter traffic. Letters post has multiple functions than simply transferring information from a to b. The letter secret has already been mentioned. There are so many other functions. I miss that dimension in the debate. The ACM is still studying the business case of Post NL. The recitals to the bill make it clear that there is something going on with the return. I believe that, and that is, of course, a dynamic that is inevitable for the company. However, it is somewhat strange that we cannot consider this aspect. We should have the results of the study of the ACM before we talk about these steps. The steps are irreversible. Things are being taken out of the law and there will be General Management Measures. In the future, this will give quite different possibilities for steering. We're not gonna put Articles 30 and 31 back into the law anymore, as someone suggested. So something is really being done. With that, we follow very closely the remaining offer. Should we not react differently from a public point of view? Should we not say that we want to keep a minimum for those citizens for whom it is very important, particularly because of the other functions of postal services, and to maintain the physical network? I think there's a job here for the government. I've asked the Minister about this. After all, public commitment is needed to maintain a basic quality of the network. That's our approach. I don't think it brings us all together. It makes us critical of the proposal. Of course, we want to know everything about this debate, but we would have thought it important if the government had said that the post is a very important provision that needs to be preserved. The Minister has said that he wants to maintain the supply, but we believe that maintaining it requires a greater commitment, such as not taking Articles 30 and 31 out of the law to maintain public postal services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u39	I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to answer directly. I understand from him that this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u40	Mr. Chairman. I share the view of Mrs King that getting a letter, the letter secret, the pleasure you can have when you receive a physical letter and the status of a physical letter are all aspects that matter. I also share Mr Kuiper's view that there is still an important public service. Therefore, I absolutely intend to maintain that public service. That is what my measures are aimed at. Despite the fact that customers are increasingly opting for something else, we want to maintain the supply. We want the service to be carried out in such a way that the company does not have to put money on it. This is, after all, a condition for maintaining the service: if you let a company do something that only makes a loss, it will never last for long. We organize it in such a way that the company does not make a loss. We are also ensuring that it cannot make too much profit, although that is not yet the case. Too much profit cannot be made by the company, because we have imposed a legal limit and can immediately correct the next year by lowering the rates. In this way, we are still trying to maintain this important provision. I am not working towards a final model, I am working towards maintaining this for a number of years, and we are looking every three years to see if the circumstances have changed and what measures are reasonable to take to respond to the circumstances. What's important stays in the law. What is also important but needs to be able to change quickly, we are putting into a General Measure of Governance. Moreover, it is a General Measure of Management which is placed before both the Second and the First Chambers, so that both Chambers have the opportunity to express their views on it. I believe that we have found a good mix and that the attitude of Mrs King and Mr Kuiper on Post NL and physical post is no different from my attitude. I also think it is important to maintain this public service. I think that's what we're doing with this bill. Mrs. King once again mentioned that she wants to have an insight into the business case. She filed a motion on this. I don't like remembering Mrs. King's insight into the business case. It is an important public service, as she says. She's being imposed by law on a company by us. We are taking all kinds of austerity measures with rates going up. Mrs. King says she wants to have an insight into that. I understand that very much. However, I also understand the choice we made at the time. We had two options back then. One was that we would have everything looked at by the Minister, the Second and the First Chamber. The other possibility was that we set up an independent supervisor who could get all the information, and that we said exactly what that independent supervisor should monitor and what he should stick to. That is the way we have fulfilled our responsibility. I wish to stick to the way it is laid down in the law. For that reason, I advise against Mrs. King's motion. I do intend to discuss with the ACM whether we can find a way through a briefing to the First and Second Chamber to provide insight into what is going on, what is the situation and what questions she needs to respond to. In this way, there will be no business confidentiality and competition-sensitive information in places where it should not be, but additional insight will emerge. I will therefore use the ACM to see how I can respond to Mrs King's wishes. Maybe this approach is a reason for her to withdraw or retain the motion. I'd like to leave that to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u41	Exceptionally, I am attending the debate, but I am not speaking. However, I am aware of some history in the area of the ACM. I hear what Mr King is asking and I actually want to say the opposite. It seems to me very sensible to keep the separation between tasks clear. This has been extensively discussed by the ACM Institution Act. I think it's important that we keep it that way. I was reluctant to speak out, because that will save an explanation of vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u42	Thank you for this interruption. I believe that the interruption should not prevent me from speaking with the ACM about how we can provide additional insight to the Chamber, given the interest of the First Chamber in this subject, given the importance that the First Chamber attaches to this form of public service and with respect for what we have legally laid down and the task that we have given to the ACM. I would like to have that consultation with the ACM anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u43	Here's what I understand. Without knowing all the figures, this additional insight will give us a better sense of the impact of the measures if they are proposed. We can also better assess the impact of the measures in the review in three years' time. The lack of insight is precisely what our displeasure is focusing on right now. If you know that there was a loss in the old structure, but you don't know if the proposed measures are going to help enough or not. Too much help, you feel a little out of control. Without having exactly that insight, I do understand that the discussion between the Minister and the ACM can lead to a better feeling. I'm sure I'd like to thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u44	I want to do it the way Mrs. King says it now. Together with the ACM, if what we have discussed now can be done, I will see what is the best time to do so. That may be possible at the end of the year, if we have the research on those two speeds available, but it may also be possible at the next evaluation. If the volume of the delivered mail falls even further than we expect now or if the profits are larger than we actually thought, then that may also be moments to give that insight to the Chamber. As Mrs King says, we must feel that there is sufficient insight. If there is, we'll share it with the room. If that is possible and if Mrs King is satisfied with it, this motion could perhaps be withdrawn by Mrs King. I'll wait and see. Mrs King does not think that 10% profit should be sought. I don't think so. No loss should be sought. A company must be able to make a reasonable profit on activities so that people who have invested money in that company can receive a reasonable remuneration for that. How high that fee is, I don't know. I note that the law stipulates that this may not exceed 10% of turnover. As long as there's no reason to make changes, that's what I'm focusing on right now. Mr Reuten suggested that PostNL should have the mailboxes painted blue already. I wouldn't want to do that. I think that Mr Reuten's suggestion should be involved in the development of a possible two-speed system. I also think that that two-speed system, two stamps, is not profitable at the moment, so that it has no added value. It's not something we should be deciding on right now. But the House of Representatives has asked for it to be worked out. I should like to take up Mr Reuten's suggestion in this regard. Then we will see, also on the basis of the impact, whether that is something that can be portrayed in the near future. I have no objection in principle to that. If it can contribute to the maintenance of important public services, I am certainly not against this in advance. But I do not have the expectation that it can make a positive contribution at the moment. Mr Reuten thinks that we should let go of our creativity on the evaluation. There is so much going on in the postal market that, if you evaluate once every three years, you also have to look at what alternatives can be devised. I think that's the way it should be. Mr Reuten's suggestion is also included in the evaluation, the first of which is planned after a period of three years. Mr Kuiper stressed the importance of public services. I share that insight. Wouldn't following the shrinking offer, what we're doing right now, have to be different? I think that shrinking offer is a given. The consumer chooses something; he sees different possibilities. If he chooses option B, then possibility A comes into tribulation. If this happens year after year, option A becomes more expensive and there are all kinds of things to be taken into account in order to maintain that possibility at all. I still think it's worth doing that. I think that with the measures that have been taken, we have created this situation, in addition to the measures that have already been taken. As far as more far-reaching decisions are concerned, which are no longer based on the importance of this public service, I do not see how I would go from that other approach. I'll wait for the evaluations to see how the case develops. But now my intention is to maintain it. At PostNL I taste the constant willingness to do so as reasonably as possible, taking into account the interests of all concerned. The difference between Mr Kuiper and I's approaches is not so great, because we both see the importance of this public service and we both intend to maintain it in a reasonable way. As far as I'm concerned, reasonableness also means that you don't impose an obligation on a company to make a loss. The constant loss-making of services calls into question. That's what I don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-9.u45	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on this bill and on the motion.
