ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. RTL News has received an important police report from 2013, which shows that there has been large-scale registration fraud in the last ten years. Criminals break into car companies and steal license plates and license plates. Then they put fake plates on cars. The criminals thus emerge from the dance and innocent citizens can be regarded as suspects or victims of high fines. Those fines must all be challenged separately in court. That is a personal tragedy for the people involved. It would therefore be logical if the Minister had followed the advice contained in the report revealed by RTL. However, that important report disappeared in the Minister's drawer. To see the report, requests have been made by RTL on the basis of the Public Administration Act. It's been a long time. A penalty payment has even been paid by the Ministry for exceeding the deadline. When the report was finally revealed, there were whole pages blacked out, so there was no reading what it said. RTL wouldn't have a good news editor if it hadn't been able to get their hands on a non-screened report so that we could see what was blacked out. That leads to the following questions. Is the Minister sufficiently aware of the seriousness of the registration fraud? When did the Minister receive this report with solutions? What is the Minister's opinion on the report? What specific measures has the Minister taken in the last two years against registration fraud? Perhaps the most important question is when did the Minister intend to share this report with the Chamber? Why is so much non-secret information blacked out in the document? What article of the Public Administration Act has been applied by the Ministry to cover whole pages? I think these are enough questions for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that we also find it a serious matter that criminals can use false license plates to commit robberies and burglaries, but also to refuel without paying. That's serious. We received this report in May 2013 as a administrative file of the National Information and Expertise Centre (LIEC). Administrative signals serve to address new criminal phenomena or potential vulnerabilities identified in detection practice to relevant policy makers. It is not the intention to go public with this, but to solve these issues. This is how we deal with the RIEC-LIEC documents. We have taken the necessary measures. This information concerns the facts in 2001 and 2003. For those who manufacture, there is also an obligation to report or report it. There were zero reports throughout 2014. That does not mean that there is no serious problem. We simply applied the WOB on all fronts. An important point is that there is room for people's personal views. On that basis, you finally come to the conclusion how to act. This has been the reason to draw a line in the search for as much publicity as possible. In the end, it's up to the judge to decide. We have taken the necessary measures. There have, of course, been consultations with the parties concerned. The National Road Traffic Agency has a system of controlled recording and issuing license plates. I welcome these measures. It has also been concluded that a large number of measures have already been taken to prevent the use of false registration plates. An opinion has been issued to apply a chip. We have considered this, but we have not yet decided on it, because there are advantages and disadvantages to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you for the answers. We differ a little bit about what exactly happened. The Minister says that they deliberately withheld it, because it is not really a matter for the Chamber. We are talking about internal policies. Citizens do suffer greatly and complain to MPs that they have to go to court unjustly and have a lot of problems. Then it is obvious to share this with the Chamber and to seek solutions together? I haven't really heard solutions from the Minister. I didn't really hear why the pages were blacked out either. The Public Administration Act states what it's all about. It's only about classified information, and if there are names in it, you can make it black. The white copy of RTL shows that these are recommendations. I don't mean to be annoying, but then it looks like those recommendations are kept out of the press, out of the open, when they're not secret. I would like to explain this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	I can give it to you. To be precise, it concerns Article 11 (1) of the WOB. It has to do with the personal views of civil servants. They've been canceled. I think that's right. That's a very good idea. Whoever asks for it can appeal and then the judge will make a decision. It's happened before. We are still considering the measures advised in the administrative document. There are advantages and disadvantages. I am referring to the introduction of the so-called RFID chip into the license plates. The trade associations ANWB, RAI Vereniging and BOVAG were discussed. They want to reduce the loss and theft of license plates by a proper attachment of those license plates. That is a good measure in itself. The point is that we look more closely at the cause. That's very important. We need to remove the human factor and see if we can do without it. If Mr Oskam asks me to send a letter on this matter, I am happy to do so. If he then asks when the letter will come, I will say: in March. There is also a European component attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister has probably been a very good outside right who has been able to make good progress in the past. I'd love to break it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'm more of a center man.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	I call Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	I would like to receive a letter from the Minister together with his colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment. I'd like to hear the timeline in this too. When did things get in? Who did what? What are we going to do in the future? The minister brings up the chip himself. I think that's a very nice idea. The car industry also recommends it to prevent this kind of suffering. It can save the government a lot of money and the citizen a lot of suffering. Why hasn't it been introduced yet? What will the Minister do about the misery of the victims? One person has received €3,500 in fines in three weeks. It's about 35 tickets. This victim has to go all over the country to all kinds of canton judges to show him it's not him. That would drive me crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	I fully agree with Mr Oskam on that last point. I also think it is a serious situation. That is why I appeared in the Chamber and Mr Oskam asked questions about this. I am prepared to state exactly what happened from the moment I received the report. I'm willing to make a railroad booklet that says what happened until the moment the letter appears. Another point is the measures we are taking. I must, of course, agree with my colleague from I and M. She is responsible for the National Road Traffic Agency. There is, of course, the advice on the RFID chip. Mr Oskam says that chip is a cheap solution. However, this chip is also an expensive solution, because its introduction involves costs. These costs relate to vehicle registration and enforcement costs. So we simply need to get this straight and not go blind to a number of experts who say that this might be sensible. If we talk a lot about this, there is hardly any point in introducing this measure. I can assure the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	I assume you'll get back to that in that letter. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, who has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	The SP also wants to draw attention to the position of the victims. You'll only be one of those victims. Someone else took advantage of your license plate. Fine after fine falls on you on the mat. You have to challenge all those fines separately and they are then dismissed with standard rejections. Mr Oskam was right to say that it would drive you crazy! However, this is not a new problem. It's a very old problem. Victims of fraud have been affected by this for a long time. The SP has previously proposed setting up a one-stop shop in the government that can help victims, stand up for them and stand next to them and ensure that they do not have to fight all fines and alleged traffic offences separately and that this can happen at once. After all, they are all public bodies. I do not think this will have to wait until March, because it has been pointed out a long time ago. So I would like to receive a clear commitment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	The points raised by Mr Van Nispen are well known. There are advantages and disadvantages. I will go into the letter about the meaning of this for the victims. How do you deal with that? I will also enter into consultation with the State's Attorney's Office on what I can do about it. It will be in March, because, of course, motions have also been adopted at European level. Think of Mr Toine Manders' motion. It is not just a Dutch point as the Chamber will be able to imagine. It is important to coordinate at that level. March is very close, so I assure the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	I'm just thinking. I can't really make chocolate out of the Minister's answer. This is a very serious matter. It's about fraud. We have spoken many times in this Chamber about fraud, but this point has never been raised. We are talking about fraud committed by serious criminals, which affects citizens. I think the Minister should say much more clearly what exactly he is going to do about it. A letter in March is far too late for me. We're about to have a general meeting with the police. I would like a letter from the Minister to clarify this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	This is certainly not just a police matter; it is primarily a matter for the RDW and also for authorities such as the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. So let's operate on that right now. I already told you when I got the report. I also indicated why we did not come out with that. I also said what we have already done and what we are doing about it. In addition, I indicated that zero returns were made in 2014. That does not mean that nothing has happened. In any case, it is the obligation of manufacturers to report this if anything has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	That internal advice doesn't lie. That speaks of serious criminals getting away with this fraud, innocent people getting into trouble and pumpers not getting their money. I hear the Minister say that no declarations were made in 2014. My question is whether these figures are correct in that internal opinion. Or is the Minister saying that it's actually not that bad? If these figures are correct, it is not easy. Then I expect a higher urgency and really firmer measures in that letter in March. If it's not that bad, we're having another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	I am very clear about this: I only give you facts that are presented to me. I think it is a serious problem; absolutely. Whether they are facts from 2001 to 2003, the point is that it has not been resolved. Let me be clear about that. Otherwise, we wouldn't have to be secretive about it. It is, of course, a matter of serious criminal offences. You have to fix that. The operational people who know about it must share ideas with each other. We have to do it. In the letter coming in March, I will state exactly what happened from the moment I received the report or my people received the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	That's important. There was no report of theft of empty license plates made in 2014, so I am confirmed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	It is good to hear that the Minister will send the letter to the Chamber in March. The VVD already made a point of that chip in 2007 and 2011 and asked attention to prevent it. So it's been dealt with in the Chamber before. In his reply, the Minister also stated that it was unacceptable that people should go to court over and over again when faced with this situation. What is the Minister going to do to make it easier for people? You'll only be one of those people. They're being chased at all these costs and they're dealing with all this red tape. What specific commitment does the Minister make to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	Let me also take this point from Mrs Visser in the letter and not improvisely indicate a number of possible measures. That creates expectations that I may not be able to live up to. That's what I find wrong in this. Of course, we have a legal system. We have systems where fines are collected. There is a need to consider what measures we can take. I'll take that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	In any case, we are talking about decent citizens who are wrongly fined. There's a report that says a few things about this. There is no secret information in it, nor are there any names of officials. Does the Minister not now charge the suspicion that he does not take seriously the problems of these citizens or at least take a run at the Public Administration Act? Is it not therefore wise to send that report to the Chamber as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	I have already told Mr Oskam why we have done so. I think this is a very good article in the Public Administration Act. Personal opinions of experts coming together are important, especially in conclusions that deal with crime. Not all of the Netherlands need to know what instruments we are doing with, so that the criminals then go ahead and provide something new and then Mrs Keijzer asks for the next report, which will not lead to a solution either. I am concerned that we are now putting an end to these criminals. I think the group of the CDA is also happy to stand for that. At least that's how I always understood her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke of the VVD Group, who is going to put a question to the Minister for Defence.
