ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. If we want to see where the participatory society works, we need to look at the police volunteers. This is about the unimportant, voluntary commitment of citizens to the security of our society. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats warmly welcomes these volunteers. Yesterday the message appeared about an amazing decision concerning those volunteers. The decision was taken by the National Police Corps. It has declared special security measures for volunteers. They must not go from home to work in uniform and must be accompanied by armed police officers. It is quite understandable that the National Organisation of Police Volunteers has responded with surprise. First of all, it is a wrong decision, because it leads to less blue on the street and less visibility of the police on the street, while it is so important that the police are visible and that there is blue on the street. Even more important is the question: why is it only the volunteers? Why have only measures been announced concerning those volunteers when the equality and equivalence of volunteers and full-time policemen are always emphasised, apart from pay and working hours? Why are unilateral measures being taken for these volunteers? Why hasn't there been a meeting? The volunteers were attacked by these decisions. Why is it so proclaimed and has no contact been sought with the umbrella organisation and the volunteers themselves? Those are my pressing first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Segers for his questions. It's not a decision of the department. Yesterday there was confusion about that. This is an opinion that has been delivered in the police organisation, but the positions have not passed the corps leadership. He didn't make a decision. It is presented as an opinion to the volunteers. That means they don't have to follow it. This was also clearly communicated yesterday with the Chairman of the National Organisation of Police Volunteers (LOPV), who as such transferred it to her site. This means that police volunteers can simply do their work in uniform and that there is no question of a volunteer being specifically accompanied by an armed professional policeman. I agree with what Mr Segers says. That is also my starting point. I'm very much in favour of paying more attention to the volunteers in the police. We have set targets: 5,000 at the end of 2016. In doing so, it is assumed that police volunteers in the executive service work in exactly the same way as professionals, that they have the same powers and the same training, even though volunteers may spend a little longer on it. That is the answer to the question. I would like to take another point, although it has not been asked. I have promised the Chamber that I will enter into consultation with the police unions on a package of measures that we are working on. We're busy keeping everything under review. I will take the LOPV board into account, so that it does not need to be surprised about the announcement of a measure, which was not a measure but an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u3	It is strange that it is said that it is only an opinion, because an e-mail has come out saying: it has been decided. A decision is not an opinion. It states: it has been decided that we shall take the following measures; the following conditions shall apply immediately. Then a number of conditions are reported. So that's not advice. That's a decision. At least that communication is very foggy, very unclear. That really needs to be clarified. And if such a coherent package is being considered and the consultation is being conducted, then it is very desirable that this communication should now become clear very quickly and that a letter should be sent to the unions, but perhaps also to the Chamber, which will clarify what measures are being taken. It is now unclear for volunteers what conditions they must meet, whether it is an opinion or a decision and how they should behave outside working hours. That lack of clarity arose yesterday. It needs to be removed very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u4	I agree with the latter. So there is no question of any measure taken by either the corps leadership or me. Those are the facts. There has indeed been communication along the road indicated by Mr Segers. That is what I found out yesterday. This also indicates that it is not a measure of the corps leadership, because it would certainly have gone through me. It's an advice to the volunteers. As such, it does not need to be followed. I also want the police, executed, willingly or otherwise, to be visible everywhere on the street in uniform, in a responsible manner, as it should be. I agree. That's why I'm gonna say that again. On the outside, the citizen can't tell if someone is a professional or a volunteer. That's what we're dealing with. I will enter into consultation with the unions and the LOPV in order to bring out the whole package of measures as soon as possible. In addition, I undertake to send the letter well before the AO Police of, from my mind, 11 February to the Chamber. The talks with the unions and the LOPV are now under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u5	In any case, I am glad that there will be some clarity in this way. I am also pleased that we agree that blue should not be left at the police station, that these uniforms should not be pulled out and left behind, but that blue should be on the streets. I am glad that this is and remains the starting point. Then there is still some work to be done towards the organization and the national dome, because they were very disappointed that they were not known. Things aren't going very well. So I would also like to see an action in this direction. Furthermore, we look forward to the letter. I think it would be a good idea to discuss it at the AO which the Minister has already announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u6	The action to restore relations with the LOVP took place yesterday. That is why the organisation itself has updated the coverage on its site. We'll go through with that in a minute. I want to come up with a clear set of measures, together with the whole police community, and let the professionals take a look at them, as I indicated in the debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u7	It is very important that the police volunteers are treated fully and equally. The Minister now says: it was just an advice that they do not have to follow. However, I am receiving reports from volunteers that yesterday in their corps it was made mandatory that their services were cancelled immediately. What's the message to those volunteers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u8	This also applies to messages of this kind: it is an advice. Of course, I'll take this signal with me right away. I find it very regrettable that this opinion has led to these effects. We will make sure that what I am saying now is made clear in the operation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u9	It's all nice, this mess in the margins. "It was an opinion" and the Minister consults with the unions on the request of the police to be more heavily armed. But that is not the point, of course. We now have a substantial terrorist threat. There is only one in charge of the Ministry of Security and Justice, and that person is now in the Ministry of Justice. It's the minister's lead. What's he gonna do to point out to the unions how he's gonna do it and how he's gonna do it? Can the Minister sit in this a little armored and not say: it is an advice? The Minister must say that he himself is taking the lead, that he himself is coming up with an idea and is going to discuss it with the unions, so that we no longer talk about an opinion on which everyone is uncertain. Can he confirm that? He's got the lead, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u10	It is clear that I was surprised by this too. I myself heard it yesterday without having been submitted to me in advance. Let me make it clear once again that there is no difference between volunteers and police professionals. There's one face out, as far as I'm concerned, in uniform. There is no separate support of volunteers in relation to armed policemen. That's important. I'll come back to the letter the unions sent. I made it clear that we are sending the police out on the streets equipped with the task. That's important. You can see that there is some concern within the police here and there. That's what I'm saying. We're not taking that away. At this time there is a need for professionals and specialists in the field of surveillance and security to run the whole stack. That's my starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u11	That's starting to look a little bit like it: one face to the outside, and as far as the PVV is concerned, the minister is leading the way as the face of the Ministry of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u12	I'd like to thank you for saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u13	Look, he's already inside. It is fine to leave the experts to speak, but the minister must do so internally at his ministry. He should then come forward with one clear opinion on how it should be done. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u15	The questions are always asked here on the basis of a message. That's a message from NOS. I am surprised that this question is suddenly going a completely different direction. It has been said that volunteers are advised not to go home in uniform. That's a whole other thing than they can't go out on the street anymore. Half of them are unarmed. So it seems obvious to me that there should always be an armed colleague on surveillance. What exactly is this about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u16	That is a good question, which I asked myself all the time yesterday when I heard it. It turned out to be an advice. I've said I don't really want to make a distinction between voluntary or otherwise within the police. If you go home, that's advice for everyone. I do not think it is necessary for this to happen. I'd rather not. If so, there must be a very solid story that everyone understands and that everyone would actually find for themselves. I do not think it is a sensible situation for volunteers to be accompanied by a policeman or woman who is armed, but it is an opinion that has been issued. I want to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u17	I have a question that hasn't been asked yet. It cannot have escaped the attention of the Minister that these messages are being read in a context of terrorist threats. Apparently, cops can't go home in uniform because there's some kind of threat. Now I hear the Minister talking about internal miscommunications or poor communication between policemen within the organisation. That seems to me to be a bit harsh, because that leads to a sense of insecurity in society towards citizens. Does the Minister realize that and what is he going to do about it? After all, we cannot use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u18	That's what I'm talking about. You can't and you won't. No one should be surprised by such advice. Mrs Helder also speaks my language: one clear sound to the outside about how the police should act, is equipped, trained and armed. No distinction should be made between volunteers and others in that sound outwards. I agree with the questioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u19	I thank the Minister for his answers and his coming to the Chamber. This brings to an end oral Question Time.
