ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. People need to be able to trust that the care provided is safe. Yesterday, however, we were shocked by a broadcast by EenVandaag that shows that needles that are widely used in hospitals and in vaccinations inadvertently leak epoxy glue. This could pose a major risk to the health of vulnerable people and even babies if these needles are used for vaccination programmes. Vaccination with these needles doesn't make people any better, but can make them sick. The production problems of the company producing these needles have been known for years, but this information has not been dealt with. How is that possible? How can internal and external supervision be strengthened to prevent an issue from occurring for a very long time without intervention, while patients are being exposed to the dangers? Is it true that the whistleblower has turned to the IGZ, but he couldn't report this anonymously there and that's why he went to the press? In this way, he was able to make the case public while maintaining his secret identity, which is important because he still works there. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the IGZ always takes anonymous reports because it's so important that whistleblowers get the space? The IGZ is now conducting research with other European countries. RIVM advises not to use the needles anymore. Professor of Patient Safety Jan Klein also calls for this. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the needles are no longer used during the investigation? Can the Secretary of State also confirm that these needles are withdrawn from the market if they are indeed so dangerous that no patient is exposed to them anymore? What lessons does the Secretary of State draw from this case? How are we going to ensure that from now on all the parties involved, starting with the patients who depend on these injections, are properly informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is true, of course, that everyone must be able to count on safe care and the use of safe devices, as Mrs Bouwmeester has also said. This is one of the most important demands that we must and can make to ensure that health care is safe. For this reason, we take the message from EenVandaag about production problems at Terumo, a manufacturer of injection needles in Leuven, extremely seriously. The manufacturer in Leuven, Terumo Europe N.V., is a global player together with Terumo USA. 600 million of these needles are sold. In 2014, 45 million of them were sold in the Netherlands. They are used in hospitals and for vaccinations in both Europe and the United States. According to the whistleblower, some of those needles would thus contain glue residue. No signs or reports of emergency or other possible problems with injection needles have been received at the Health Inspectorate until the notification. However, the signals of One-Today are taken very seriously by us and also by the IGZ. I would also point out that, as Mrs Bouwmeester rightly pointed out, you can always report cases anonymously. There are no signs that this has happened in this case, but we will check it out. By the way, when she heard a while ago that EenVandaag was working on this broadcast, the inspection also said that it could always be reported anonymously. She also asked for information about this case at EenVandaag. Today, moreover, it was only Friday night at the inspection that reported the manufacturer and the type of needles involved. The inspection's on top of it. She contacted the European Commission immediately after Friday night and started an investigation together with Germany, England and Belgium. At the request of the inspection, Belgian and British authorities may visit Terumo's factories in several countries today. The IGZ has agreed with RIVM that the needles that are in circulation in the Netherlands but also the needles that are made in Belgium and the United Kingdom and are in circulation there will be examined at RIVM. Pending the research results, both IGZ and RIVM advise to use needles other than those of the Terumo brand as a precaution. The same applies to the National vaccination programme. It could therefore mean that these vaccinations sometimes take place a little later because the needles need to be changed. This will sometimes also be the case in hospitals, although the consideration of rapid and acute care that is sometimes needed must be made by the relevant professionals. If the RIVM study reveals a risk to patient safety, appropriate measures shall be taken immediately. Of course, part of the research will also be the question of how the internal processes at the manufacturer did not work properly and whether there is a problem with the checks by the notified bodies. Those are the lessons that will be drawn from the research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	I think it is important that the Secretary of State takes the signals very seriously, because they are people who depend on care and these needles. So they know nothing. The company's known for a long time, but these people don't know anything. That's why an investigation is very important. I would like to know when this investigation will be completed and what will happen in the meantime. The advice is not to use the needles, where I understand that the health care services in the south of the country follow that advice, but my question is what the consequences are for patient safety as large parts of the care, including hospital care, do not take that advice. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State when the investigation is ready and whether an interim report is possible. And what happens in the meantime to the people who need to know? That starts with the patient but also with the caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	I can't say for sure how long the investigation will take. From what has been shown so far, it could take up to three weeks, but we are not entirely sure. Furthermore, I am very willing to inform in the meantime if there are any signals. I have just said that if interim information shows that there is a danger to public health, appropriate measures will be taken immediately. In the meantime, all umbrella healthcare providers have been informed about the advice of IGZ and RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	A study in three weeks is relatively fast in the care country. So I count my blessings. In the meantime, however, the fact remains that the advice is on the domes of care not to use the needles. That's an advice from the RIVM investigating the same needles. But what happens in the meantime if the advice is not followed? In case of urgency and blood, the advice must be followed, but there is still a very large group of people among them. We think the needles are harmful and that is why we are going to investigate them, even with other European countries, but in the meantime it is non-binding whether or not they are used. Again, these are vulnerable people who need vaccinations. It's about babies. If these needles continue to be used accidentally, a risk is taken with people's health. Those needles may make people sick instead of better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	There are two things going on. Firstly, we still have to examine the facts. We still have to look at what exactly is going on and whether it is harmful or not. Those facts will be brought out as soon as possible. In the meantime, there is a precautionary advice: do not use those needles, use needles of another brand. This can be dealt with immediately in the National Vaccination Programme. In the hospital, a balance must be made. If the professional doesn't immediately have other needles today and he needs to give an injection urgently, then he has to make a decision which prevails. The advice applies to everyone. Everyone's been informed. If interim findings indicate that there could be harmful effects on public health, further appropriate measures will be taken immediately. For the time being, it's a precautionary advice pending the investigation of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State can indicate within two days what is being done with the precautionary advice. It remains an advice, and the risk remains that the needles will be used longer. I'd like to know in 48 hours if everyone follows that advice. Then I'm reassured. Otherwise we will have to take other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	I think it would be good to inform the Chamber more about the actions we have also taken towards all domes and healthcare providers in order to get this advice implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	It has become clear how important it is that we have journalism and investigative journalism. This whistleblower was not heard by the inspection. How is that possible? What happens to other reports of a serious nature? How come the inspection didn't pick this up? How is it that yesterday the inspection said "smooth on, we're doing research" while RIVM says today: do not use these needles as a precaution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	The question of whether there has been an anonymous notification at the inspection has yet to be examined, because so far the inspection has not been able to find out. As soon as there were signals from EenVandaag that there was a broadcast on this subject, the inspection has repeatedly said to the program that the inspection can always be reported anonymously. In addition, the inspection requested information on the programme under way so that action could be taken. That didn't happen until Friday night by EenVandaag. During the process, the inspection has always asked EenVandaag for information, if necessary anonymously. So we are still trying to figure out what the situation is, but I do not have the impression that there has been an inadequate response. The advice not to use the needles as a precaution has been developed in cooperation between RIVM and inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	Looking at this case, it looks like financial gain is above patient safety. It's a good thing a whistleblower finally made the call. The fact that the Secretary of State says he still has to figure out how the inspection went, makes me question the whistleblower scheme and the arrangement of reporting anonymously to the inspection. Can the Secretary of State assure us here that it is well arranged to report anonymously? The whistleblower would have called and got the advice to just fill out a form on the website. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	Let's see if that's what happened first. The inspection, in consultation with EenVandaag, asked to indicate what is going on. You can also report anonymously if necessary. That information wasn't delivered until Friday night. We will, of course, examine the situation, but you can always report anonymously to the inspection. Action is also being taken on this. The actions taken by the inspection towards EenVandaag show that there was an active attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform the Chamber of the results of the investigation at the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u14	Two-way... two-way... On the one hand, we naturally inform the Chamber of the results. On the other hand, the Court will be informed without delay of any interim conclusions concerning further action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you for this commitment and thank you for coming to the Chamber.
