ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a thriving shipping industry with high-quality expertise and a lot of employment for our residents. This is the case, among other things, in Zeeland, a province that has been hard hit in the years of crises by companies that went bankrupt. The Dutch shipbuilding company Damen now seems to be taking on a wonderful assignment with the Russian company Rosneft for the supply of a number of ships. That's good news. It would be hundreds of jobs. But at the moment there are a number of sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia. This is also about exploration of the North Pole. That North Pole is one of the few places on this earth with a beautiful nature and where people have had very little influence on that nature. So we need to protect that North Pole a little while as oil companies seem to be storming at it and masse to pump the last scrap of fossil raw materials out of the ground. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she is talking to the shipping company Damen. A permit should be issued before Damen can proceed with delivery. If she is in conversation, has she taken a stand in those talks? Does it consider that the proposed delivery is subject to the sanctions imposed by the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	I thank Mr Vos for his question. I have to formulate it exactly. I am not aware of any intended delivery, although I am still talking to Damen, not only about export opportunities in the broad sense, but also about when possible options would be subject to sanctions. Companies, of course, want to trade properly and know that the Netherlands strictly adheres to those sanctions................................................................................................................................................................................................. It's called a Sunday. Such an official announcement was not filed by Damen. The company has only widely informed about the scope of the sanctions. We reported them, too. Our starting point is that we stick strictly to that; that is very important. The business community knows that; it wants to know that. These sanctions cover not only certain goods but also certain types of technical cooperation. That's why it listens so closely. It is therefore impossible to reach a broad judgment, because the company has not submitted an opinion. If that is the case, then we will be putting the issue along the bar of sanctions. If they fall under the sanctions, then the end of the exercise, if not, we will look into the matter and examine whether we can grant a permit under conditions. However, I don't know what their plan is, to put it at home, so I can't judge it now either. What I do know is that we are strictly enforcing sanctions and that the Dutch business community is taking it for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	If the minister is having such a conversation, is she just giving information? Or does Damen Shipyards also say anything about what is at stake from his side? For example, is there a bore that is more than 150 metres deep, to take any technical point out of those rules? Does she mention in this conversation that the Arctic is a beautiful natural area, which is currently at the mercy of a lot of political power struggles? Does she also mention the position of the Dutch Government in this regard, namely that nature should be protected there? Unlike some of our Dutch companies, including oil companies, Rosneft does not have such a good record when it comes to the environment and nature. There have been dramatic events at that company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	Perhaps I should say something about Rosneft to put the whole thing in perspective, including the sanctions. Mr Vos referred to other views that you can have about what the company does or does not do well. Rosneft is a company that has been framed under the sanctions. This means that financial transactions with that company, such as lending money through financial institutions, are not possible. So Rosneft has been framed as a financial party. If requests for delivery are submitted, all these dimensions play a role in granting or not granting a licence or in responding positively to a call for proposals according to the type of products or services, but also to the sender or end user thereof. In the discussions with the companies, we are actually monitoring the sanctions. Next, we leave it to the company to determine whether or not the discussions they are having with potential suppliers on certain goods and services are covered by these sanctions. If they think this is not the case, they can submit another Sunday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister for her answers. The PvdA will closely monitor the development of employment and the opportunities of workers in Zeeland and the rest of the Netherlands, as well as the state of nature on the North Pole. I suspect that we will come back to this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	Of course, you should never ask colleagues to comment. I certainly won't do that either, but I've gotten a little confused. I was wondering if there was sometimes the Secretary of State of I and M here, but then I thought: no, this really is the Foreign Trade Minister. That is why I am asking the following question, partly in response to the questions put by Mr Vos. Does the Minister have any indications or signals that the Damen Shipyards company does not properly understand the probe system that has been in operation for years, even at Damen............................................................................................................................................................................................................ Does the minister have any signs of that? When I listen to Mr Vos, I get that impression. I know this minister as someone full of ambition and sense of reality. Does the Foreign Trade Minister have any signs that Damen Shipyards is doing it all wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	I am pleased that Mr Teven is still able to recognize me after the recess. That's a good start to his question. It's clear. The Dutch companies are joining the sanctions and would like information on this. It all seems very simple, but it's always a little more complicated than it looks: is it now or is it not under the sanctions? Sometimes they get advice for that. They do that sometimes at the Ministry and sometimes they investigate themselves. I know Damen Shipyards as a company that stands for employment and that wants to do its job in a responsible way. I have no indication that it would not understand the importance of the sanctions and the licensing process involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Hachchi of the D66 Group.
