ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I'm glad you're back with us, Secretary of State. This debate is about the implementation of the AMvB in order to promote ground-boundness, a debate that has a bit of a smell, so I was told on the train. There are nine speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Smaling of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is an honor to be the first speaker after you. It is good that we are having this debate today. And it is "good" that the General Measure of Governance is there, because no AMvB is worse than this AMvB. Given the content of that AMvB, you could characterize this debate as "creative with shit." You can also talk about saving cabbage and goat, which is a bit negative but of course very agricultural. How does the Secretary of State look back on this trial? I have the impression that steam and boiling water has mainly been used and that is not quite her style. How does it see the completion of this process up to and including this AMvB? The next logical question is whether there will also be a law. In the First Chamber, Chamberwide, a motion was adopted for the inclusion of this in a legislative proposal. Will the Secretary of State do the same? Dairy farming is not normally distributed in the statistical sense. There are many small and medium-sized enterprises. 75% are land-based and 3% have a surplus of more than 100 kilos, which is 600 holdings. I could call them "Lodder companies." With this AMvB, that small group of 600 companies, out of a total of 22,000 companies, is greatly facilitated because they may have a surplus of more than 100 kilos. Why didn't the Secretary of State choose a steeper truffle? I refer to the written questions of the SGP Group, which provide an example of calculation that shows that intensive companies are still relatively favoured in the system that is now on the table. My group also fears that the hole in the phosphate ceiling will be milked in a row. When will that point be reached? Is the Secretary of State prepared to apply a 100% match of land and growth well before that time? The Lodders companies must be totally obliged to link growth to land, but they can now continue, even if they have a surplus of 150 kilos or 200 kilos per hectare. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Why is the relationship between growth and land not much more closely linked to the "fertiliser amendment" of SGP and SP adopted about a year ago? Now the extra ground could even be across the border. Animal rights? I would rather not, on behalf of my group. This will lead to cows as Olympic DDR swimmers. We don't want that. There are alternatives. I call grazing livestock units, litres per hectare and animal permits. Would the Secretary of State also like to look at these options? Unfortunately, the meadow is quietly arranged. Part of the AMvB regulates that a company can grow and intensify and that goes against grazing. How will the Secretary of State solve this without including it in the law? It is not a matter of grazing cozy; grazing is ecologically necessary. You need diversity in grasslands, which is nicked when the insects are gone, which means the birds are gone and the sheep will be gone. I would not do that to the spokesperson of the VVD in the First Chamber. Then Friesland, the Green Heart and Twente are empty. The Chamber has spoken on several occasions about this, and my group believes that this should be more binding than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	I fully agree that grazing must be possible, also in the interests of animal welfare. But sometimes meadows are not prepared to let cows in, for example because there is insufficient vegetation. Cows can't find shelter from the bright sun, for example. That is a very serious form of animal cruelty in the Netherlands. The PVV has therefore put forward a proposal that, if necessary, tree-planting days should be provided to farmers to help them. Because there has to be adequate shelter before you throw cows in the meadow indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	I've worked in Africa for a long time. There cows are completely dependent on a single tree that stands here and there to get some cooling at all. So, be my guest. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if what Mr Graus suggests could become true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	I have a second point. There are always cows and other animals, Mr Smaling knows that even if he himself has animals that do not like to go outside. Some animals like to go outside, but others prefer to stay in the stable. Those cows also exist. I think they should be able to decide for themselves. Walk-in and walk-out is okay, but you can't just throw them into the meadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Graus, we're just late, because they just got out, but between Abcoude and Weesp you have a biological company. All the people in the region are invited there every year when the animals go out. That really is a spectacle. Children from the Bijlmer also come to watch; children who normally grow up in a city. They see at that moment how the animals express themselves of joy because they go out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	But some of them aren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	The only ones who aren't, well, I don't know. Maybe they're near Venlo in the meadow. I'm rounding up. The Frisian cow is a truly unique selling point, in good Dutch. If there are growth opportunities, as at present, this must be highly guided growth, which will further enhance the quality image and not only facilitate 600 Lodder companies. Dairy farming is the most visible business card in the Netherlands. Finally, on page 3 of yesterday's Farm a number of technical questions are listed. I think they are all very useful, but they are actually too technical for this debate. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she will be able to respond in writing shortly, because that is very pleasant for the holders themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	I hear Mr Smaling of the SP mention several times in his speech the Lodder companies. It is, of course, an honour to have the SP's role in the debate in this way, but I would like to point it out. Lodgers are companies that are economically profitable and produce milk in a good and responsible way, in this case. If we give that explanation to it, I very much agree and thank Mr Smaling very much for his typing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	Only the Lodders companies are too big for the Dutch landscape as far as the SP group is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. Today, too, the question arises as to how much government should impose rules and what is reasonable in doing so. The CDA is also for some degree of ground-boundness, but seriously wonders whether it is reasonable to place entrepreneurs who have invested under the legal rules so abruptly with ground-boundness. The CDA considers production rights undesirable. The Secretary of State says the same thing, but keeps reporting that she is preparing a bill for production rights. I have a number of questions about this. Is the European Commission asking for production rights? What other options are there for taking action if the phosphate ceiling is exceeded? And is it not the case that the European Commission is giving time to come up with alternatives? The CDA is concerned about the impact of this AMvB on many farming families...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Geurts does it somewhat implicitly, but I think the answer is that the European Commission does not make it mandatory and that there are many alternatives. Do I understand correctly that Mr Geurts says: first examine other alternatives before considering production rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	I could give a very brief response to that: explore all things and preserve the good. Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP Group and I understand that very well. Yes, Mr Dijkgraaf, of course you have to examine all the alternatives before you go to production rights at all. We also indicated in the derogation discussions that we did not want production rights for pigs and poultry either. Unfortunately, they're still in there. So if we go through that line as a CDA, we say: no production rights for dairy cows either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have read the contribution of the CDA to the debate on the law and in the written rounds. I note that the CDA has a lot of criticism, and rightly criticism as far as I am concerned, but the question is, of course, whether the CDA will then agree with this AMvB or whether it will support the Party for Animals in the request to withdraw the AMvB and ask the State Secretary to make a legislative proposal so that the Chamber can change the points that still need to be changed on a number of points we find each other and on a number of points we think otherwise too. If the CDA is so concerned about the Secretary of State's announcement, in the sense that she is preparing a bill to regulate animal rights, I would say: let us now take advantage of the opportunity by making sure that this is not necessary and to settle things as they should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	I keep worrying until the last problem of a peasant family is solved. In that line, I do not expect all the problems to be solved today. You are talking about withdrawing the AMvB or voting against it, as far as possible, and then moving towards legal treatment. No, we won't choose that route. By the way, we have just started the debate. Maybe things are going to happen today. This debate is planned until half past three this afternoon, which brings me to a different idea, but at the moment our starting point is that we are not going to help stop this AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	If that remains the case, I can give my conclusion on the contribution of the CDA: cheap talk, because we knew in 2006 that the milk quota would be abolished. The CDA has long been responsible for the plans the Secretary of State is now working on. Here just say that it is going to be a bit annoying for certain entrepreneurs without making any arrangements, of which I say: yes, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	I don't know what to do with that last part, with that "nothing to do"; I haven't had a minute to do with my speech and haven't even been able to give an introduction yet, and then I'm told right: you don't take care of anything. I think Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals should first listen to the rest of my speech. Does the Secretary of State not expect this AMvB to result in many legal proceedings? In my view, there will be a problem regime for entrepreneurs who have entered into financial obligations for manure processing. The motivation of the cabinet is that entrepreneurs who could know that further conditions would be imposed have entered into financial commitments to process the increase in phosphate production as a whole, now that this scheme is being spared. But this motivation does not apply to farmers who have invested in buildings to adequately house cows and who are now faced with additional investments in land that are not financially feasible for many people. The cabinet is suggesting to these entrepreneurs that entrepreneurs could have known from the end of 2013 that there could be no unbridled growth. I'll ask the Secretary of State what this means. With a permit, you were allowed to expand your stable at that time. There was a law that said you could handle the manure surplus 100%. And what does "no unbridled growth" mean? The cabinet also states that "milk farmers could only know after the submission of the letter of amendment to the legislative proposal responsible growth dairy farming that further provisions on land-based growth would be made." Does the Secretary of State understand that, given the process of growth first and then not until the end of last year, she confronts many farming families with rules whose specific implementation was not predictable? And is the Secretary of State, considering everything, prepared to provide an independent ministerial counter that helps farmers with the technical questions? That was the first question. My second question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to let the crew of this window also consider the possible solution to problems. Not being able to choose a reference year, 2013 or 2014, is a problem. The question is whether the State Secretary sees the possibility of allowing entrepreneurs to choose between 2013 and 2014. Then I have a question about making regional loops possible. Unfortunately, amendments tabled by the SGP, the Christian Union and the CDA were not supported by a majority in the Chamber. In the written input, the CDA has worked out or incorporated further proposals, such as the Belgian system of main destination and other plot destinations. But the Secretary of State doesn't want that, and the question is, why doesn't she want that? Finally, I would like to stress that young farmers in particular can be affected by the AMvB. We ask the Secretary of State to reconsider, because it can mean a great deal to young farmers in particular with a wider bottleneck regime and a good recycling regime. When dealing with this law, let us be aware that this decision has a major impact on farmers' families. Let us not decide to seriously and unfairly affect family farms in dairy farming and to penalise them disproportionately. We are making an urgent appeal not to arrange a legal anchoring of the meadow. That would be contrary to the income model of pasture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. "Weird idea. I know. But the longer I think about it, the more I like it. I want a mountain. A real one. In the Netherlands." Journalist Thijs Zonneveld launched that plan in 2011 and we all made a little laugh about it. We found that quite touching: someone who had such ambition. His plan died a glorious death. I predict: this is not going to happen with the'mountain Lodders' or the 'VVD', which very much wants to see all the doors opened in the Netherlands for unbridled growth of livestock farming and, in this case, dairy farming. The dung that would come towards us, the dung heap that will grow, becomes a big stinking mountain that we will regret for years to come. That Mrs Lodders of the VVD wants that, well, we could laugh about that a little bit. But it's not that funny if the cabinet goes along with those plans. That's what's going on today. Since 2006, we have been aware that the milk quota is being abolished. With this there was still some direction on the size of dairy farming in the Netherlands. That happened on April 1st. Today is 23 April and we are only now discussing the government's approach to keeping the problems that this will bring under control. It would be an understatement to say: none of that deserves a beauty prize. The warnings about what will happen if you do not control that production are also not new, but renewed. This morning we were able to read CLM's research, which looks ahead to the consequences of the AMvB, of this approach of the cabinet. The predictions aren't wrong. The solution chosen by this cabinet, the polder solution in the compromise between VVD and the Labour Party, will provide you with a hold on! Three times as many megasts in Brabant alone, as if they weren't choking on shit. In the Netherlands there are now over one and a half million cows. According to the CLM, almost 600,000 are added, 565,000 to be exact. If that's not a cow explosion, I don't remember. Research shows that hundreds of dairy farmers already have a permit for mega-stables in their pockets. Wasn't this Secretary of State as a Member of Parliament very excited about that? Some farmers are in financial difficulties because they have already invested a great deal, but they are not meeting the requirements now. So the plan doesn't work. There is misery for the entrepreneur, misery for the cow and misery for the environment. If you do not want to intervene in such a sector, of course, intervention is also painful, but we do know where we stand. The CDA too is not at all free in its responsibility in this regard. What happened to the mandatory grazing that the Labour Party asked for? Does the groundboundness that the Chamber wanted really mean that you only have to buy a little bit of land when you're going to expand, that it doesn't matter where that land is, that it can be in Germany, that it doesn't matter what you do with it, that you can just plant lilies on it if you want and that the cows don't have to walk on it? Is that what the Chamber has asked the Secretary of State for? If you don't care about animal welfare, the environment and the quality of life, then still, so I say to the parties who don't usually hear about it, it's a bad plan. The predictions are that we are shooting through the phosphate ceiling and thus losing the derogation that all entrepreneurs are counting on. From the rain in the drip. The Party for Animals wants the Secretary of State to withdraw the AMvB and make it a legislative proposal, so that we can still settle what is needed for responsible dairy farming. I am missing D66 in this, which made a big point in dealing with the legislative proposal. I do not know what D66 is like in this, but I hope that our proposal can be supported by the Chamber so that we can deal with what everyone is constantly so concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	I do not quite understand that last point. I don't usually agree with the others, but I don't understand this point. I find that more difficult. The Secretary of State has promised that if there were a majority in the Chamber for an adjustment of the AMvB, she would also follow it. In formal terms, we do not have the right of amendment in this AMvB, but we do have the right of substantively. We have had a strong debate on this. We can just change things when we have a majority, can't we? The latter, however, will be difficult, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	So the SGP is proposing that amendments be tabled later and that a majority of the House, if any, proposers of such a motion, should be allowed to speak much longer than the few minutes we have for tabling motions? That would be a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	My experience is that in a few minutes you can also say very relevant things. Mrs Ouwehand can do the same. Now I understand it's about time. My question is whether there is a material difference between the handling of a legislative proposal and the tabling of motions to amend the AMvB. In the end, it's about content. Can't we just do the last thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yes, of course, but support from a majority of the House is needed to give petitioners the opportunity to come forward with amendments. If you do this at AMvB, that means restricting the space you offer the Chamber to actually amend a proposal. The SGP should know that under state law. So there's our objection. When dealing with a legislative proposal, there is ample opportunity to table amendments and you are not bound by a few minutes' speaking time. We now have four minutes to speak. A bill allows you to register as much speaking time as you want, make proposals and try to convince colleagues. Not that I think that the SGP deviates from its position, but you have to admit that there is a difference between a four-minute debate and a legislative process in which the speaking time is as long as you think you need to respond to the law and can table amendments until the time when the vote is taken. The SGP isn't gonna say it's the same here, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	Of course there are differences in time, but essential motions can be tabled here. The difference, in my opinion, is that the Secretary of State has promised to follow it if there is a majority in favour of it. In doing so, we have a substantive right of amendment to this AMvB. That was the point I wanted to emphasise. Mrs Ouwehand pretends that there is a small debate but nothing else happens. Characteristic is whether there will be a majority in the Chamber who wants adjustments. That's what we're gonna have to fight. We should do that with a bill, but also here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	I will remember this remark if the cabinet once again proposes something that the SGP is concerned about and which the SGP would then like to have ample opportunity to discuss. I appreciate that. I remember debates in which the SGP spokesperson in legislative matters I think about how we deal with abortion in the Netherlands took ample opportunity to explain the importance. I cannot escape the impression that it is convenient for the SGP to take this off in an AMvB debate. If you follow that line, be honest and follow it for all the topics we discuss in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	We're gonna listen to Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u26	I was just thinking about what Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals said. I hope to remember. The Party for Animals has sometimes called for action on mink farming. We have seen the intervention of the Animal Party and part of the Chamber. There was no compensation. The mink owners could simply leave the Netherlands. Does Mrs Ouwehand also see this as a vision for dairy farming from her party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u27	Especially because the CDA ignored a long-cherished wish among the majority of the population, namely to put an end to the breeding of animals for their fur animals live under gruesome conditions for a luxury product like fur................................................................................................................................................................................ As a result, it has lasted for years and the problems have only increased. I would like to avoid that for dairy farming. That is the point we are making. We think you should put a dot on the horizon where you look at all relevant social factors: animal welfare, the environment, public health and global food security, and then consider what space there is for what size of livestock farming in the Netherlands you are working towards. That's much better. Then all the entrepreneurs know what they're up to. It's a bit of a swallow, but it's a reform that's desperately needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u28	I do not get the explanation of how Mrs Ouwehand sees that intervention. I'll see a lead if you bring some weighting factors. I see products in the Netherlands being stolen from shops. Look at the milk powder for babies, which is just being robbed to bring to China. So we still have very good opportunities. I note that intervention for the Animal Party simply means stopping livestock farming in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u29	The CDA can make its own number if it wants to, but the CDA still has, despite everything it says to do for the farmers, not such a good name when it comes to real security and a good future for the farmers. Isn't it the CDA that is constantly complaining about the position the farmers are in right now and it was the CDA that has always been the boss? Even now, with a PvdA Secretary of State, the CDA plans are being implemented. If you have anything to complain about, then you're not doing it right yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. Let me start positively before I ask some critical questions. The last time we talked about the dairy law, it was about night work. Then we'll do a little better in that respect. That is the positive tone of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u31	Don't cheer too soon!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u32	In the autumn we dealt with the Responsible Growth Act for Dairy Farming, but as was also shared Chamberwide, we also discussed an empty law for a long time. That the omens were not positive was clear to us. This proved to be the case when we received the actual implementation of the law at the end of last month. In my group's view, this General Measure will not ensure sustainable dairy farming. The AMvB regulates only partially and very limited ground bondage and does not mention grazing. This paves the way for unbound growth, large-scale manure processing and an increase in the number of megasthals. That's what we've been able to see today. Dairy farming must grow ground-bound in the future, as headlines say. Unfortunately, dairy farming only has to grow partly ground-bound, up to 50% in the highest category. In my view, this means that there is also a possibility of untied growth. As far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State does not have the opportunity to promote sustainable and small-scale livestock farming. The present AMvB will therefore result in a further intensification. However, some of the sector has already anticipated the expiry of the milk quota and has started to expand. As a result, the sector produced 4% more milk than was allowed last year. A European fine of 132 million took farmers for granted, because that was how they could expand. This extension is not limited by this AMvB. After all, it only covers 2015, not 2014. All in all, we are warned from different sides that we are going to reach the phosphate ceiling. At that point, there's nothing more to it than animal rights, according to the Secretary of State. My group is therefore asking whether the Secretary of State will include the requirement of land-basedness in the possible introduction of these animal rights. The second point on which my group is very disappointed is that the grazing is not included in the AMvB. The meadow is falling, but the Secretary of State sees no reason to intervene. After all, the market must do it. However, now it appears that a large part of the market is sceptical. Last Tuesday it became clear that the ambition of 80% grazing cannot count on support from dairy farmers. Some 60% of dairy farmers believe that 80% grazing is not a real goal. My group is therefore curious whether the Secretary of State is prepared to legally anchor pastures if the grazing is stagnant or even falling further. We would like to have a response on this point. Finally, the process. I must say that the process surrounding the treatment of the law and also of the AMvB has gone sloppy. The Lower House, but certainly also the Upper Chamber, had to pass an empty law with steam and boiling water. The Secretary of State then threatened with doom scenarios if we didn't pass the law. It appears once again that pressure is being put on the Chamber not to stop this AMvB. My group believes that the AMvB as a whole should be included in the dairy law. Unfortunately, in responding to the written input from the political groups that if one of the two chambers decides to stop, the Secretary of State is not going to succeed in getting the new legislation through both chambers before 1 January 2016. On what does the Secretary of State base this ruling? Can it indicate where it sees concrete bottlenecks? Didn't the Secretary of State herself contribute to this problem by waiting so long before she sent the AMvB to the Chamber? Why does she refuse the adopted motion-Reuten c.s. to execute? My group wants a clear answer to this. The argument I have read so far is that the referendum law will be in force from 1 June and that it will last eight weeks longer. I do not see the reason why it would not be possible to pass a law before 1 January. The Secretary of State could have prepared that by now. Why didn't she? In the autumn it was possible to get a law through the Lower House and also through the Upper Chamber with steam and boiling water. Then it was in favour of the cabinet, then the secretary of state wanted it and then it did. At the time, it also saw that the Chamber was quite flexible when there was a need to debate until the middle of the night in order to ensure that legislation was adopted. I really want to hear a clearer argument from the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr. Chairman. It has been five months since the Chamber passed the dairy law. This law was necessary to maintain the derogation, but did not create land-based growth. It was an empty law. Now at last there is the AMvB, which was promised by the Secretary of State at the time and which implements the law. As far as our group is concerned, this AMvB, like the law, is a product of the disagreement within the coalition. The AMvB takes a step in the right direction by allowing the degree of intensity of companies to determine the extent to which they also have to acquire their own land in the event of growth. At the same time, the decision states that each company must be able to grow, no matter how high the phosphate surplus is. The big question for my group is where we stand with this AMvB in three or five years' time. What perspective does the AMvB offer for Dutch dairy farming? What perspective, what future is there for our young farmers? On 1 April 2015, the milk quota was abolished after 31 years. The quota has ensured a relatively stable milk price all these years, but it also served as a lock on the door to prevent the Dutch dairy sector from producing too much manure and endangering the derogation. The dairy law was intended to ensure the proper follow-up of the milk quota, but my group is mainly looking at the long term. How do we ensure that Dutch family farms can continue to grow, that a father can still transfer the farm to his son in about five years' time without it being locked up immediately and that the extensive dairy farmers with space on their own farm are not the victims of the intensive growers? I regret to note that the law and the AMvB do not actually ensure responsible growth. Growth of all individual companies is almost considered to be a right, while we are inevitably heading towards the phosphate ceiling. It is, just as with the PAS (Programmatic Approach Nitrogen) it threatens to happen: who comes first, first served. I miss the mark on the horizon with the Secretary of State and the coalition parties. Where do we want to go? What do we want and what do we not want? The VVD abhors animal rights, but with the chosen interpretation of the law and the AMvB those animal rights are closer than ever. In this sense, the AMvB offers only false certainty. The Labour Party would like more cows in the pasture, but the resources available to the Secretary of State to achieve this are soft. What will the Secretary of State do if the phosphate ceiling gets closer? It protects dairy rights, but my group would find that undesirable, especially for farms that have always remained ground-bound. There are also other possibilities, for example a phosphate quota. Is the Secretary of State prepared to work out different options so that the Chamber can decide on a long-term solution? I'm considering tabling a motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u34	I tabled a motion a few months ago to use phosphates properly. So we should not talk about phosphate surpluses. Now that China no longer supplies us with phosphates, but says 'own people first', and Morocco's phosphate mines are in danger of being depleted, I said: let us possibly extract phosphates from animal and in the future from human stool. That motion was supported by the Christian Union. So I do not understand why we are suddenly talking about a phosphate surplus and a phosphate ceiling, when we want phosphates to be used to the full and even a phosphate bank to be created. That's a primary life requirement that binds oxygen. This is indispensable for humans and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u35	I think Mr Graus is very pleased that the Christian Union has supported that motion. I don't understand his question in that sense. At the same time, we must work together to ensure that the problem of manure in the Netherlands does not become too great. This manure problem has consequences for our living environment. The means chosen to cooperate are the phosphate ceilings. That is what we are talking about today. The Christian Union has focused its input on this. I would also like to say that I welcome the support for the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u36	That's not the point. If you support such a motion, you must never speak of a phosphate ceiling again, because we cannot bring enough phosphates into our country. On the contrary, the animals need to be relieved as much as possible so that we can make use of it. You can turn the dried manure into a bed for the cows. I'll come back to that. The Asians love it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u37	Fertiliser isn't just phosphate. There are also other parts in manure. It creates a certain environmental pressure. I agree with Mr Graus that phosphate is an important basic substance. I also agree with everyone who says: we need to recover phosphates, because that is extremely important. Phosphate shortages also threaten the world. That is why we supported this motion by the PVV Group. At the same time, there is also a small environmental problem that we need to solve together here. I want to solve that in such a way that there is also a perspective for Dutch dairy farming. This has to do with the manure stock, the manure growth resulting from dairy farming. That's no different now. That is what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mrs Dik-Faber indicated that she was not such a supporter of dairy rights. We agree. However, I also heard her talk about a phosphate quota. Could it indicate what is meant by this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u39	In fact, I think it is too early to specify that. I can imagine that there are alternatives to animal rights. Other groups have also put forward alternatives. At the moment, I cannot see to what extent these alternatives are appropriate. That is why my question to the Secretary of State is whether she would like to list those alternatives for us and look at how they develop alternatives for business management, but also for the environment and so on. Then, on the basis of all the alternatives that lie ahead, with their concrete impact, the Chamber can decide on that. In my view, there really are alternatives to animal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u40	We have both asked questions to the cabinet about these alternatives. We await the answers, but I was shocked when you mentioned the phosphate quota in relation to production rights. This could be the same, but I understand that the Christian Union wants to further develop this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yes, I will not comment on this today, apart from what I have just indicated. I just really want to have a list of alternatives to animal rights so that the Chamber can still debate them. The CDA Group and the Christian Union Group agree that animal rights are not so desirable, but I have heard the SP Group say so, for example. We would then put money together in animal rights, when we actually want the money to be put into the sustainability of dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u42	Of course, it depends entirely on how it would be worked out, but a phosphate quota could also cost money. Because I wouldn't know how else to do it. I understand that Mrs Dik-Faber has just mentioned this as a possible example. So the Christian Union has not chosen to do so in the sense of: this is it. In fact, I understand that Mrs Dik-Faber wants all the alternatives to be examined first, and this could be one of them. Then we put the pros and cons together and then we choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u43	I read in the answer to the questions that the Secretary of State is already working on a law that should allow the introduction of animal rights once the phosphate ceiling has been reached. I think that's wise, but that's not the only thing the Secretary of State should do. Before that law can be introduced, we will first have to reach the phosphate ceiling together, but I really want to have all the alternatives in a row. I think there really are alternatives that are better suited to the sector. I come to my questions about the AMvB. Why wasn't a ceiling chosen to complement the stylised model? In answering questions, the Secretary of State has always mentioned a ceiling instead of the stagnant model, but my group is asking why, in addition to that model, a ceiling could not be chosen, for example, equivalent to the 100 kilos per hectare of the sector. Above that, 100% of growth must be accounted for with land. Now farms with a surplus of 150 kilos per hectare are treated the same as farms with a surplus of 50 kilos per hectare. I would also very much like to hear from the Secretary of State whether it is possible to deal flexibly with the two reference years. This leads to a great deal of uncertainty. One point that I already mentioned in the legal process is the position of extensive companies with a negative phosphate surplus. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reserve some of the increasingly scarce space under the phosphate ceiling for these companies? Finally, the Christian Union wants regional loops to be promoted even more, for example by anchoring feed-fertiliser loops into regulation. Several dairy farmers make sustainable use of nearby farmers' land that no longer use these land. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility to deduct these specific manure disposals from the dairy phosphate surplus? I understand the Secretary of State is talking to the sector. May I conclude that the question is not whether there will be regional cycles, but how?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. Since 2006, the Party for Freedom has been a strong supporter of the primeval Dutch cows in the meadows. That's what we've always asked for. But there are exceptions, because in all cases it is not good to throw cows into the meadow. If there isn't adequate shelter, it's even animal cruelty. If you put a cow in the burning sun, it's really a form of animal cruelty. It shouldn't be possible. We must, in cooperation with the sector, think carefully about how we are shaping this. Sector, Chamber and Government dislike groundless dairy farms, where cows can't even get out. Family and family businesses, on the other hand, have created a good global image of the sector for centuries. Look how much our dairy products are all the way to China. They almost beat each other up to get dairy products from the Netherlands. We have the very best quality pasture milk internationally. We have the best farmers, the best cows and the best acidity on the grass. I'll always repeat that. The proposed AMvB also fits in this line. That means, for the people at home I already got a question there about the General Measure of Governance. Rich foreign investors who only want to set up a cow factory at the expense of the centuries-old family and family businesses are being deceived. From the reaction of LTO Netherlands, one of the largest representatives in this area, I understand that this AMvB is in line with the vision of the sector and also with the measures taken by the dairy chain. There must now be clarity, as we asked for a few months ago. The dairy plan represented by the sector addresses the opportunities for livestock farming after 2015. In July 2013, it was already stated that dairy farming is and remains a sector that retains land-based grazing for cows and where it is produced within the environmental values. I do not agree with that, because we believe that animals should be able to relieve the burden indefinitely, and I call that dredging both inside and outside Natura 2000 sites. My grandfather always said: it's "sun loch," very healthy air with which nothing is wrong at all. These days, we're measuring everything. After all, measuring is knowing. Then suddenly they panic, but nothing has gone wrong for centuries, and that is not going to happen. However, the PVV believes that phosphates should not be considered as surpluses, apart from animal welfare, but should be protected. Phosphates bind oxygen and they belong to the primary necessities of human and animal life. Once again, the Graus motion, which called on the government to use phosphates properly, to extract them from animal faeces and to store them, was adopted recently. I even asked for phosphate fora. Especially now that China has decided to use phosphates only for its own people, the PVV should have said so and the last phosphate mines in Morocco are beginning to become exhausted. How's that going? We also call for attention to be paid to the problems, such as two family farms which have been merged just before the above announcement and which may need more time to have sufficient manure disposal and/or roughage. For them, we want more time and opportunities to dispose of manure. Who's gonna maintain and control? The NVWA has its hands full with food scandals and the illegal trade in animals. My last request...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u45	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u46	... is that I want a temporary dairy farmers' window to provide information on the countless consequences of the General Measure, the land policy followed, the manure debate, bottlenecks and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr Graus and I share the concerns about the future of phosphate stocks. It is good to hear that he realizes that this is an essential part of existence. Yet, as he often does, he connects it to animal husbandry in the Netherlands, while you could recycle all the results here, which is already done through sewage treatment plants, by processing over-the-date products, and you can keep other unavoidable phosphate losses within the system. That seems to me to be far more important than keeping intensive animal farming in its tracks, purely to recover those phosphates. I have tried to discuss this with Mr Graus before, but I do not think that has yet landed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u48	I do not blame Mr Smaling because he has not been in the Chamber as long as I have. I mean the PVV, otherwise I look like Moszkowicz.. have always tabled motions and have always supported motions of the SP or the Party for the Animals to reduce the number of megasthals. When there was a megastal in Limburg, I believe, Mr Van Gerven tabled a motion for a moratorium, which we supported. For many years now, our electoral programme has stated that we are calling for a reduction in intensive livestock farming. However, we are still dealing with supply and demand; we need to keep a close eye on this. I've explained that before. Now, however, this is what we are talking about. As long as we have these animals, we have to do something with that manure. The animals are here. I must honestly say that I prefer them in the Netherlands rather than in countries where they still have to invent the word 'animal welfare'. Let us therefore extract phosphates from that manure; let us make energy pellets from the dried manure. Let's make it a soil bed for cows in the stables, because they like to lie on their own dried manure. This has been investigated by a dairy farmer in Limburg. Those are all my questions. So do something with it as long as it's there; because it's there anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you for this explanation, but can I conclude that the PVV does not say: boys, put those manure digesters with those Chernobyl roofs everywhere in the country, as long as we recover that phosphate. Does she say: make sure that the manure surplus is not there in the first instance, and recycle, what is then? Is that the order? Or shouldn't those buggers be allowed to go anywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u50	That is why I have even supported actions by the men's brothers of the SGP to ask for some increase in the limits, the ceilings. All this is clear from the Acts of other debates; we should not repeat them here. If someone wants to place a fertilizer fermenter on his property, they can, but not with taxpayers' subsidies. That's our story. But we're not necessarily against manure fermenters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u51	So from now on, the PVV can support our motions to stop subsidies on manure fermenters. My question to Mr Graus was: what does the PVV do? I support his concerns about the phosphate shortages that are threatening and I support his concerns about animal welfare. Weedgang must be able to find shelter, but the cows must also be able to find shelter. If you add these concerns together, what is the opinion of the PVV Group on this arrangement? This scheme is expected to increase the number of megasthals in Brabant alone by three times the size, and to increase the number of cows unable to enter the pasture, by 565,000. Whether there's shelter or not, they just can't get in. None of that has been arranged. These animals are also to a large extent fed with feed from Latin America, where a lot of fertilizer, for which phosphate is used, is a huge waste, which Mr Graus is now so concerned about. Then I'd think, one plus one and one plus three. Let us withdraw this AMvB and ask the Secretary of State to stop the growth of megasthals and waste phosphate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u52	To get back to the first remark: the PVV has never been for subsidies on a particular type of energy. That's impossible. My colleague, Reinette Klever, who took over that file from me two years ago, could not have done that either. I therefore do not believe that we have ever supported motions to promote renewable energy subsidies. That's completely impossible. We have been fighting this since 2006. Let that be very clear; I would like to have said that for a moment. I welcome Mrs Ouwehand's second comment. I hadn't finished my speech. I have here literally on paper that we, too, are calling for the regional cycle for manure and feed to be promoted. I will now have to put that in a motion, but it was all in my text. I have not been able to deal with that point anymore. It is therefore logical that we should be in favour of this. However, as long as the animals are here, I have to say honestly: Mrs Ouwehand should want that too, and as long as there is a global supply and demand that is its communicating vessels, it is better to keep the animals here than in countries where they still have to invent the word 'animal welfare'. Here the animals have it relatively well. And here, too, there are insufficient resources. That's what I'm saying, but, relatively speaking, animals are better off here than in any other European country. That's all I care about. As long as we have animals, we must monitor animal welfare, but this must not be done by the way Mrs Ouwehand wants. We also wanted more clarity for the sector. That is why I support Mr Dijkgraaf's speech during his interruption. We are therefore in favour of the AMvB and, if necessary, for the intervention of a majority of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has allowed us to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr Graus may ask a few questions to the Secretary of State with motions, but the bottom line is that there will be more megasthals if you do not stop this AMvB and therefore agree that the Secretary of State will simply carry it out. That's what the PVV's against. There will be many more animals that cannot enter the pasture and there will be more phosphate waste. The cabinet also continues to subsidise manure fermenters. These are all things Mr Graus disagrees with, and yet he says: let's do it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u54	To make a comment on that,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u55	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr Dijkgraaf has already said that we will monitor this. Mrs Ouwehand may not be able to do so now, but the PVV has even supported her moratorium on mega-stables. Now we have to look at the AMvB. We need to see how that all lands and how it goes. Mrs Ouwehand will not be in close contact with this sector, but I do want to protect family and family businesses. So I still have to see it happen, these megasthals that are predicted by panic chests. I haven't seen it happen yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr. Chairman. The SGP wants to stimulate ground-based growth, because if we do not, we are putting market and policy under pressure. We believe that ground-based growth is better for the image of the sector and therefore for the future. We also want to avoid, fortunately with many others, that there will be dairy rights. I will come back to that later. I do have a few pressing questions to ask the Secretary of State about the compromise between the VVD and the Labour Party, which has been discussed for a long time. I'll start with the date of May 15. By 15 May farmers will have to give up the land they have, but an important part of the growing season will still have to come, with the associated surprises. Look at last summer. There was an excellent mineral uptake and an unexpectedly high phosphate excretion. On 15 May, of course, farmers did not know that. They had made an estimate for the year. With the new rules, this can suddenly mean that you have too little land afterwards, with a fine of €10,000 and a payment entitlement discount. The SGP would like to prevent unnecessary buffers or cows from being removed. Does the Secretary of State wish to ensure that some flexibility is offered, in particular to BEX farmers, i.e. farmers who actually calculate excretion on the individual holding, by applying a margin of error, for example? I urge the Secretary of State to do so. The SGP considers that the bottleneck regime does not adequately reflect the practice. Several dairy farmers have built new stables before November 2014, without already using this space. Some of them should acquire more ground with the new rules, but run into a wall. They need extra cows to meet the financial obligations, but no money for extra land. Companies are in danger of falling apart. Now the Secretary of State can do two things: either provide an extension of the bottleneck regime, which we are in favour of, or get all kinds of legal procedures over it. For I expect farmers to resort to Article 1 of the ECHR, for example. In this way it could be expropriation. What's the Secretary of State gonna do? The coalition has not chosen to include regional manure disposal in the placement area in exchange for feed. That's too bad. The amendment on this matter by SGP, Christian Union and CDA I do not remember exactly in what order, but the Christian Union was unfortunately not adopted, but why is that not settled here? We all want to encourage regional loops, but this discourages them. Why does the Secretary of State choose that route? I'd like her to do it anyway. I read sentences about that, like "I'm gonna talk to the sector," but you can talk for a long time. It's about whether the Secretary of State really has the stakes. Then why doesn't she count those grounds now? The Secretary of State continues to threaten dairy rights. I find that unwise and undesirable. The agreement was presented and the Secretary of State came to Nieuwsuur. I interpret it in such a way that she liked to say: but if it doesn't work out, there will be dairy rights! However, there are still many alternatives. The European Union's decision to derogate merely says that we must avoid exceeding the phosphate ceiling and, if this happens unexpectedly, we must take action. The derogation decision does not say that dairy rights should be introduced. There are also many other instruments, including the AMvB. However, one could also think of the feed track or the circular hand. I do not want this to be a self-fulfilling prophecy in which farmers are going to increase production for dairy rights. If they do, they will have more rights. I do not want dairy rights to cause extensive farms to suffer because they still have to pay more. I am very curious to hear the Secretary of State's response on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u58	This was, as always, a wise story by Mr Dijkgraaf, with one exception: the troubles. I'm a little surprised. I can imagine that Mr Dijkgraaf has a feeling for the idea that this is the risk of the entrepreneur. If you're going to expand anticipating the disappearance of the milk quota, but can also feel on your clogs that there's still legislation coming, then it's been your choice to expand that barn, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u59	In court cases about this kind of expropriation, the judge looks very much at what the entrepreneur could have expected from the government. It is a consistent line of government. All sorts of things had been announced, but in my opinion entrepreneurs could not have expected it to go this way before November 2014, with this ground-boundness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u60	Many dairy farmers have already milked over the quota. They simply accept the fine, expecting them to earn it back, as in the mink farming to which Mr Geurts referred. Many mink owners have expanded enormously before the law, that novelle, would be passed. In doing so, they have deliberately created a situation in the hope of compensation. That's a bit of a crazy hen story, isn't it? I do not understand why the SGP is standing here defending these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u61	Because enlargement wasn't prohibited. The big question then is: what could entrepreneurs have expected for policy? My argument is that the judge might still consider that the degree of groundboundness that is now required, coupled with the fact that some companies have to invest heavily in land, is an unexpected development of policy. So compensation could follow; compensation to be paid by the government. That is actually what I am asking the Secretary of State: would it not be wise to give room for that in the difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u62	What amendments will the SGP table in order to avoid this situation? We can already see that we are shooting through the phosphate ceiling. The Secretary of State has announced what she will do. The SGP is not for that. So what is the proposal to prevent this situation? If the SGP does not make any proposals to change this, it would appear that there are some objections, but that the SGP will knowingly agree to the scenario in which the taxpayer will have to pay for the somewhat shady situation that will then occur. Either we settle it now and we know we won't get into trouble, or we leave it hanging over the market in a way that the SGP outlines the disadvantages. If that's what the SGP says here, the taxpayer will have to cough it up. The SGP itself doesn't think that's justified, does it? So what are the counter-proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u63	I'm sure there are. I have prepared a motion to examine and map all the alternatives so that we have a very clear picture at the time when we should be doing this unexpectedly. I hope it doesn't come to that. I hope that this AMvB has sufficient incentives to ensure that we do not go through the phosphate ceiling. However, I think it is a matter of good governance to ensure that all alternatives have been identified before we do so. I understand that Mrs Dik-Faber is also preparing a motion. I shall be voting with her because she is on the list of speakers earlier and the wording of her motion was even more brilliant than mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u64	Ah, so the SGP says here to the Secretary of State "well, I don't know all about it" but the SGP doesn't take the responsibility to close those holes, which it has already accused the Secretary of State that it is going to fill in in the wrong way. The Secretary of State proposes these rights. You could do that differently. That's right, but that phosphate ceiling hangs like a sword of Damocles over all our heads. If you're talking about what you can already see coming, you can already say that this isn't gonna work. The SGP may already know that. Where is the responsible position that the SGP is trying to radiate here in order to close and prevent the difficult situation that we are about to enter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mrs Ouwehand already knows exactly what is going to happen. She knows that we are not going to make it and that this AMvB is inadequate. I'm nowhere near that far, and fortunately a large part of the Chamber isn't, either. There are rules and we all hope that they will ensure that we do not go through the phosphate ceiling. I think you take responsibility when you say: okay, we expect us not to go through the phosphate ceiling, but we are indeed not crazy Henkie and that is why we are already thinking about what we can do when we go through that ceiling. That's taking responsibility for me. That's gotta be the room. I understand that Mrs Ouwehand has her own hidden agenda with which she always wants to put the brakes on the sector, no matter what happens. But that's not how the SGP works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Chairman. It is an historic day for me, because I am speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. Mrs Ouwehand wondered where the spokesperson for D66 was. He's not here. I'm speaking for him. It's nice that we can talk today about the AMvB. We congratulate the Secretary of State for an AMvB that does justice to both the sector that wants to grow and the sector and also the Chamber that wants to keep dairy farming ground bound. We are satisfied with the conditions imposed by the Secretary of State for the growth of the dairy sector. For for us the most important thing is: the more cows want to keep a farmer, the more land they need. This prevents industrialisation of the dairy sector and keeps the dairy sector ground-bound. We are very pleased with that. Cows are supposed to be in the meadow, and the Secretary of State says they're going to encourage this. In doing so, the Secretary of State says he wants to open the Covenant Weidegang and lay down ambitions, such as 80% grazing for cows in 2020. We would very much like to see interim agreements included in that covenant. Of course, a few years before this, if the grazing should be 80%, 75% should have been achieved by 2020, for example in 2018. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is open to this and how she sees it. We do not necessarily see cows in the meadow as the earning model with which you get an added value for a cow in the meadow. If a cow is in the meadow, that's natural behavior. A cow's supposed to get it. That's part of the cow's natural behavior. We have agreed that animals should be able to show their own behavior. As far as we are concerned, this includes grazing. We would like to see the subsidies for investment in barn systems that make grazing impossible or very difficult no longer be given. There should be no subsidies to farms that keep their cows in storage. On the contrary, we must encourage farmers to be helped to apply grazing to their own farms. According to conservative estimates regarding the growth of phosphate production, we will hit the phosphate ceiling this year. We are very concerned about this. Farmers who now have enough land, whether they have the financial space to grow, will do so. But that will prevent the rapid growth of others. Does the Secretary of State see an exchange of the phosphate ceiling with other sectors in mind? If so, how? In theory, chicken and pig farmers could process everything and thus make room for the dairy sector. Does the Secretary of State see that image? We'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u67	The spokesman for the Labour Party says that rapid growth will make growth impossible for other companies. I have seen that the Labour Party Group has asked written questions about this to the Secretary of State, but they have not been answered. What is the proposal of the Labour Party to ensure that we do not get the first-come, first-served system here and that the extensive companies are the victims of intensive industries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u68	I'll ask the Secretary of State how she sees it. I've seen Mrs. Dikkers have a motion in preparation that wants to reserve phosphate space. I don't know if that's convenient. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State how she sees this growth. Once you have reached the phosphate ceiling, I can imagine that you are not going to distribute rights to the companies that have grown very hard, but that you are, for example, linking this to land. I could very well imagine that. I have a bit of text on this later on in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u69	I went to see an entrepreneur at the Green Heart. He told me not his son, but his grandson will take over the company. He has invested in a lot of land at the company, but if his grandson wants to take over the company later, he will have the land, but there is no room to keep extra cows at the company. All the phosphate room will be taken over by his neighbors. What is the reaction of the Labour Party to this? Would it not be wise to see how we can reserve space for these companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u70	I will not comment on this farmer's individual case. I don't know the farmer or his situation. I can imagine that, once he has bought the land, he will intensify at this stage. That's what a lot of farmers do. He'll take a part of the growth space himself anyway. I also think it is possible that if we have a different system in the future, if we hit the phosphate ceiling and move to a system of animal rights, it would not be my system. I would prefer to opt for such a system rather than a system that will allow someone who has now made the most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u71	I would like to take advantage or possibly abuse of the fact that Mrs Dikkers is also speaking on behalf of the D66 Group, because then I will have two groups in one go. After all that has been said so far, I intend to put forward a motion to make it possible to use pulverized and dried manure as a bed in the stables, next to the manure that farmers are allowed to drive out. A test has been done in Limburg. When cows can choose between straw, concrete or their own dried manure, they lie massively on the dried manure. There's a problem with the environment. Would Mrs Dikkers support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u72	I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she feels about this. I'm not an environmental expert and I don't know what this does for udder health and all the other things, but it sounds very hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u73	Perhaps today the Secretary of State can respond to Mrs. Dikkers' question? That's how I got a little bit of time on my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u74	This was also a double interruption because you appealed to two parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u75	During the debate on the law, Mrs Dikkers also mentioned the surpluses acceptable to the PvdA Group. She said 50 kilos makes a lot more sense to us than 100 kilos. However, it can now reach 150 kilos. Does the D66 Group agree with that? Is Mrs Dikkers prepared to set a maximum of 80 kilos, for example, so that the Lodges companies cannot grow half-groundless?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u76	I find it a little difficult to talk about the Lodges companies, because of this concept circulating in the Chamber different definitions. I don't know exactly what I'm saying when I'm talking about Lodder companies. Maybe it's about Mrs. Lodder's company. In our opinion, the AMvB offers an excellent compromise. "You can't always get what you want." Usually Mr.Smaling cites all kinds of philosophers or great singers or speakers, but this is what there is and we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u77	Who's "us" here? Mrs Dikkers is also here on behalf of Mr Schouw. The surplus can now reach 150 kilos per hectare. This is very far from what Mrs Dikkers said during the examination of the law on behalf of the Labour Party. Now show courage and hold on to what the PvdA has always debated about this. We are now going to a situation where a small group of large, intensive farms can continue if they can only find a meadow in Lower Saxony. Then we will be sitting on the ceiling which Mrs Dikkers fears we will reach this year. That's a shame, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u78	Even if you take care of it in a different way, you'll quickly get to the ceiling. I can imagine that we will get over it this year. For us, the focus was on keeping the dairy sector ground-bound. This AMvB does exactly that. More than in the proposals that were discussed in the Chamber at the time, is now true for every company: growth? Then ground. That is what we agreed in this AMvB. I say 'we' and I am speaking on behalf of Mr Schouw now, but I find it very complicated to think of what he would have said in a situation like this. I can at least say that I can live fine with this AMvB. As far as I am concerned, this is a guarantee of ground-boundness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u79	The experts don't think so. It may be that a game is being played with the definition of groundboundness, but that is the honor of both D66 and the Labour Party too, I hope. The AMvB regulates that, depending on the size of a company, some land needs to be bought if you want to expand; sometimes more, sometimes less. But it doesn't have to be, and that land doesn't have to be anywhere near a company. The Labour Party has expressed the wish to make grazing possible, but the Secretary of State simply says: I am not carrying out that motion. The land that a company may need to buy does not have to be nearby; the cows cannot be on it. I am therefore a little surprised that both the Labour Party and D66, through Mrs Dikkers, say that we are quite satisfied with what is now going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u80	There was nothing at first. I'd like to give that to Mrs Ouwehand. The quota would be released and nothing was arranged at all. We have now arranged for the growth of the dairy sector to be provided with land. And yes, there is room for growth. We are very excited about the Dutch dairy farmers. We also agree that their sector should be given room to grow. That's gotta be ground-bound. We'll take care of that in this AMvB. That is what we are pleased about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u81	I don't really understand. As I said to Mr Graus: things are happening now that you do not agree with and yet you agree. The Labour Party didn't really want megasthals. Weidegang actually wants them. She really wants to save the environment, as well as food security, and not shoot through the phosphate ceiling. All these things are not arranged in accordance with the wishes of the Labour Party, nor with the previously expressed wishes of D66. And yet they're going to agree. I don't get it. So I ask you one more time: are you really happy or are you supposed to pretend?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u82	My dad used to say, "If you get what you want, you have an empty house." That's right. We are pleased that we have reached a compromise that will enable us to live well, with the ground-boundness anchored and with farmers who want to grow getting the room for that. That is arranged with this AMvB. And we have managed that well, Mrs Ouwehand. I will continue with my speech. I was talking about the exchange of the phosphate ceiling with other sectors. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State sees it. We do not necessarily see animal rights as a solution to the problem to come, but we do not put our heads in the sand. If the Secretary of State is to think about achieving the phosphate ceiling, we should leave room for the extensive farms, for the farms with land and with manure on their own land and for recycling farmers. Linking cowright to land is a much more logical system than just linking it to the company without any land being used. As far as we are concerned, animal rights cannot soon be divided among the fast, intensive growers, as we saw at the time when the milk quota was introduced. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at that. Finally: the manure market is packed, so we read yesterday on the website of Boerderij. Pig farmers do not lose their manure and the processing capacity is insufficient. In answering our questions to the AMvB, the Secretary of State said that farmers should ensure that they can get rid of their manure before they start producing. If that goes wrong, a fine will follow and they still have to get rid of their manure. But if they didn't lose their manure before that, I wonder how they'd lose it after that. Isn't it more logical to do it the other way around, so you can produce if you can prove where the manure is going? I don't know if the current system is completely fair. You build in this way I'm careful to say that, of course, also the shuffling a bit, because one has to get it all together. Despite all the anti-fraud measures, there is still a lot of manure missing in the country. Getting rid of your manure costs pig farmers a lot of money, while the margins in that sector are already under enormous pressure. I know the Secretary of State as a very decisive director. She picks up cases that her ministers left behind all along. She's cleaning up from file to file. I'm asking her to take a look at this, too. Could we not set it up in another way, so that we are sure that the accounts are conclusive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u83	I heard Mrs Dikkers say, halfway through her term, that the PvdA Group is in favour of compulsory grazing and that, coupled with that, income support should only go to dairy farms whose cows are obliged to walk outside. That's how I understood what Mrs. Dikkers just said. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u84	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u85	Then how did you say it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u86	Would you like me to repeat my text, Mr. Chairman? I can do that fine, you know. That's always nice, because then I'll have some extra space, but I'll just have to grab it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr Geurts, we have the Acts, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u88	But they're not available yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u89	I said that we believe that cows should be heard in the pasture and that we agree that the Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to break the covenant. We would very much like to see intermediate steps taken. The Secretary of State has said that 80% of cows will go into pasture by 2020. That seems to me to be a good goal. For some farmers, considering the system they have built, grazing is not possible. We understand that too, but if it does not work out by 2020, we would very much like to table a legislative proposal to enforce mandatory grazing. It is crazy that people do not take this for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u90	Then there is the third interruption by Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u91	So in this cabinet period, the PvdA isn't going to focus on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u92	I've asked the Secretary of State to set intermediate targets to stimulate grazing. She says she'll break the covenant. The government's got money in that covenant. It is a good thing for the sector that the image of the sector remains intact and that the cows remain in the pastures. So I'm actually confident it's gonna work, with a little support from us and possibly the law behind hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u93	One more thing for the Acts. In my interruption, Mrs Ouwehand did it and now she does it to Mrs Dikkers; Mrs Ouwehand makes it seem that if you are in favour of the General Measure of Governance, you are in favour of mega stables. I want this out of the way anyway. Because I know how to tweet again in a moment. I sometimes call them loving the pet kittens, but then they're real catheads, and I don't think they should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u94	It's written down for eternity. Thank you, Mrs Dikkers and Mr Schouw in absence. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Lodders from the VVD Group. Then we're gonna suspend and then listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr. Chairman. Today, the Chamber speaks about the General Measure of Management, part of the Responsible Growth Act for Dairy Farming. During the treatment of the Milk Cattle Act, I indicated that the VVD is not in favour of a legal anchoring of the ground bondage. If the sector wants to achieve a certain degree of ground-boundness, then the sector is perfectly capable of dealing with this itself. That does not require the legislator. After more than 30 years, the milk quota has been abolished. This gives entrepreneurs an opportunity to develop further. Worldwide, the Dutch dairy chain is well-known. Dutch farmers and industry supply high quality dairy and dairy products at an affordable price. We should be proud of this. This does not fit in with our view of limiting production or growth, but at the end of last year, a broad majority in this Chamber took a different view. With the adoption of the Milk Cattle Act, the hook has been created to work out the ground-boundness in the present AMvB. Now that the AMvB is there, entrepreneurs know what they're up to. By choosing a standard: the more intensive a company is, the higher the percentage of ground bondage. Despite the fact that we would have liked to see it differently, the development of this AMvB is a workable, but also balanced route. My group still has a number of questions, first of all about the problem regulation. The Secretary of State has indicated which companies are covered by the problem-solving scheme. However, it is now clear, partly due to a large number of emails that I have received, that there are more companies that are getting into trouble with the development of the AMvB. Previous speakers have also referred to this. For example, entrepreneurs who have already invested in new buildings or want the growth of the number of animals to take place through their own growth and are now confronted with this General Management Measure and are therefore facing additional costs. I understand that the Secretary of State cannot define all the problems, but is she prepared to ensure that entrepreneurs can report to someone if they think they are a problem? Does she have the willingness to look into it? Then I have a question about land registration and the promotion of regional loops. In the letter, the Secretary of State stated that it would go in consultation with the sector to stimulate regional loops. Again, previous speakers have referred to this. This is a good aim and important for the roughage production or the land exchange in the context of crop rotation. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, in consultation with the sector, to see to what extent different initiatives already in place can be sufficiently taken into account in the ground registration, based on the principle of "the State Secretary', where the Secretary of State is also clear in "the land that can only be registered once'. I do not think that we should conjure up something that is then inexcusable or have to conjure up all kinds of other things. I think there is more room for me to say this once again in conversation with the sector and the entrepreneurs to find a good solution. The Act responsible growth dairy farming and the implementation of this AMvB will have an effect on the land price. Yesterday, in a report on farm business.nl, it was reported that the average land price rose to a new top in 2014. In the last quarter of 2014, the average agricultural land price increased by €5,000. The figures were made available by the Land Registry and the LEI, the Agricultural Economic Institute. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how she will monitor developments in the dairy farming sector. What are the effects of this law on land mobility and land prices? Is the Secretary of State prepared, for example in an annual monitor, to monitor developments and share them with the Chamber? Finally, I have a question about the phosphate ceiling. During the debate on the Milk Cattle Act, we discussed this issue, and it has also been discussed on many occasions by previous speakers. This law does not control phosphate production. I would like to emphasise that once again. This means that the phosphate ceiling hangs over the sector like a dark cloud, when this is not necessary. The Dutch farmer is able to extract valuable raw materials from manure, such as phosphate and mineral concentrate. But Brussels frustrates this Dutch innovation, because it does not give permission to use these products. No, farmers are allowed to use part of the manure and are then dependent on the expensive fertilizer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u96	You're shooting through your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u97	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I'm finishing up. I have asked questions about this recently and I ask the Secretary of State to take the bull by the horns and turn this madness from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u98	I also ask the VVD Group whether it is happy. I am particularly concerned with the last point that Mrs Lodders made, that we are going to shoot through the phosphate ceiling, to lose the derogation and the announcement by the Secretary of State that there will be a bill regulating animal rights. That's not what the VVD's for, if I remember correctly. The first question is whether the VVD is happy now. The second question is what will happen when the bill comes. Will the VVD say that it is so scandalous that it does not agree with it and will the cabinet then fall over, or will we now change the AMvB so that the bill does not have to be made? How's that gonna work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u99	This is an extensive interruption. Mrs Ouwehand's first question is whether the VVD is happy. I have given that ample consideration. We would have preferred it to be different, but a very broad majority of the VVD is the only exception that has chosen a different approach. The AMvB is there now. In the knowledge that this groundboundness is coming, we have said that you must therefore judge it in that way. Again, we would have preferred it to be different. However, what lies ahead is a balanced route. Entrepreneurs can expand. That's one. On the phosphate ceiling, phosphate production, I indicated earlier and again that this law does not govern the production of phosphate. I hear a lot of parties, and the Animal Party first, about the phosphate ceiling, but this law does not govern that. It's very simple. Whatever the percentage of soil density we use, this law does not control the phosphate ceiling. So let us take advantage of this Dutch innovation. I have asked questions about this, Mr Graus has raised it several times. It is crazy that Brussels is asking us to produce expensive fertilizer in the Netherlands, with all the environmental consequences of that, which I hear from Mrs Ouwehand on a regular basis, while we can extract valuable substances of this kind from the Dutch manure. And then we really do something about the phosphate ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u100	But the VVD will also have to accept, whether Mrs Lodder wants to look away from reality or not, that things are going the way they are going. You can ask for other solutions to deal with the nitrates directive and the derogation they have, but we are likely to lose the derogation if the prediction of CLM and other people who know about it comes out, namely that we are shooting through that phosphate ceiling, including as a result of this AMvB. So the question is whether the VVD will continue to pretend that its nose is bleeding and make it difficult for the Secretary of State to say that there is no other way and that there will be animal rights now. Is Mrs. Lodders going to play the murdered innocence here and get angry? I think it would be a good idea for this to be clear to the entrepreneurs as well. Where's it going?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u101	First of all, in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand, I would point out that the Act on Responsible Growth does not direct dairy farming and the impact of the AMvB on phosphate production. They're just about ground bonding, they don't control phosphate production. For this we have other instruments, such as the transport track and the circular hand. There are a number of examples of how to send it. There was then a comment on the phosphate ceiling and its attainment. Let us together, together with all the parties in this Chamber, move towards Brussels to reverse this madness. I would like the Animal Party to be at the forefront of this, because it concerns the Animal Party with some regularity about the environment and about sustainability, but I do not hear Mrs Ouwehand about that. In doing so, Mrs Ouwehand should now be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u102	Last four years, the groups of the VVD and the SP have worked very well together in the province of North Brabant. This is a very difficult province with regard to animal husbandry. The delegates of the VVD and the SP have achieved quite a bit there, they have set up a Brabant Carefulness Score Farming. They have actually achieved much more there than in the adjacent part of Limburg that looks the same. How is it that Yves de Boer and Johan van den Hout succeed, and that Mrs Lodder and I are so far apart? Are we just not lying together or is Mrs. Lodders part of a very rabid current within the VVD? I'm so surprised about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u103	It's not you, I understand!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u104	That is a statement made by the President. To answer this question, I suggest that Mr Smaling and I have a cup of coffee together for once. Maybe we can find out if we're together or not. But the essence of the difference is, in my opinion, what I mean is that I hear the SP speak of Lodder stables, as if it were all great. I've already responded to that. The difference between the SP and the VVD is that the VVD sees the dairy farming sector as an important economic pillar, a very important player when it comes to food security and food safety. I started with the fact that the Dutch dairy world is incredibly well written. Let's cherish that. I hear the SP Group through Mr Smaling on limiting this sector and reducing the number of animals. That is at the expense of the elements I have already mentioned. Another element I would like to mention here is, of course, employment. That too is very important for my group. This is often the case for the SP group when it comes to all kinds of other farms, but when it comes to agriculture, livestock farming, that argument does not seem to play any role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u105	Finalizing, Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u106	If we sit down, I think we can find each other very easily in terms of the efficiency and quality of chains, the cycle and the whole knowledge system in the Netherlands around dairy farming, but perhaps also wider. Mrs Lodders perseveres in facilitating a small group of extremely intensive companies. This does not fit in with the Dutch landscape and it does not substantially contribute to the added value of the sector. Let that go now and let us work as a larger group in this Chamber towards a high-quality, sustainable, future-proof sector, Mrs Lodders. That doesn't include the segment you're so committed to. How do I get you to understand that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u107	It is not just that segment on which Mr Smaling focuses, a very small category. I believe, on the contrary, that the focus should be on the whole dairy farming sector. The developments surrounding the expansion of the stables do not show that stables are placed next to them. No, this is about optimising the housing that is currently obsolete, with attention being paid to the environment, animal welfare and animal health. That calls for bigger stables. Let us please facilitate this and make it possible, and let us leave this sector to the test. There we know very well what is being done, because these are, after all, elements that are necessary for the management of business to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u108	The mantra of the VVD is that entrepreneurs should be given all the space and that Brussels is only bad. But that Brussels reality is a reality that we are dealing with. When I look at the AMvB that is ahead, I see that the risk is really high that we are shooting through the phosphate ceiling and that we are losing the derogation. That really is the reality from Brussels, and we have to deal with it, and we can find all kinds of things. What is the response of the VVD Group to that reality? Wouldn't it take much more to stay within that phosphate ceiling? If we shoot through that, the entrepreneurs for which the VVD claims to be right will not benefit at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u109	I think I have responded to this in sufficient detail in previous interruptions. I would like to know from Mrs Dik-Faber, it is not a use to ask a counter-question how this law, this AMvB and her amendment that was tabled during the treatment of the dairy law, steers phosphate production.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u110	No, we're not gonna ask any counter questions, so you're just gonna come up with your second question, Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u111	I have a number of motions for which I hope the VVD Group will support because I think they contribute well to the interests of all entrepreneurs. A short comment, which also includes my second question to the VVD Group. If the VVD says it stands for all entrepreneurs and if I look at what's ahead, it's a little bit: who comes first, first served. The intensive companies go first, the extensive companies close the queues. What does the VVD Group say to these extensive companies? Shouldn't they also have room within the entire system to continue to grow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u112	In my opinion, the AMvB does not distinguish between intensive and extensive companies that first come, first served. Entrepreneurs are able to expand within the framework of the General Measure of Governance. So no distinction is made between first come and first served. It is quite easy, also from the Christian Union's fraction, to put the VVD on the spot that the phosphate ceiling is being reached, but this law simply does not control phosphate production. Then we should have included in the AMvB that every entrepreneur is obliged, for example, to work via the KringloopWijzer or we should have laid down the transport track in certain laws and regulations. Then you send it to phosphate production. This law doesn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-4.u113	I'm suspending for lunch. At 12:30 we will listen to the answers of the Secretary of State.
