ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I would also like to welcome all the other people present in the Chamber and those who are following this debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you haven't paid out for more than two months and the bills pile up, it's not to be heard when it's said that there's "a difference in imaging between individual cases and the numbers" or that sort of thing. This was literally said during the general consultation. I don't think that does justice to all those people who are in trouble. It has been said in the debate that you should stop. It has been said that it is better to deal with it in a different way. But I think it's obvious that the Secretary of State doesn't want that. That's why I'll file a motion. In this context, the Secretary of State has said that there is room, but I would also like to record that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a significant delay in the payment of pgb salaries and declarations submitted;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate for the costs incurred in the absence of payment of pgb funds and to finalise them in the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u3	I would like to point out that this goes beyond what the Secretary of State says: I will take it with me and see if it is feasible. This assumes that costs will be compensated, but that we will look at how we are to deal with this. Everyone understands that there will be border cases, and I'll leave it to the Secretary of State to work that out. I believe that today we should adopt the principle that the group of people who now have bailiff fees or other costs should be compensated. The next motion that I have tabled speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a great deal of confusion, despair and irritation among the pgb-holders and caregivers as a result of overly rosy news reports and figures;]] [[noting that the figures received by the Court do not provide sufficient insight into the nature and extent of the problem of non-payment of salaries and declarations through the drawing right;]] [[calls on the government to send only correct and unambiguous figures to the Chamber and not to spread any more confusing messages in the media,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u4	I have one final comment to make on the last motion. I would rather not have any figures and a message from the Secretary of State that it is so uncomfortable that they are not there than figures about which all kinds of discussion immediately arises. I think we should stop doing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. While we were talking in the AO about the payout problems at the Social Insurance Bank and the words of the Secretary of State heard that everything is on the right track and that monthly wagers have been paid, the e-mails came in which showed the opposite. Even today I received an e-mail from Zorgboerderij Flevo-Zon in the Flevopolder to be very concrete. The e-mail says they don't know how to get through next month. A fellow institution of Flevo-Zon is considering quitting. This is a care facility for children with autism, also a care farm if I understand correctly. The CDA Group is deeply concerned. Last week I asked a large number of additional questions about the cause of this problem. What's the big deal? I'm hammering through on this because I think there's something fundamentally wrong with the Social Insurance Bank. The CDA Group wonders whether the existing ICT system can solve these problems. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that until now no comprehensive execution test has been carried out on the entire process and implementation of the drawing right by the SVB;]] [[noting that the implementation test provides an assessment of the feasibility, inter alia, of the right of draw ICT by the SVB and can provide solutions to possible ICT bottlenecks;]] [[Whereas this can provide an insight into structural solutions;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an implementation test in the field of ICT by an independent party and to inform the Chamber of the results of this study before 1 April 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u6	The CDA Group hopes that all of us will not fall into trap one step from the Elias Commission, namely to muddle on with an ICT system that does not work. It is of the utmost importance that ultimately the people get the money they worked for and that they need to pay the rent and the groceries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. We don't want to get muddled either. During the general consultations we have already asked for a temporary stop until all the problems have been resolved. We have not received a satisfactory response to this and I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of the right of draw by the SVB has led to enormous chaos;]] [[noting that this has a significant impact on budget holders and caregivers;]] [[Whereas this has affected the continuity of care and work;]] [[calls on the Government, immediately and until further notice, to cease the exercise of the right of draw and to re-introduce it only after all systems have been vetted and functioning properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u8	I have another motion. After the AO, I have received more reports about caregivers who are told that they will only be paid in March over the month of January, February and March. That motion calls for daily payouts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of the right of draw by the SVB led to a huge delay in payment;]] [[noting that this poses major problems for budget holders and caregivers;]] [[Whereas this has affected the continuity of care and work;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the SVB makes daily payouts without delay until there is no longer any delay,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gerbrands and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u9	Finally, I have another motion, which will undoubtedly be considered superfluous, but the signals we get are not in line with practice. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of the right of draw by the SVB led to a huge delay in payment;]] [[noting that it has been agreed to make payment even without a care agreement;]] [[Whereas this is not clear to SVB employees so far;]] [[invites the Government, as a matter of urgency, to ensure that the SVB makes the payment of the personalised budget without having a care agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. We have talked three times in a short time about people who are in great need because they are not paid out. It's about month laborers, about people who file declarations, who can't afford the care anymore. The need is enormous. It just doesn't seem like it's gonna be resolved in a very short time. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will now make every effort to come up with real solutions in the short term and not with new promises to achieve the best. That is not concrete enough. The Secretary of State has mentioned a number of plans, because he also wants to investigate how these problems have arisen. He wants to investigate what he can do to prevent us from having problems again in a moment, because they are structural in nature. He mentioned a recovery plan led by an independent director. He has talked about independent problem analysis or a system test. He also referred to an independent examination of the way in which decisions were taken. I would like to hear one more confirmation from the Secretary of State that these are indeed three independent investigations, all of which are carried out. I also wholeheartedly support Mrs Keijzer's motion to keep research into ICT in the short term, because it is necessary to have this in order to avoid new problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I think this was your last plenary performance. You replaced Mrs Voortman, who will return from maternity leave next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State stated during the AO that he had confidence in the approach. This is, of course, not just about trust in the approach, but about solving the problems. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various measures are being taken to improve the problems of the right of draw in the short term;]] [[noting that many budget holders and caregivers are still in trouble because data are not well in the system and wages are not paid;]] [[Whereas it is important to set a deadline, which places the same focus on all parties in the chain and is the highest priority in paying care providers;]] [[calls on the Government, on 1 April, to have the system in place in such a way that all the monthly wages can be paid and that the payment period of five to ten working days can be used for the declarations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u13	I have another question for the Secretary of State. In the debate we exchanged what the municipalities could do. Of course, everything that the municipalities are doing at the moment for the budget holders and the caregivers has the character of an emergency measure. Can the Secretary of State explain again what the municipalities can do, how long that period can last as far as he is concerned and what support the government could provide in this respect? It would be very helpful for us, as well as for the municipalities, if we were to be clear about this explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u14	This brings to an end the term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. He's still waiting for the text of one motion. I will suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. I will start with a number of questions and then proceed to the explanation of the motions. Mrs Leijten said that the debate talked about a difference in perception. I want to spell out that I didn't talk about a difference in imaging. I have said that there is a difference between the macro figures and what the budget holders themselves experience, which gives me cause to see whether things are going well through the eyes of the budget holder. In the debate, I have said on several occasions that it is of no use to us if we accept that it is going well on the basis of the macro figures, whereas it is not going well for a number of budget holders. It should go well for them, too. That is precisely why I said that, even if the macro figures are moving in the right direction, we cannot yet be satisfied or pretend that the problems have been solved. As long as budget holders experience problems, the problems are not solved. That's not imaging, but those are facts. These facts are presented by the budget holders and we take them very seriously. Mrs Leijten also made a comment on the figures. I've provided the figures the Chamber asked for. I remember a small debate which led to a further letter from me to the Chamber because the Chamber said it wanted to have certain figures. I then provided those figures. Then there was discussion. Do the numbers make sense? What's the deal, exactly? How do we proceed with that? I'm trying to get the numbers the Chamber is asking for and bring them to the Chamber. That is what we are discussing. Unless the Chamber doesn't want that anymore. For my part, I keep collecting the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u16	I specifically asked how many people were not paid after submitting an application after five or ten days. We get emails from many people in which they write that they have received nothing. The point is that we get figures showing that all the monthly wagers have been paid, and then our mailboxes explode. The same will undoubtedly happen at the Social Insurance Bank and at the Ministry, and that is not good. I would rather hear: we are not sure if everyone has been paid, but at least these people have been paid. That is, as far as I am concerned, a better communication. We are now in the third month. Some people have still not been paid, while it has been said that their payment will not come until the end of March. I do not think it is appropriate for these people to be told in the media that it is all resolved or is going to be resolved. Let us do that first and only then say that it is resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u17	At least I will continue to collect these figures for myself, because I want to follow the matter very closely. I can imagine Mrs Leijten saying that she does not want to receive reports or images of this every time. That is indeed up to the Chamber. Mrs Ellemeet asked me to comment on the various investigations. I'll try to make it simple one more time. There's actually four things going on. First of all, pay. The priority is to pay. That's what we're in the middle of right now. Second, recover. We leave the system to work in such a way that payments through the system are lawful and good. There are still a number of things that need to be done; we have agreed when they will come. Thirdly, improve. How can the system be further improved? This will require research, and sometimes independent judgements will be required. Fourthly, we are evaluating. That evaluation will also look at how it has gone, what we have learned from it, and whether an independent assessment can be made of it. Mrs Ellemeet is right that, in addition to paying, this is the three elements that can be distinguished separately and sometimes it may be necessary to have an independent judgement on them. My brief answer is therefore: yes, I can confirm that; they are separate parts on which separate investigations are also taking place. Mrs Dik-Faber asked what it means for the municipalities. I would like to pay particular attention to this in the recovery plan, which we are working on together with the municipalities and the health offices. I have already said that I can imagine that municipalities want to give advances to budget holders or help them in advance, which means that they will have to pay off later. I can imagine that. At the same time, I said in the debate that I would like to allow this period to be as short as possible. I would like to say to Mrs Dik-Faber that I want to discuss this with the municipalities in broad, i.e. with several municipalities, in order to see how we can come up with and support each other in the context of the recovery plan. So I think we're on the same track. I've come to give an explanation of the motions. In Mrs Leijten's motion to item No. 138 the government is invited to compensate for the costs associated with the absence of payments and to work out them in the shortest possible time. That is what we discussed in the debate. I said at that time that I understand that thought very well and that I want to look seriously at the hooks and eyes on them, and whether they can. I have promised to take the idea into account in the context of the recovery plan, which we will be discussing administratively in mid-March. I do not want to anticipate the conclusions that I want to draw on that basis. I promised Mrs Leijten that I would take this idea and be sympathetic to it in itself, but I really want to figure it out before I make any final comments on it. What is feasible and what is not feasible? Can't or can't? For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u18	There is a great deal of uncertainty in this dossier for people. It would be good to take them away in this area. Of course there are border cases and of course it must be feasible, but I think the principle is that we say: it is because of the government that you have not been paid for two months now and that you have bailiff fees or other costs to provide for your livelihood, and we compensate for those costs. That is the principle that I think we should express. And that it has to be worked out, that it has to be honest and that it has to be testable, I get that. I'll give the Secretary of State plenty of room for that, too. So I am looking for a wording that the Secretary of State can live with, but with which we can also give a little more certainty to the people who are now watching this debate, which is not only being looked at as to whether it is feasible, but that we are going to do it in principle and work it out further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u19	This "doing in principle" also raises the question of whether it is feasible. What's all this about? Are you sure you can make these relationships? I made a commitment in the debate that I am looking at this seriously and that I take the idea into account in my report on the recovery plan. I ask the Chamber whether that can be enough to give me the opportunity to find out very well. So I'm sticking to my judgment at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u20	In reply to Mona Keijzer's parliamentary questions, it was simply said that municipalities will be compensated for the implementation costs they incur because of the right to draw. In addition, that could be said. In addition, there will also be differences in interpretation between the Empire and the municipalities as to whether or not something comes through the execution of the drawing right. But that has been promised and I wonder why this cannot be done for the budget holders. Isn't there a wording that the Secretary of State can say: okay, so this motion supports policy? Then I can withdraw her, but then we have that commitment, which is a little harder than: I take it with me and I look at the feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u21	In the context of the recovery plan, I would like to promise that I will pay explicit attention to the question of whether and to what extent compensation is possible in the event of damage caused by late payments. I have already promised that I will explicitly include this in the recovery plan. I would not go beyond this commitment. In the Leijten motion on part No. 139 the government is asked to send only correct and unambiguous figures to the Chamber and no longer to spread confusing messages in the media. I would advise against that motion. Firstly, we have provided the figures requested by the Chamber itself. Secondly, Mrs Leijten talks about confusing reports in the media. It is clear from the debate that she refers to the reports that appeared in the newspapers when we spoke about them. Nothing more and nothing less has happened than that the agreements we have made with Per Balance and the small healthcare providers that the Chamber has received have been distributed in this way. Nothing else. So for that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. Then there's the motion Keijzer-Ellemeet in part No. 140, inviting the government to have an implementation test in the field of ICT carried out by an independent party and to inform the Chamber of the results of this study before 1 April 2015. Let's see if we can get together. In the context of that execution test in the future, we are already investigating in my own words whether the system is robust enough to be able to make the next stroke. There are two aspects to this. The first is whether the system is robust enough to do what it does now. The second is whether it will also be robust enough for the additional requirements we may have to improve the system. That's what we're investigating right now. If I were to interpret the motion in such a way that, in the context of the recovery plan that will also appear around that time, I would be able to live with the motion, in the sense that I would ask Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Ellemeet to hold the motion until they have seen the results. Then we can indeed look at these two aspects before then and then vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u22	This sounds good in itself. Does the Secretary of State mean by "robust enough" that the system should do what it is intended to do: checking agreements, ensuring timely and correct payment and combating fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u23	Yes, but there are two aspects to "robust." First of all, it does what it has to do now. Secondly, we are going to look at the improvements that need to be made in the future. Then we also need to look at whether the system is robust enough to carry those future improvements. Mrs Keijzer's question refers to the first aspect. I would like to make a commitment to this in the recovery plan. Then I'm sure she'll have an image of it. I would ask her to hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u24	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u25	At the request of Mrs Keijzer, I propose her motion (25657, No. 140). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u26	Then I have the Gerbrands motion in part No. 141 in which the government is asked to stop implementing the right of draw and to re-introduce it once everything has been vetted. We have indeed discussed this extensively in the debate. My opinion is that it would not be in the interests of the budget holders. The importance of these budget holders, which we have at the forefront, is that they should be paid out as soon as possible. Stopping the system now or changing it doesn't make it possible to pay faster. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then there is the Gerbrands/Keijzer motion in part No. 142 in which the Government is requested to ensure that the SVB makes daily payouts with immediate effect, until there is no further delay. Declarations are made on a daily basis. Month laborers have fixed pay-out times. Additional moments have also been added to catch up. That's what I reported on. The rapid response team is also paid daily. Since I consider the motion to be superfluous in that sense, I would like to discourage the motion on that point. In the Gerbrands motion in part No. 143 the Government is requested to ensure that the Social Insurance Bank makes the payment of the pgb without having a health care contract. Mrs. Gerbrands predicted my judgment a little bit. In the case of emergency measures, we have already agreed that payments can also be made if there is no approved healthcare agreement. In order to meet her, I would like to mention once again to the Social Insurance Bank that this is an explicit request from the Chamber. But this is the instruction there is. That is why I would like to declare the motion superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u27	I'll settle for that promise. I'll hold the motion. If there are signs that things are not going well again, I can put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u28	At the request of Mrs Gerbrands, I propose her motion (25657, No. 143). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u29	Finally, we have the motion by Mr Dik-Faber on part No. 144 in which the government is requested to have the system in place before 1 April in such a way that all the monthly wages can be paid and that the payment period for the declarations can be used from five to ten working days. On the one hand, we have taken emergency measures to be able to pay quickly and, on the other hand, we have made provision for cases where this is not the case. Mrs Dik-Faber and I share the view that all this must be done through the system as soon as possible. But it has turned out that for the emergency measure at least I need a rapid response. Then we can intervene where that does not threaten to be the case. I can imagine that we are sharing this ambition, which is why I want to commit to this in the recovery plan, which we are making and discussing with the administrative partners in mid-March, much better to indicate whether we need another rapid response team to collect all the data, or whether we still need facilities to ensure that people are paid on time. For this reason, I would like to suggest to the author that this motion be retained until we can look at the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u30	Does this mean that the Secretary of State does not embrace this motion and implicitly says that he is not going to meet the deadline of 1 April, that the situation is not yet in order and that the rapid response team is still very much needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u31	No, it's not. I don't want to rule on it until I'm sure. However, all efforts are aimed at ensuring that this process is carried out in such a way that it all takes place through regular channels and deadlines. We have put in place emergency measures and a rapid response team in order to prevent those payments from happening for whatever reason. We have a recovery plan to get it right in the system. I think that with the priority for payments plus the recovery plan focused on the system, I can make a genuinely substantiated statement on whether it is feasible or not. All efforts are aimed at making this feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u32	The Secretary of State himself sent a letter to the Chamber in which he wrote that the payments to the monthly wages were in order and that he met the deadlines for declarations of 1%. Surely the deadline of 1 April is reasonable? I understand that there is still a rapid response team to mediate with a complicated system in a single situation. But for practically everyone else, it has to be in order on April 1st, right? There's such a great need in the country. The Secretary of State can't leave this hanging over the market, can he? He can't say he doesn't want to confirm a term, can he? It just needs to be in order on April 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u33	All the measures taken are aimed precisely at achieving this. At the same time, we concluded in the Chamber together that these production figures are good, but that individuals still indicate that it is not working for them yet. That is why we have taken additional measures and set up a rapid response team. I, like Mrs Dik, want to ensure, as soon as possible through the regular channels, that monthly wages are paid and that the declaration period of five to ten days can be used. That's what I want. I want to be able to guarantee that this will take place in the normal system. If Mrs Dik asks me whether this is ready on 1 April, I can only say: I hope so. The recovery plan is aimed at enabling me to report to the Chamber whether it succeeds or not. I'd like to make commitments that I can keep. I want to make sure you're okay. It is no use to the Chamber if I say that it will, when I have to say that this is not the case. We should no longer be discussing the figures. We have just changed that again. We share the ambition and everything is aimed at it. We can indicate in the recovery plan to what extent this is feasible and whether a rapid response team is still needed. That is why I am asking for the motion to be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me your permission, because this is the most important motion of the debate. The question is when the problems have been solved. If the Secretary of State can't promise on April 1st, can he promise on May 1st? Then I would ask Mrs Dik whether she would like to turn it into 1 May and we can vote for this motion as a whole. We can then say that it took four months to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u35	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u36	This is not a negotiation process on the date on which this can be completed. I'd rather it was done the day before yesterday. I've said that before. That is why we have taken a number of measures together: emergency measures and the establishment of a rapid response team. I said that we must ensure that this can be achieved as effectively as possible in the regular process and that this requires a recovery plan. I told the Chamber that we are going to sit around the table with parties to make that recovery plan and that we hope that we will be able to discuss it administratively in mid-March. I will then be able to submit to the Chamber what the path is, whether we have succeeded or need time to do so, and when we can put an end to the rapid response team. Better the day before yesterday than tomorrow, but I can only say that things are in order if I can justify them well and I can tell you how things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u37	The Secretary of State apologized to the pgb-holders a month ago. A month later, he announced the need for a recovery plan because it was not yet in order. Now we're asking for a tough deadline. The Secretary of State can't give it to him. I find that sad and embarrassing!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u38	We have discussed how we can promote priority payments as soon as possible. To this end, we have taken a number of emergency measures. We have agreed, in agreement with the Court, that these emergency measures are fine and that priority must be given to payment, but also that the system must operate in such a way that it can be paid as well and as quickly as possible through that system in accordance with the deadlines. We are now working on this and I have said that I want to agree with parties in mid-March on the recovery plan from emergency measures to regular proceedings. That seems to me to be the best way to be able to give the Chamber good reason when the matter is in order or not. I want to make commitments that I can keep as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u39	In the three debates we have had on this subject, I asked the Secretary of State for payment. I have not received a single answer to my question. Now there's a motion in front of it. I would say to the Secretary of State: embrace that motion, see her as a stick behind the door and get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u40	This Secretary of State does not need a stick behind the door to stand up for the interests of the budget holders and place the priority on payments. Now it is asked when the system is in order so that payment can be made within the specified deadlines. I would like to answer that question as well as I can. I have already said when I think I can do this. This seems to me to be the best way to solve the problems of the budget holders. I do not want to mention a date to discuss it with each other. I would like to state the state of play, when it is in order and what improvements will be made. That's what I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-6.u41	We shall vote in ten minutes on the motions tabled.
