ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. After two extensive written rounds, this Chamber will today take stock of the proposal for a law on higher education. Preliminary draft: the CDA Group is not responsible for borrowing to finance a study. The current system is also partly based on offering students the opportunity to borrow from the government for their studies. In the recent past, my party also supported the introduction of a loan system in the master phase as well as the withdrawal of a long-term scholarship fine. In doing so, it has always kept an eye on the reasonableness and proportionality of the measures to be introduced. In addition, it has always ensured that these measures include sufficient incentives for students to graduate nominally. Unfortunately, the present legislative proposal is completely inadequate in these areas. My group also attaches great importance to combating the culture of six and further improving the quality of higher education. It is of the utmost importance that our higher education can continue to match that in other countries. On these points, too, the legislative proposal falls short. For example, it is completely unclear which improvements in the quality of higher education will be made. It is also unclear what investments will be made in this respect. Warranties are missing. To stay in the spirit of this bill: in our opinion, the Minister should do her homework again. The fact that we are not a priori opposed to borrowing for our own study is without prejudice to the fact that we have always insisted on a system in which the financing of the study is not primarily dependent on debt-taking. Incentives should be created, for example, for parents and grandparents to save tax incentives for the study of their children and grandchildren. The former Silver Fleet regime was a good example of this. Students should not be burdened with high student debts, but should preferably be able to fall back on the resources spared by their parents and grandparents for that purpose during their studies. Parents have their own responsibility in this matter. Student grants should be available as a safety net for students who cannot fall back on their parents or for whom the parents do not want to take responsibility. Finally, the granting of loans to public authorities for the financing of study costs is acceptable provided that such loans are granted on reasonable terms. In the present legislative proposal, taking on a study loan from the government is not the last option, but the point of departure. With the exception of the supplementary scholarship, no link is made with the income situation of the parents. The basic grant will be cancelled completely and the tax deduction of study costs for the students who lose the basic grant will also be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr Essers may still be on it, but does he think that the possibility of parents and grandparents to save up for the study of their children and grandchildren will also lapse?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u4	No, but I would argue that this possibility should be given more encouragement. In the fiscal sphere, there should be guarantees that, given the low returns at the moment, this debt instrument will ultimately be a very good investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u5	This would perhaps be a good proposal for the Tax Plan or something, but it does not necessarily have to do with this law, as I understand Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u6	No, but I would like to point out that the starting point must be that the study should be financed by its own resources, funds set aside by parents. Tax concessions should be provided for this. Only then will there be an opportunity to borrow. Now we turn it around; now borrowing is the starting point. What, according to the government, are the main arguments for this bill? First of all, the fact that this bill generates an annual revenue of 640 million. According to the government, this return will be invested in improving the quality of higher education by, among other things, increasing the number of contact hours between student and teacher, excellence pathways, increasing student guidance, and offering international study opportunities and other forms of education. Moreover, due to the expiry of the basic grant, students whose parents have sufficient income and ability to contribute to the cost of study will no longer receive a basic grant in the future. If, despite sufficient income or wealth, parents do not want to jump in, students can always borrow. This will save public resources that can be used to improve the quality of higher education. A third argument pro is that for children of parents with an income below modal, the supplementary scholarship is extended by about €100 to a maximum of €365.33 per month. Finally, there are flexible loan conditions. For example, the maximum repayment period is 35 years, the remaining debt is cancelled at the end of the repayment period, the redemption obligation only applies from the statutory minimum wage, and no more than 4% of the additional income above that minimum wage is to be used for redemption. Moreover, it is only two years after graduation that the refund has to be started and there are possibilities for flexible and early repayment. The I.V. card remains in place. In the opinion of the CDA Group, these alleged arguments are subject to the necessary real objections. One of its main objections to this legislative proposal is that its main objective is precisely to jeopardise the improvement of the quality of higher education by means of this bill, namely the expected impact of the introduction of the loan system. The expectation is that students will take more jobs in order to earn extra income in order to avoid additional loans due to the loss of the basic grant. Especially if this extra work has nothing to do with the study, it will be at the expense of that study. At the very least, there is a risk of delay in study. This is further encouraged by the loss of the maximum income to be earned. The distinction between home-staying and expatriating students is also dropped. As a result, more time is wasted on traveling and there is less time left for study-related activities in their own university city. The government leaves the search for a balance between study and work entirely to the individual consideration of each student. This also applies to the choice between additional earning or additional borrowing. The government believes, on the basis of the current situation, that students can handle this choice well. However, we believe that the balance between work and study in the current system is all too often distorted to the detriment of study time. In addition, the current situation is different from the situation following the introduction of the loan system. There is therefore a greater chance that this balance will be disturbed even further if the basic grant falls. My estimate is that this will put the government's intention of achieving contact hours, inter alia, between student and teacher and studying abroad, under heavy pressure. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. What will it do to prevent costly study time from being lost if students earn more to compensate for the lost basic grant? A related objection is that the legislative proposal does not provide for a reduction of the repayment obligation in nominal graduation and/or in achieving a very good figure average. According to the government, this would be at the expense of the resources available to invest in improving the quality of higher education. However, every month a student studies extra costs the government money. Nominal or nominal study well, stimulates quality in groups and saves money because the student is shorter at the university. In other words, an obvious incentive to improve the use of scarce collective resources and to counter the culture of six is blocked, as this incentive would generate less money to improve the quality of education. The members of the CDA Group strongly support the establishment of such a link. I would like a response from the Minister. Opposite the increase in the additional scholarship by €100, the disappearance of the basic grant, which is €286,15 for residents. As a result, students living out of residence are already declining €186,15 per month. In addition, many children of low middle-income parents are just not eligible for this supplementary grant. DUO looks at the income of both parents and then informs the parents of the amount they are expected to contribute per month to their child's study, if that child grants DUO permission to check whether he or she is eligible for an additional scholarship. Now that the basic grant falls away, this expected contribution of the parents automatically goes up. After all, the child has less income. This means that many parents who first had sufficient income to finance their child's study do not have it anymore, while their child does not receive an additional scholarship. In view of this, the impact of the disappearance of the basic grant is greatest in the case of middle incomes. This will be added to the further income-dependent austerity of care, child care and living facilities. These austerities affect middle incomes more than proportionally, while at the same time this group is faced with increasing collective burdens. I also refer to the opinion of the Council of State on the 2015 Millions Note. The Council of State points out that the effects of technical developments affect employment in the middle groups in particular. All this seems, according to the Council of State, "to indicate in many ways inconsiderable and worrying development, particularly affecting the coming generations of the middle groups." I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In our view, a major shortcoming of this legislative proposal is that no firm (legal) certainty is offered that the planned investments in improving the quality of higher education will actually be made and exactly what these investments will look like. The government does not want to create a separate investment agenda for the income from the loan system, but wants to include it in the strategic agenda to be written later this year. We think it is a major shortcoming of this legislative proposal that this agenda is not currently available. This means that today this Chamber is being asked to vote in favour of this far-reaching bill, which puts many young people in a higher debt position, without any certainty as to what will happen to the revenues. There are already strong rumours that the promises made by the institutions to invest in quality improvement in anticipation of the draft law are already soft. Can the Minister comment on the level of reliability of these commitments? To what extent are these commitments actually included in the budgets of these institutions? It is also unclear how it is ensured that investment in higher education will actually benefit students and, for example, will not be spent on all kinds of management functions or on research support matters. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In addition, in the reply, the government is very shy about ensuring the measures promised to improve the quality of education. For example, it is not clear whether this aspect is included in future visitation and accreditation procedures. We ask the Minister once again for a clear statement on this matter. In the opinion of the CDA Group, the right of approval proposed in this legislative proposal for students on the main lines of the budget leads to unnecessary bureaucracy and delays in decision-making procedures rather than to a genuine guarantee of additional investment in improving the quality of education. How does the Minister view this? For budgetary reasons, the government also maintains a very low transitional regime. According to the bill, there is a cohort guarantee: students who are already in the bachelor's phase retain the right to the current maximum three-year study funding. However, if they are going to do the master's, they will be covered by the new system of the study advance. This is contrary to the strong link that exists in higher education between the Bachelor's and Master's phase. There is no student who chooses only to do the bachelor's degree when starting his studies at the university. Moreover, this is contrary to current practice that you can already get the basic grant for the master phase in the fourth bachelor year. According to the Minister, in the further reply, "the majority of (emerging) students would be aware of the fact that the study funding is going to change." However, a survey conducted in January 2015 by FNV Jong, LAKS and JOB among 1,365 students, MBO, HBO and WE students shows that current and future generations of students still have a great deal of ignorance about the consequences of the loan system. All the more ignorance about what would happen, of course there was at the time of the submission of this bill and certainly at the start of the study. This also indicates the unreasonableness of the transitional right. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. We also ask her to comment on the results of the survey mentioned above. Does the Minister agree with us that the fundamental principle of legal certainty, which is so much guaranteed by this Chamber, cannot and cannot be set aside by budgetary arguments even in this case? Another major concern with us is the negative impact this bill will have on the accessibility of higher education. As a result of this proposal, the Central Planning Bureau expects a decrease of 2% in the number of HBO and WE students, or 2,700 students per year. This plays an important role in the fear of many students to have a high student debt after graduation, while there is no guarantee of a job with a good income. The government assumes that this effect will be eliminated after a few years. Nevertheless, it will monitor the influx effects. However, it is not clear when exactly the Minister is going to intervene. Is that in the event of a decline of more than 2%, more than 5% or more than 10%? And what period should this effect have occurred before the Minister intervenes: after one year, after two years, after five years? That is all completely unclear now. I would now like clarification from the Minister. In addition, the Minister repeatedly points out, as an accomplished mortgage consultant, the flexible conditions attached to the loan system. However, it will end up in a gap. Due to the flexible loan conditions, students are tempted to incur as many student debts as possible. However, this is again at odds with the same government's desire that citizens should be cautious about debt-taking; see the recent problems in the housing market, the adjustments in mortgage interest rate deductions and the tightening of the conditions under which banks provide loans. These are all measures aimed at reducing public debt. How does the Minister explain this contradiction in government policy? Since it is not always the case that studying guarantees a job with a high salary, not only are graduates at risk of over-indebtedness, but there is also a serious future recovery risk for the State. What does the Minister think of this and what is she going to do to reduce this risk? In addition, the introduction of the study advance is very expensive for studies with a two-year master's degree. These are all beta and research masters, as well as all university teacher training courses. Medical and mostly theological masters are even three years old. It is clear that in such cases the study debt is likely to be much higher than the average loan debt. Working alongside the study to prevent borrowing will lead to study delay and complicates the education process based on many contact hours and long-term internships. There is a fear that this will reduce the choice of such studies in the future. This brings this bill into conflict with another government objective, namely to promote the influx into technical training and to eliminate the shortage of teachers in science. But also in general, this government wishes to see more university-educated teachers. In doing so, she thought that university teachers are not the best paid academics, so easy reimbursement of the student loan is not an argument either. What is the Minister's view on this? What impact does this proposal have on the objective of the Science and Technology Master Plan, drawn up by the nine top sectors in cooperation with the government, which, by 2025, has received as much as 40% of all graduates in science and technology training and the equally urgent and ambitious objective that, as part of this ambition, at least 40,000 more beta-technological people are to be attracted by training and side-influx per year over a longer period of time? Isn't it obvious for these cases that such masters will be able to forgive the student debts over one or more years? I would like to hear the Minister's response, which hopefully goes beyond the reply in which a higher student debt is somewhat trivialized for this group of students and which states that these students are relatively strongly guided by a substantive motivation. According to the Minister, investments in a multi-annual master's programme would also generally be well reimbursed. Does the Minister really think that this argument will remove the concern of potential students for significantly higher student debts? Here again, the Minister announces that she will monitor. But when exactly will it do so and when will it intervene? Monitoring should be taken seriously and should not be a tissue for bleeding. Another question is how this law relates to the promotion of part-education. To what extent, according to the Minister, does this law promote the government's objective of providing more space for part-education and lifelong learning? Not only the basic grant disappears, but also the tax deduction possibilities for study costs are abolished in cases where there is a right to regular study funding. In fact, students are partly burdened with double taxation: the expenses incurred by them themselves for training or studies for the acquisition of income from work and housing are no longer deductible, while they will soon be "normally" taxed progressively on their gross labour income after their studies. The abolition of tax-deductibility opportunities is particularly hard on private colleges of higher education where there is free education, while the vast majority of the revenue from this bill is for the benefit of funded education. Calculations show that the removal of the tax deduction in these cases can lead to high tax increases. According to calculations by the Dutch Training and Training Council, the removal of the tax deduction results in an average disadvantage of more than €5,000 per year of study, based on a tuition fee of €14,500 and costs for teaching materials of €1,200. A charge increase of €5,000. Maintaining the deduction in one form or another for this category of students would avoid these consequences. In our view, such income effects are too important to seriously suggest solutions to these problems with simplicity arguments. I'd like a clear response from the Minister. The attractive loan terms have another counterproductive effect. Parents with high incomes and abilities could encourage their children to make maximum use of loan opportunities. The return on the money thus held in equity which would otherwise be invested in the children's study is expected to be higher than the cost of the study advance. The disappearance of the basic grant does not necessarily mean that parents who can pay it will always compensate for the lapse of the basic grant with their own resources. On the other hand, children from low-earning families are relatively expected to abandon a study due to their loan version. In short, parents' students who can afford it may be able to borrow more than students with parents who can't afford it. How does the Minister feel about this? Mr. Chairman. We are always talking about improving the quality of education. I'd love to! We can also talk about a loan system. But as far as we are concerned, this bill is wrong. The balance of arguments pro and contra clearly goes in the direction of the arguments counter. That's gonna have to be different. We look forward to the Minister's reply to our questions. We have not yet given up all hope. We are in a positive position in life, and we are happy to be surprised by this minister, but for the time being we believe that she really needs to do her homework again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. We're just getting started, and I see they're throwing stuff at us right now. That promises something for this day. In April 2010, former Minister Veerman presented a report on the future of higher education to Demissionary State Secretary Van Bijsterveldt. Not only were both CDA prominents enthusiastic about that report; they were sobbing each other in the arms. It was also widely welcomed in the field and in politics. The report concludes that substantial investment in higher education is absolutely necessary to maintain and strengthen the Dutch position in international competition. The Committee did not exclude a shift between public and private contributions. The latter now happens with this bill. The government thus also gives shape to the agreements in the National Educational Agreement. In this regard, the government and the education sector have committed themselves to the commitment that the investments resulting from the reform of study funding will be used for measures contributing to improving the quality of higher education. My group would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer to the written questions. During the preparation of this debate, she greatly appreciated the cooperation with the fellow spokesmen in this Chamber and also with the school organisations and students. I would also like to mention the expert meeting organised by the SP and the CDA and the presence of colleagues from those parties during the debate on this bill organised by VVD and LSVb. At the start of my speech, I would like to say a few words about the commitment of the two student organisations ISO and LSVb, which are also present here. For more than three decades they have been the "voice" of studying the Netherlands, in word and deed, at the negotiating table, in the corridors of the Second and First Chambers or at the Malieveld, which was sometimes almost full. Apart from the outcome of today's debate, I would like to express my appreciation for the way in which ISO and LSVb feed and drive the social debate on the loan system despite the fact that they strongly disagree with the legislative proposal we are discussing today. Without friction no shine! I assume that all of us, the young people first, share the need for investment in higher education. That's our common starting point. The differences of opinion lie in the answer to the question of how these investments should be paid. For my group, the importance of investing in education according to Veerman and the way in which this bill provides for it is gaining from the alternatives. What are these alternatives? Dismantling investment or even cutting back on education, which some electoral programmes propose as a clear solution? Veerman explicitly betrays it. Raise the tuition fee? No one wants to. Financing the investments from raising the collective burden or increasing the public debt? My group is opposed to such a loan system. It would mean that the most promising, highly educated and later most earning group would be left out of the picture in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u8	I would like to talk to Mr Bruijn about the context he is now setting out, the context that has arisen since the report of the Veerman Committee. The committee has indeed said that more investment is needed in education. What did we see after that? Discounts at the universities. We already have a long history of increasing college and institutional fees. The price of our higher education is certainly up to the mark; that is to say, it is already considerable. If you say that we can also make a shift, actually towards a student's tax, and that an alternative, namely raising public debt, is not acceptable to you, I do protest a bit against that sketch of the situation. This bill will increase public debt by 17 billion. I find it amazing that the VVD is actually being rather light about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u9	I take note of that and I think I shall begin by continuing my speech. I will come to the accessibility and the consequences. So I will come back to the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u10	I therefore dispute your outline of the situation, and I would also like an explicit answer to the question of how you will be responsible for the increase in public debt of 17 billion. That answer may therefore come in the course of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u11	It's very simple: if you want to invest 1 billion in education structurally, you have to finance it from something. If we agree that that money has to go to education, that is the starting point. Looking at the rich budget, there are only a few buttons you can play and a few jars where you can get the money out of. You can increase taxes; that will slow down the economy and will cost this generation jobs. You can raise the state debt further by an additional 1 billion a year. The public debt that this generation of us will inherit is already EUR 420,000 million and amounts to EUR 50 million a day; we are not in favour of that. You can also spread the burden across all the Dutch. That is what this cabinet does, and that seems to us to be the most reasonable option, especially if the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. I'll get back to you on that. My group is therefore opposed to a system of borrowing which increases public debt. This would mean that the most promising, highly educated and later most earning group would not be taken into account in this respect. And that at a time when everyone has to tighten the belt to put things in order. This cabinet is making the strongest shoulders bear the toughest burdens, as shown by the analysis of the economic effects of the financial framework of the government agreement, i.e. of the overall package, of which this is a component from December 2012. For the lovers: I'm talking about figure 5.2, on page 18. Just those most promising among our young people should be proud to be able to contribute to better education and thus to economic growth and future prosperity of their own generation. The OECD report, published a few weeks ago, highlights the dangers of excessive socio-economic differences between the least well-off and the middle layer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u12	I have just pointed out in my contribution that the shoulders in "the strongest shoulders the heaviest" are often the shoulders of middle-income parents. Especially if they earn a little more than morale, they will make a much greater contribution because of this system. So I do not see very soon how this idea of capacity is well reflected in this legislative proposal. Parents with a high income will say to their children: go borrow as much as possible, because we have a higher return on our own capital than what borrowing costs. So I do not see that connection with the principle of carrying capacity so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u13	I understand that, but that is because Mr Essers is not looking at the overall package. The 2012 government agreement, of which this overall package is part, shows that the average Dutchman is turning in about 1% purchasing power structurally to get the Netherlands out of the crisis, to make sure that we can stop borrowing, to go towards a budget balance and not to increase the burden. This calculation of the overall coalition agreement also shows that the lowest earners with the lowest purchasing power as a total group are making some progress, about 0.5% structural, and that the highest earners are falling by about 3%. It's got the loan system in it. Those with the highest purchasing power and the highest education, i.e. those in the most promising group, will deliver on average 1% structuralally within the next generation. You might even say that's little, but let's call that "reasonable." In any case, within the overall package, this does not deviate at all. In fact, it would be very strange not to consider the most promising group. In this way, therefore, the strongest shoulders bear the most serious burdens, but Mr Essers must of course look at the overall package and not pick a few things out of it, as he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u14	I am looking at the overall package and the increase in the burden on middle incomes, which adds to the impact of this bill. The Council of State has also pointed out that it is extremely worrying that middle incomes are increasingly declining.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr Essers is asking the same question again, and I am therefore giving the same answer. Of course, you can zoom in on a subject. That's always easy. I can also look at his election program, at the credit transfers by the Central Planning Bureau in Keuzes in Map of 2012 and at the point clouds. In that case, there are people who are down 10%, including those who benefit. That's true in all programs. So I'm looking at the whole package, which this is part of. I am looking at the pass-through to which Mr Essers rightly refers. So I share his concern, because I too think that we should look at that. It would then appear that, on the basis of the overall coalition agreement, the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens. The least well-off people are making some progress on the basis of the overall coalition agreement. Those with the strongest shoulders are the ones who are the most backward. This is part of it. If you pick a part of it, I can also do it on the other side, of course, you can preview quite different effects, but I think you should look at the total package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u16	I think this is a curious statement by Mr Bruijn, because I think he is not looking at the whole package. He looks at the overall financial picture, but he does not look precisely at the effects mentioned by Mr Essers, for example on middle incomes. Mr Bruijn is not looking at what this measure means for the entire knowledge of our country. Education isn't just something you're going through to look for the best paid job later, is it? Isn't education something that our entire society carries and our total prosperity comes from? Then why would you put that burden on just one group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u17	I welcome Mrs Gerkens' question. I have seen that the SP in the Lower House supported the motion to implement Veerman's recommendations. So we agree that at least we have to get money here. A cut of 800 million on education, as advocated by the SP in its election programme, does not seem to me to be the way to reduce the drop-out. For the time being, therefore, I believe that this is a very reasonable way to improve education for all, to spread the burden evenly among everyone, including among the most promising and well-earned groups, and in particular to prepare education for the future. Furthermore, I am going to go into the question of accessibility in detail later. So perhaps we can continue this exchange of views later, but I would, of course, be delighted to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr Bruijn is objecting to the fact that the SP cuts 800 million in its electoral programme. We do not; we cut 1 billion and we cut down on the management layer. This represents 8% of the staff. We are cutting back 5% on that overhead and we are reinvesting that cut in education. That would have been an option, but I did not hear Mr Bruijn mention that option. I regret that, because there are opportunities within the budget to improve the quality of education, as the SP would have liked to have done with its 2015 counter-budget of 450 million, which no other party has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u19	Then it is very special that, for example, in the paragraph starting on page 48 of the credit transfers by the Central Planning Bureau, in Keuzes in Map 2012, it says that the net effects of the overall package of the Education chapter in the SP programme are dangling in comparison with the programmes somewhere below. So we have to go through the budget again now or at another time, but for the time being, that is the effect that has been calculated by the Central Planning Office, which has allowed you to calculate your programme on a voluntary basis. I also share the importance you attach to good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mrs Gerkens, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u21	The explanation is very simple: the Central Planning Bureau works with certain models and has not calculated that this is removed from the management layer. The CPB didn't want to do that; the CPB didn't accept that. So the CPB transfer is different from ours. Ours looks a lot brighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u22	That's very good news. I am curious about Mrs Gerkens' contribution and about the precise recalculation and calculation of the whole package, because if that is better, of course we must choose to do so. The OECD report, published a few weeks ago, points to the dangers of excessive social disparities between the least well-off and the middle layer. Now this is not the place for a treatise on the merits of the meritocracy, although I too, like you, chairman, must undoubtedly immediately think of the book by Michael Young from 1958, by the way, a very good year. However, among the least well-off are at least the most low-skilled and unemployed. The OECD report therefore calls for investment in education, which is done with this bill, and for economic growth and jobs. We do not achieve this growth, these jobs, by increasing the burden of collective burdens or the burden of public debt. Our young people, who this is all about, will not want to choose for it either. A study brings a lot of benefits to society and to the student himself. Some, including in this Chamber, ask attention that the student is not an investor and that studying is not initially a business case; I also look at the PvdA group. I agree. A student is not initially an investor and studying is not initially a business case. Indeed, it is a matter of individual development; it is an important liberal starting point for society as a whole to have the socio-cultural and economic value. The Telder Foundation has recently developed its importance in a very readable writing about Bildung. I refer to great classical liberal thinkers like Von Humboldt and John Stuart Mill. But students themselves have raised concerns that, let's say, are of a different dimension and that are about finance. And if we take these students seriously, and we do that, just with this bill, then we need to look into those concerns. And then we see, according to the CBS, the income of highly educated people is almost twice as high as that of people without higher education. And as the expert consultation organised by CDA and SP showed: about the only thing the experts agree on is that the choice of a study after the introduction of this bill still pays off, also in the economic sense. According to CHEPS, study per year results in a return of 8% to 12% on working life. If you can then borrow that money at a significantly lower rate, then the consideration to be made for the average ho-fähige scholar must be done and it does not require an excessive neuron-tight brain nor a particularly complex education, a clever investor or a complicated business case. 200% minus 1% of that is still 198% of the income if you don't go to college. A large part of the more than a thousand questions asked in the House of Representatives about this bill dealt with this issue. According to some, a social loan system leads young people to be burdened with enormous debts for the rest of their lives. Others feared that young people "from fear of borrowing" would abandon a study. This led to a large number of investigations and reports. The various studies show that participation in higher education is not price sensitive and that increasing the own contribution has a limited and temporary impact on accessibility. Figures from the 2010 Nibud already show that students are not so much afraid of borrowing as of borrowing. As this lendivity sublimates to a large extent in the consumer context, a shift to investment may well have a didactic effect. According to the CPB, last week, access to education in the Netherlands is well regulated, including for the lower socio-economic classes. And that accessibility does not change, according to research organisation CHEPS, by the introduction, or rather the return, of a loan system. The SCP has also found from research that no student has any doubts or renounces a study by the loan system. They're too smart for it. The same applies to schoolchildren from low-income families. Traditional participation patterns tend to recover rapidly. On the basis of international experience, the CPB estimated a temporary decrease in participation of around 2%, i.e. for HBO and WE together 2,700 per year. If the students mentioned by the CPB who will temporarily cease to be influxes fall within the group of 13,000 HBO and 2,000 WE students who would have fallen out in the first year anyway, and that is not ruled out, even by the CPB, then this legislative proposal represents an important step towards a more conscious choice of study. This can only be established in retrospect. Of course, you can't start polling with the question of whether someone's gonna be a fallout later. The VVD Group therefore thanks the Minister for her commitment in the reply that it will map this and the impact on participation in extracurricular activities such as years of administration. My group calls on the Minister to inform this Chamber of the findings on this matter. I'd like a commitment. By the way, the VVD understands that a numerically unacceptable dropout limit cannot be set, which was discussed in the written round without an understanding of the nature of the dropout, for example, if it were to some extent the people who are already failing; the point made by Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u23	I totally agree that the choice of whether or not to study is not a business case, but the assessment of how many students are going to study less as a result of this bill is of course not a business case either. Any student or potential student who claims not to dare because of this bill is a real loss, is a lost student. So I object to saying that it's gonna be okay and it's gonna be okay. This gives you the chance that a decent group of students is now lost for scientific education. I see Mr Bruijn nodding, so we agree. We really need to make sure that the fallout is as low as possible. We have to fight for every student. I therefore ask Mr Bruijn when, in his view, monitoring should lead to intervention. Is that when the CPB's expectations are exceeded in a negative sense and there is more than 2% down? What period does Mr Bruijn intend to look at this? I believe that the current generation of students, as well as the generation of later students, is entitled to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr Essers' first point, which is 2,700, is indeed an estimate of the CPB. That's an estimate made before the bill was redrafted. The VVD therefore shares Mr Essers' concerns, which are even shared by the entire House of Representatives and the government. These concerns have led to a large package of mitigating measures in the sphere of reimbursement and more intensive information, which I shall come back to later. So those concerns are shared. It is now necessary to consider to what extent the additional measures meet these concerns in a reasonable manner. You'll never get security about that. Mr Essers also had a question about the acceptable exit limit. Yeah, that's interesting. My group asked questions about this in the written round. We then received the Minister's explanation that as a larger proportion of students who are not going to study afterwards turn out to belong to the group that had otherwise fallen out, as shown by a falling out, the tolerance threshold will be higher. Because of a student who would have fallen out anyway, who is not going to study out of fear of loan, which is completely unnecessary, I do not regret that he is not going to study. You're even protecting that high school kid from the wrong choice of study. Suppose that 2,000 students abandon a study and it turns out that the drop-out is 2,000, then it is guessed that the choice of a large proportion of people who are not going to study would have fallen out differently. Then that 2,000 is a tolerated dropout. But when we see, which I absolutely do not expect, that there are still students who do not understand that you can go to study better and therefore refrain from studying, while they are not the ones who fall out later. We're gonna have to see how that works out. If you look closely at the qualitative groups you're talking about, you can't set a nominal limit in advance for that failure. That does not, of course, mean that we all want to minimize this failure. As summarised in detail on page 10 of the reply, on the basis of all the information, there does not seem to be any reason to assume that structurally large groups of young people are not going to study anymore. The bill was subsequently amended with a package because of these concerns during the process in the Lower House. Among other things, monthly charges for redemption go from 12% to 4%. That's another third of what we have now and an average of 1% of the collection income. This is therefore below the average percentage that all Dutch turn in to get the Netherlands out of the crisis. The discharge period has been extended from 15 to 35 years. What's left of residual debt is forgiven. So no one pays more than 4% of their income above the minimum wage in redemption. The drop-off threshold, which is now at the level of assistance, has been raised to the level of minimum income. It is made possible to pay off flexible and early. For students from families up to an income of €46,000, the supplementary scholarship remains. And for income below €30,000 it goes up by over €100 per month. Although certainty in general and in the case of legislative proposals in particular is never to be given, otherwise we would have nothing to do with these adjustments, considering, the conclusion not only of the government, but also of the majority in the House of Representatives, that anyone who is motivated can study. And to return to Veerman: the shift between collective and private contributions is in line with his advice. In relative terms, the Netherlands spends about as much on higher education as Germany, for example. But in the Netherlands, a much larger proportion of this money now goes to student income support, 3 billion a year. With the study advance, this income support is reduced by 1 billion, thus releasing more tax money for a quality boost in colleges and universities. I already hear support here on my right hand. The livelihood remains subsidised by 2 billion, even if one can ask whether this is a collective responsibility. In addition, the government, read the taxpayer, continues to pay the vast majority of the study in the new system. After all, we all benefit from a well-educated population. Let us be clear: doubt is the mother of all progress. Without uncertainty, no policy. But the accessibility of higher education for anyone who is able to successfully study and that also will is important for the VVD. It is not the intentions that are at stake, it is the results. My group therefore welcomes the commitment of this Minister, supported by various widely supported motions in the House of Representatives, to pay close attention to good information and to monitor closely in the coming years whether the influx, flow and outflow of young people into higher education are maintained and whether any change in this legislation is linked to the introduction of this bill. In addition, information has already been given considerable attention. I have here a letter from the Minister from October 2014, addressed personally to my son Martin. I look at that letter with some jealousy, because I have never received a personal letter from the Minister myself. Anyway, it's always good to be overtaken by your kids. The information contained in this letter on this legislative process and the forthcoming study advance was crystal clear, including for Martin. And apparently the information was crystal clear to others, as witnessed by the 34.625 signatures we received last week thanks to the students. However, I would like to ask how the Minister looks at the possibilities for further information to the students who are now coming, as the timetable for dealing with this bill seems clearer and as far as we are concerned. Members of my group would like to know whether the Minister is prepared to keep this Chamber informed of its findings from monitoring and the various announced impact measurements of the study advance, as announced in the response, including its proceeds, and secondly of the content of the opinion of the VO Council to be published at the end of this year on a firmer anchoring of career orientation and, thirdly, of the evaluation of career guidance in the MBO, including the flow of mbo-hbo and mbo-work market, which will be published in 2015. I'd like a commitment. Learning doesn't stop from the moment you graduate in your 20s. In order to continue to develop yourself as a human being, but also to increase opportunities in the labour market, it is important to continue learning. This new system offers the opportunity to do so. That is why this bill provides that people over 30 years of age who wish to study part-time can claim tuition credit as a student advance. We should like to hear from the Minister about the implementation of the Duisenberg motion on the deadline for the introduction of this regulation. The process of this law is now running for about two years. The bill is a political compromise supported by the VVD. It is not up to us to repeat the political debate that has taken place in the House of Representatives. For my group, there are still two important points on which more clarity is needed. They see the legality and effectiveness of this bill. It concerns economic effects and investment. Firstly, the economic effects of this bill: a subject affecting all sections of the population and affecting parties from the left to the right. The legislative proposal contains a number of measures that redistribute macroeconomic income compared to the baseline path. I've already named the package in detail. These include the 4% income-dependent refund threshold and the income-dependent supplementary exchange. The members of my group agree that there seem to be good reasons for taking these levelling measures in terms of accessibility. But is access really increasing through these specific, added measures? Can the government provide insight into this? This is all the more pressing, and this will interest young people, now that these measures also have a price due to their effects on structural employment. Jobs, then, labor. Members of my group are therefore wondering what the macroeconomic effects of these measures are and whether these effects are expected to be compensated by investing the proceeds of the bill in the quality of higher education. This is precisely what benefits economic growth and structural employment. What is structural employment? It is defined in the Keuzes report in Map 2012 as employment after, for example, 28 years. In the reply, the government, in response to my group's question on this matter, addresses the impact of the bill on student participation during the study, on study failure and through it on employment. It was legitimate, but our question is particularly concerned with the effects of the bare measures that are being taken with regard to the soon-refunding graduates and whether or not they make them dependent on income in relation to the basic path. "Basic path" in this case means the bill without these income-dependent schemes. The reimbursement of the student debt and the exemption under certain limits can be seen as a model income-dependent tax. Given that this is a debt, the repayment is entirely dependent on income and directly affects the net wage and thus benefits of labour and supply. This is to be estimated as if it were an ordinary charge. These are the effects of educational investment, as we know from Choices in Map 2012, as I have just discussed with Mrs Gerkens. My group is asking the Minister for a commitment that she will take this with her in the first legislative review. This still concerns an ex ante estimate of the underlying path and not an ex post payment, as suggested in the reply. That's impossible. The members of my group, undoubtedly with the cabinet, are interested in the effects of the measures on employment. And, as I said, the VVD, the Labour Party, also sees that there can be good arguments for income redistribution measures. However, this does not affect the need and our responsibility to make the effects of the measures on work understandable. Then there's the investment. The funds released through the reform of the system of study funding are intended exclusively for a quality impulse for higher education. The Minister has already promised this, as we have read. My group attaches great importance to this. Perhaps the Minister can confirm this again, because there is apparently still some doubt about it. I come to the ideological central question of how these investments will contribute to better education. Well, we are talking about a multitude of measures. With some of them, institutions have already started. We see the mandatory study packager and matching activities for better study choice, university lectures, broad bachelors, associate degrees, a three-year HBO-bachelor for vwo'ers, the training committees, external assurance of exam quality..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, institutions can invest in study guidance and internationalisation, including grants. Additional teachers can be attracted for smaller-scale education and increase the number of contact hours. Additional investments can also be made in digital learning and ICT facilities and in the modernisation and expansion of study spaces and educational spaces. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the strategic agenda on the basis of which the proceeds of this bill are invested must reflect the dynamics of individual institutions and training. This is also borne in mind the pursuit of profiling, another ambition of the widely supported Veerman report. The institutions therefore choose their own agenda. It must be worn by teachers and students. That is why this legislative proposal provides for a right of assent. Can the Minister describe what the government means by'main lines of the budget' when it comes to the power of assent of participation? What are the experiences of institutions which now have such a right of assent? My group assumes that this goes well in 95% of cases, given the quality of drivers and councils in the Netherlands. But what happens in cases where there is conflict and approval is withheld? What can the Board do with regard to operational continuity, pending any procedure? Is it possible to compromise the ability to control it? I'd like the Minister's vision. The investments must therefore be in line with the strategy of institutions, the commitments made in the National Education Agreement and the quality agreements made with the Ministry and to which the financial resources are linked. In the explanatory memorandum in paragraph 8.3, the government states that experience with the current performance agreements in higher education is also explicitly involved in this. That experiment ends at the end of 2017 and its evaluation will provide an important basis for the elaboration of the quality agreements, according to the explanatory memorandum. This is being worked out in the context of 'I dare hardly call it 'AMvB' which, as the members of my group understand, will be put before this Chamber. Please confirm. For my group it is important, as it is for others, and rightly so, by D66, among other things, that the criteria to be applied be as much as possible on the quality of education. Criteria that are further waived are also referred to in science as surrogate markers. Examples include numbers of students or numbers of diplomas per unit of time, per second, for example. It was the least bad criteria we had. In the absence of a better solution, they are used as a financing parameter. They have undoubtedly perverse effects, leading to positionable criticism. I also look at the PvdA....................................................................................................................................................................... And I like to go into that. The limited value of these parameters was exactly the basis for the experiments with performance agreements. This is a search for criteria that are closer to educational quality and which the institutions themselves prefer and which are then agreed upon. Quality criteria fall into two categories: quantifiable and non-quantifiable. The quantification of a quality criterion does not say anything about the quality of that criterion. So we should not a priori shy away from that. A quantitative indicator is not perverse or destructive because it is quantitative. An indicator can be perverse if it is too far removed from educational quality. Examples of quantifiable quality parameters are less busy lecture halls and more intensive guidance, so better student-teacher ratios, but also contact hours and outages. These are all parameters mentioned not only by the VVD, but also by D66 on his website and in his election program, which is easily digestible, at this point. We can also think of innovative quality instruments that are still under development. Examples of this are learning-independent cross-institution tests, which also facilitates profiling, so I also say to the Minister, and is not the same as national examination. This can also counteract the culture of six. Other examples include learning gains and added value. With learning gains and added value, but also with learning track independent testing, experience is now being gained in different educational sectors. Interesting data has already been brought out, among other things by the Ministry. Can the Minister comment on this? Inspiring new ideas are also emerging from the HO-Tour, an important initiative, as I experienced yesterday at Utrecht University of Applied Sciences. In addition to this type of quantifiable quality parameters, and I look at D66 again, institutions can also opt for quality-enhancing activities that are not necessarily tailor-made, but are therefore no less important, such as academic culture, internationalisation and excellence pathways. The latter sections have already received specific attention from the public authorities and the institutions in the form of the Sirius Programme and in the context of performance agreements. The Sirius Programme has positive effects on quality culture. This is reflected, among other things, in the mid-term review agreements which the Minister sent to this Chamber on 23 December and for which my group thanks the Minister. The Manifesto for the Excellence Education of the Future, presented on the eve of the conclusion of the Sirius Programme at the Summit Excellency on 2 October 2014, contains field-based recommendations for the future of education, now that, unfortunately, subsidies for the institutions under the Sirius programme have ended. My group calls on the government to pay particular attention to the experience gained from the Sirius pathways and the indicators that have been developed and used in the use of the funds from the study advance, in order to make use of them in strengthening the teaching of all students and the action points in the manifesto. I'd like a response and a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u25	How does Mr Bruijn intend to ensure and check that all these promises in terms of improving the quality of education are actually respected and lead to the desired results? Does he want to include that in accreditation procedures and educational visits? What picture does he have of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr Essers asked a relevant question. The essence of this legislative proposal is that we leave it to the debate between the institutions, first of all, the teachers and students, and the government that is discussing it on our behalf. That experiment has already been done with the performance agreements. This is due to the fact that we do not consider the current criteria for numbers of students and diplomas to be the ideal criteria. This legislative proposal provides for space for it to be further regulated by AMvB, which is undoubtedly being put forward in this Chamber in order to come up with new ideas and innovative plans in that debate with the institutions and the students themselves, the student responsible. The HO-Tour is ahead of that. I think that is an excellent initiative. I wouldn't want to shut that down from above. This bill isn't really about that. This legislative proposal deliberately leaves room for discussion on a decentralised basis and, above all, for students to take part in this debate. I think it's a good choice to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u27	I am listening with interest to Mr Bruijn and I am mostly listening to what he is not saying. He talks about quality and about everything and everything in a very generic way, without going into the huge differences that occur at the universities between the different disciplines. The demands that are being made, that which is caught under quality, are hugely different from one discipline to another. To my taste it is completely impossible to talk about averages if you do not go into those differences further. Let me give a very concrete example. We have to listen very often, which seems to be a mantra of our time, that education is not good and that it needs to be improved. I know a lot of disciplines where education is more than excellent, at a level that is more than adequate internationally, where other countries can take an example. But that story that education would be so bad and that more staff would be the solution; I don't believe it at all and I say this from my own experience. If these differences between disciplines are not mentioned, we are in the middle of a very empty discussion. I would like to get the reaction of my colleague Bruijn to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u28	I'd really like to give it to you. First of all, I didn't use the words average and bad. Education in the Netherlands is an international top. I can testify to that from my discipline. I deal with students every day in lecture halls and working groups. Our education is one of the best education in the world across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u29	Not over the full width.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u30	On average, maybe. Then let me use the word "average" once. But there's room for improvement. That room for improvement has been identified and appointed by the Veerman Committee. Also in my discipline and also in myself as a teacher there is room for improvement. There will be one with Mr De Lange. It's about making use of that room for improvement. So it's not about saying that education is bad. It's not about saying it's the same everywhere. It's about making better use of that space. Mr De Lange is right to say that there are differences between disciplines. And then I say, that's the beauty of this bill. This bill leaves room for the decentralised discussion per discipline, per programme and if necessary per student and teacher to see what can be done better per programme. I experienced it yesterday, with the Minister, when I was a guest at the HO-Tour. The teaching literature shows how difficult it is to come up with good quality criteria for education. That is why it seems to me to be an excellent idea not to close that today, but to discuss this in the future of this bill, within the scope that this bill will soon provide financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u31	Of course, you can differ widely on that. I will deal with this in my own contribution. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr Bruijn and I will not disagree on the importance of investment in higher education. This is indeed in line with the Veerman Committee. However, we do differ on the source where that money is to be found. I have one more question for Mr Bruijn. Does he think that, when the developments he describes start, all colleges and universities in the Netherlands should be able to get a share of these investments in the same way? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u33	This is now typically something that will be worked out and which we are not closing today. So I'm not answering that. The most important thing is that all the institutions, all the students and all the teachers get involved in this debate. How these resources are then distributed depends on the outcome of the debate. There may be an institution or, rather, a programme that all students, all teachers and all objectively measurable parameters say: this programme is so good; we do not need to improve it. This will result in less of the additional resources flowing into this training and perhaps other training, for which we all need more room for improvement, will be invested more. I think that customization is the beauty of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u34	What is Mr Bruijn's view of this process? That's what's gonna happen at all these colleges and universities. Ideas are being developed and proposals made. Is one then dependent on a kind of drawing right or decision of a ministry? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u35	Again, we're not gonna shut that down today. I refer to the experiment that was carried out in advance with the performance agreements by the Van Vught Committee. The committee has said that we are giving a small part of the institutions' budget not on the basis of the parameters that we all consider to be perverse, namely numbers of students and numbers of diplomas, but on the basis of quality criteria that the institutions, students and teachers themselves come up with. Apparently, that experiment was successful. Of course, you can count on everything, but in the evaluation we have received, we are praised. And based on what I see around me, that's good, too. I myself mention the Sirius criteria, which have also been developed by the institutions themselves in consultation with students. That's about the excellence trails. How exactly are you going to do that? Let us leave that to the student, the teacher and the programme, and let us not close it here today. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Looking at everything, when we look around at today's society and the socio-cultural and economic challenges that our young people are about to face, there is absolutely no better and more necessary investment than that in good education. In any case, we are united here in our search for better education. It is only reasonable that these young people themselves should make a contribution to this. A solidarityary contribution, which, with a few percentage points of income at most, is no greater than the contribution that this government is asking all Dutch people to make the necessary reforms in general possible and to prepare the Netherlands and its public system, which is ours all, for the future. I await the government's response with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr President, colleagues and others present. Today, we are faced with an important political decision-making process. I am not going to talk about this for too long because this proposal for a directive has, quite rightly, been dealt with in the House of Representatives and has been amended and our committee has also given its full light to it in two rounds of questions. We are now faced with a political balance when we look at the reports, which, by the way, our group is happy with. In my maiden speech I said that this Chamber is a political body, as is now proven once again. I hope that my colleagues will be guided by their party programme rather than by ex-post agreements in the political balance that we are going to make today. We have before us the law that is called Study Finance Act 2000 but which we prefer to call the law on the study loan, because that is at the heart of the matter. We don't fall for euphemisms. So it's a cutback. My group believes that it cannot and should not be borne by the generations who will govern this country in the future and who are already burdened with so much debt. What strikes us most is that all those political parties who constantly say that extra investment is needed in education are in agreement with this. I have just heard from Mr Bruijn that this money is being removed and then reinvested. Those are all things that we have yet to see will happen. Besides, it's all far too vague. Students and teachers are going to determine this with each other, but my experience in education is that even though that will not be the case now, mostly it will lead to higher salaries of the higher framework. This law also restricts the freedom of choice of students, especially those who have from home from a somewhat lesser scholarship. Mr Essers rightly mentioned all the middle incomes, the people who pay taxes in this country, the people who go to work in the morning at 9 a.m. and who come home in the evening after they have worked hard, the people in small and medium-sized enterprises, whose wages are fluctuating. How is this taken into account? How is a shopkeeper taken into account, a small entrepreneur whose salary may vary considerably from one year to the next? Is that emancipation now? I once heard a political leader say he was crazy about tying it up. Is this what we are going to do at the expense of those hardworking Dutch? Their children also have the right to study and to as many opportunities as others. This bill saddles students, especially middle-income students, with years of debt. Recently I heard that the Netherlands is the most thrifty people and that even when we barely get interest, we Dutch go to the savings bank, because that is how we were raised. But apparently the government wants to get rid of it. That is a problem, because in my city I do not have to say which one it is. What's our government doing now? He says, "Get a loan, that's fantastic." So we are setting a bad example. What's it gonna do to someone who graduated and then looks at a loan for 35 years? The government states that this is not a loan, but an investment, which will earn itself a great deal later on through a higher income. But it is already being taken into account that it may be the same as with the minimum wage, even if you have done such a study. Of course the Minister knows what a teacher's salary is. Should it be taxed again, especially if you compare that salary with that of an ordinary manual worker, such as my son who is an electrician, or a port worker in Rotterdam? They're all people who make a lot more money but don't have college debts. The government also, in response to a question from my colleague Mr Reynaers, asks that this measure contributes to the student's financial awareness. I also heard something like this between the lines of Mr Bruijn, who put it more beautifully. Can you believe the student's financial awareness? Shouldn't we just leave that to the parents and the students themselves? Does the government have to act as a schoolmaster here? Students borrow at a certain rate. That interest rate is fluctuating. Is the Minister prepared to allow the interest rate of the loans to go along with these fluctuations, so that the government never receives more interest than it itself pays for those loans? This is a question for the Minister, but I see that Mr Bruijn is already going to answer that question for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u37	I have two questions for Mr Sörensen. The first is about financial awareness. I didn't use that word in my input. I did talk about the Nibud's alert that students are more of a loaner than a loaner, and that in that sense may therefore contribute to the behaviour of students if they are now learning to borrow for an investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u38	That's what I meant. I think we should leave that to students and their parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you for this correction. My second question concerns the concern that the money would disappear in the basic cost, for example in the salary of teachers. I share those concerns with you, like all parties in the House of Representatives, because they led to the Bishop's motion in part No. 49, which provides that the basic cost is distinguished by the general method of calculation from the additional financing on the basis of the quality agreements. So the money can never disappear in that baselumpsum to the salaries. You were before that. That's what we're here for. Can't you see a hole in this motion? Are you going to file a supplementary motion, or were you forgetting that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u40	I forgot about that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u41	Was Mr Sörensen perhaps also forgetting how much the PVV cuts on education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u42	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u43	Good. Then the whole complaint about austerity with which Mr Sörensen started is a bit of a big pair of pants. If we see that the PVV itself is cutting back 1.9 billion on education, of which 0.2 billion on higher education, then it should not come up with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u44	Why not? We have indeed completed this austerity, as Mr Gerkens said. But I didn't talk about ourselves or the SP, but I did talk about other parties, like your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u45	Including an increase in first-year tuition fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u46	Yes. I shall now move on to my next point. When I read and pass this law, with all the questions surrounding it, I see something else, namely the great bureaucracy. This law will lead to a gruesome bureaucracy. Read the law as it came through the Lower House after amendment and the bureaucracy is staring at you. That's not what we're waiting for. If you look closely at the law, you should actually come up with adjustments every year for every student, and you should calculate what is earned at home every time. That seems to me to be a very difficult and bureaucratic matter. I wonder how the Minister intends to do this. Mr President, I promised you that I would not make it too long. As you know, I came into politics quite late. My political example Fortuyn always told me that if you tear something down, you should actually come up with an alternative. I listened to that very carefully with my group. One point has been discussed here only in passing, but it has been discussed in committee, namely child benefit. If you are over 16 years of age and are going to study, the child benefit goes to education. I understand that it is something completely different, but why is it not even looking at the largely obsolete extra contribution that households with low incomes simply go into the family budget? Child benefit is just an extra income for the total family. Why is this money not deposited in an account in the name of the child for which it is intended, so that even if the time is right, if the child really needs it, it can be used for example for study funding? That's my alternative. I understand that I should actually put that forward in another committee, but let us take a look at it. My group still sees too many objections to this bill for the time being. I will therefore advise my group, but that is obviously up to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal to transform the basic scholarship in higher education into a study advance, with the aim of improving the efficiency and fairness of the system and improving the quality of higher education. For the PvdA it is crucial that an increase in students' own contribution to the study, anyone who wants and can study, also feels the financial space to study. My group therefore welcomes the fact that the increase in the own contribution for students in higher education is accompanied by a substantial reduction in the monthly reimbursement costs. Think of the possibility of extending the repayment period to 35 years, starting two years after obtaining the diploma. Or the reduction in the percentage of the additional income that a student has to use for reimbursement of the advance from 12% to 4%. Also, the repayment obligation will only apply from 100% of the statutory minimum wage, including 8% holiday bonus, whereas it is now 84% and 143% for households. Furthermore, the possibility of temporarily introducing a payback break for a maximum of five years, spread over twenty quarters, remains, the so-called joker years. We also support the increase in the additional grant of €100 for students of parents with lower income, so that they do not have to waive a study in higher education on financial grounds. Furthermore, the PvdA is pleased that the austerities planned under the previous cabinet have been reversed on the supplementary stock exchange. I would like to quote from a message drawn up by the Young Socialists in the PvdA, together with the Young Democrats and the JOVD: "We are convinced that the money that is now being spent on the maintenance of students is better placed as an investment in the quality of education. At the same time, access to education is guaranteed by a higher supplementary grant and favourable payment conditions." These arguments for the legislative proposal before us wholeheartedly support my group. With another argument, however, my group has great difficulty, namely the so-called business case for study. According to the government, there is a changing paradigm with regard to students and student funding, from the independent student to the investing student. Given the high personal benefits of the programme, it is only logical to ask students to make a higher own contribution to the costs they incur during their studies, according to the government. On the contrary, my group believes that students are concerned not only with individual benefits but also with the development of individual talent, bildung, partly for the benefit of society. We believe that the development of talents for the benefit of both themselves and society should be precisely the motivation for young people to study. We therefore do not consider it desirable to appeal to young people in terms of return and profit, rather than to appeal to the responsibility of these young people to develop their talents, including for the benefit of society. We are making this plea for the responsible student from a social-democratic perspective, as I say to Mr Bruijn. We therefore ask the Minister whether the shaping and uplifting task of higher education would come under pressure from the emphasis on individual benefit. How can it prevent the student from being treated solely or mainly as a calculating citizen only for his own benefit? For example, an unintentional side effect of the present legislative proposal could be that income inequality is increasing. After all, it could lead to students subsequently feeling legitimized to demand higher salaries. After all, they have borrowed for it, and that investment must come back. As a result, the income gap with people who have not studied and who have not had to invest for this could increase. Does the Minister consider this desirable? If not, what consequences does it have? My group welcomes the additional financial resources available for higher education as a result of the present legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mrs Sent asked a number of questions about issues which she was concerned about, namely that further individualisation was welcomed by this bill. How could this be prevented in her view? I think the fear she's getting out of here is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u49	I think it is very important to put the emphasis in communication to students on the responsible student who contributes to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u50	It's not by definition that if you go to higher education now, you're gonna earn that better salary, too? Then it seems logical to me that the student makes a calculating decision, namely: let me not become a teacher, because that does not make much money. Then you will see that this quality is going to work in business. I think we will then get a veining at exactly the places where we need that quality. Mrs Sent may now rely on the student's responsibility, but the government calls on the student's income. So I think there really is a gap there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u51	This responsible student receives education of a better quality. We all think that's important. The question is how to free up the funds and how best to spend the money in higher education. Of this we say with our young people in the PvdA that you can spend that money better on the quality of education than on the maintenance of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u52	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u53	Or you take it away from senior management. That's also a choice you can make. But Mrs Sent's answer is not an answer to the question of how she thinks she will prevent students from opting for courses that, by definition, make a lot of money and not for courses that we say are very much needed in our society, such as in health care or education. Mrs Sent mentioned that problem as well. I didn't hear an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u54	First of all, I said that it was important to put the emphasis on the student responsible in communication. In addition, a number of students may be disproportionately affected and will adapt their choice of study. The Minister has promised in the Lower House to monitor this very carefully and to take action if there are undesirable effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u55	Mrs Sent said a few passages back that the emancipating effect of higher education should not be lost because of this measure, but what exactly does she mean? Where does she see the danger? Are there certain groups at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u56	The danger would be that, if you appeal to the student above all on his own financial gain, you would create a citizen that we as Social Democrats are concerned about. We want people who work for society with the upliftment. We believe that if the money is spent efficiently and fairly in higher education and if it serves the quality of higher education, that objective can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u57	The Veerman Commission mentioned two groups that lag behind when it comes to participation in higher education, namely socio-economically weaker groups and ethnic minorities. Is your fear that, because of these measures, this way of financing the student himself, these groups in particular would not be able to participate in higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u58	I don't think so. We very much welcome the accompanying policy, the reduction of monthly refunds and the increase in the supplementary stock exchange for lower income groups. We believe that this will ensure access to higher education. At the same time, we are pleased that this is being monitored and that action is being taken should undesirable effects occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u59	You mentioned not only accessibility but also justice in the system. It will soon be the case that some students who have completed higher education have a very high debt because they have had to borrow everything, even with an additional scholarship, while others have not accumulated any debt because they have parents who have been able to pay for the study. This gives people an unequal starting position on the labour market. Do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u60	They're in that position now. There is now also a difference between how many children borrow from lower and higher income groups. What the legislative proposal is doing is introducing a number of mitigating measures to ensure accessibility for lower incomes. On balance, the additional loan will be on average €6,000 according to the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u61	I dispute that the significance of borrowing in this bill would be equivalent to the stepping-up that every student now receives through a basic grant. It contains the element of equality and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u62	That wasn't a question. That was a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr Sent expressed her concern at the fact that education could tend towards a return system or a business case and that this could not be the intention. It has a question on this matter for the Minister, who she wants to know what consequences it will have for those concerns. Are these concerns for the PvdA so essential that it has not yet been established that, if the Minister fails to respond satisfactorily, this bill will be accepted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u64	We always have a good habit of letting our voting behaviour depend on the plenary debate. Otherwise we would not have to have a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u65	It's great that you're making it so exciting!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u66	My group welcomes the additional financial resources available to higher education as a result of the present legislative proposal, but has questions about the specific use of this money. In the agreement on the study advance, it was agreed that the funds released as a result of this bill will be invested in higher education and will be linked to the strategic plans of the institutions and quality agreements made with the Ministry, we read in the response. The question of how this will take shape will only be answered after the evaluation of the performance agreements. It is only then that, according to the reply, the question arises as to the extent to which the funds released are awarded in the form of additional financing under quality agreements and which part is added to the basic cost. Were it not better to provide clarity about the use of the funds that have been released before taking them out, my group asks the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u67	Is that last question a rhetorical question or an open question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u68	We ask open questions and hope that the Minister will give us adequate answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u69	With all due respect, we have had two extensive written rounds in which this point has repeatedly come back. Surely you have a preliminary position on that question, I presume? That's completely open, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u70	We understand, as has already been pointed out in the debate with Mr Bruijn, that it is important to await the evaluation of the performance agreements. This evaluation gives, according to a preliminary report, the confidence that an improvement is possible and that quality agreements can be made. We also consider it important that these quality agreements should be carried out by the institutions with the agreement of the students and the staff, rather than imposing from above on how the Ministry thinks the quality could be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u71	Do you think that, when these agreements have been made, there should really be mechanisms to enforce them and to check that they are being complied with, for example through visitation procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u72	I will give the same answer as Mr Bruijn. This is anticipating the agreements that will eventually be made with the institutions. It's not exactly hope that it all works out. For the time being, performance agreements and the overview of impacts so far give the confidence that quality agreements will also make good progress in improving quality in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u73	Finally, Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u74	I think that's crazy. Making appointments is one thing, but you will also have to build in mechanisms to ensure that those agreements are respected. You can't leave that to the free play, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u75	Those mechanisms are now in place. For example, there is the right of consent of staff and students within the bill. Evaluations will be sent to the Chamber. That is the subject of debate, there are AMVBs. So these mechanisms are not as free as Mr Essers might suggest. Were it not better to provide clarity about the use of the funds that have been released before taking them out, I just asked the Minister. Does the midterm review of the higher education performance agreements give the Minister the confidence that agreements can and will be made that will lead to a quality improvement and, if so, why? What preliminary lessons does she draw from the midterm review for the future design of quality agreements? How does the Minister intend to avoid the risk of quantitative indicators becoming an end in itself? I'll ask that question with D66. How does it prevent earmarked funds from raising quality expectations that cannot be met? And what role does staff and students have to play in deciding on the use of the funds released? These are many questions, because there is still uncertainty. My group hopes that during this plenary debate the Minister will be able to give us the necessary clarity. In other words, they are open questions and not rhetorical questions. The PvdA would like to ask the Minister's attention to the position of a number of groups of students. The first concerns students with disabilities. Students who are delayed due to their disability or chronic illness, and whose duration of study funding has been extended by DUO for one year, are entitled to a one-off waiver of €1,200 if they successfully complete an HBO Bachelor's programme, a wo-bachelor or a wo-master's programme within the period of diploma. This waiver will take place at the same time as the conversion of the performance fair, but such remission may be conditionally decided upon during the course of the study. The waiver is equal to an additional year of housing grant in the current system. However, in the new system more than €2,000 are declining in resident students with disabilities. Students with disabilities who have been delayed for more than a year are also disproportionately affected. Does the Minister consider this to be undesirable with my group? If so, what possibility does it see to further accommodate students with disabilities? The second group requiring special attention concerns mbo-streamers. If MBOs with study debt are transferred to higher education, the payment conditions are automatically converted to the new payment system. This makes the new payment conditions applicable retroactively to the old student debt. However, this conversion to the new system does not take place when an HBO passes to the wo. My group would like to receive a supporting justification from the Minister for this difference between MBOs and HBOs who wish to pass on. We would also like to hear from the Minister how she assesses the legal certainty of MBOs in this regard. And then there are groups of students who may be disproportionately affected because their studies take more time than average. Think of medical students who are internships and therefore have little or no time to earn a living. For students in this situation there are two solutions: either they retain the basic grant, or they receive a fee for their studies, just as students internship receive an internship fee. Does the Minister share our concerns? What possibility does she see of meeting these students? Or think of students with a relatively heavy Bachelor's programme or a multi-year Master's programme. These students may end up with higher student debt than the average bachelor and master student. Does the Minister consider this desirable? If not, what solutions is it prepared to offer these students? The latter, and certainly not the most insignificant group, concerns students who are currently in a Bachelor's programme and who would be confronted with a new system of study funding as a result of the present legislative proposal in the course of a Master's programme. That is, when they start with a master's degree from 1 September 2015, they are confronted with the fact that they don't get a fourth year of basic scholarship as a gift when they get their diploma. In the end, a student who studies nominally receives less income support than he or she could expect from the WSF 2000 at the start of his or her studies. This also makes a sudden distinction between current HBO students with four years performance grant and maintaining full rights and wo-students with three years performance grant. How does this relate to the legal certainty of current wo-bachelor students? My group is pleased to hear this from the Minister. When choosing to study and choose which study they are going to study, these students have not been able to take account of the new rules. And what will the Minister do when it turns out that some of the current Bachelor's students, for purely financial reasons, are not considering starting a master's study because they had expected to receive a basic scholarship during the Master's programme? It can count on the agreement of my group that, after the legislative proposal has been introduced, the government will continue to monitor the effects on accessibility, so that, if necessary, it can be adjusted in good time. To this end, the government has been encouraged by widely supported motions in the Lower House. It calls on the government to assess the impact of the measures on students, especially those from low-income families, I say to the senator of the Christian Union. The government is also invited to carry out an interim monitoring after four years, actively involving educational institutions and student associations. In addition, the government is invited to give students a role in determining the design and method of monitoring. This will be done, among other things, by inflow, flow and dropout rates, and by monitoring loan behaviour, study progress and study rate. And with the majority of the House of Representatives, my group supports the need for a framework for the amounts that can be paid from the profiling fund to compensate young people who do longer on their studies beyond their fault or by extracurricular activities in a more insightful way. However, all this monitoring raises the question of when the Minister considers the effects of the legislative proposal to be undesirable. At what change in inflow, transit and drop-out rates will it bring about an adjustment of the study advance? And at what change in borrowing behaviour, study progress and study rate does it think it should change the design of the system of study funding? A system change, as we are discussing today, requires very careful information. We are particularly sorry that our Chamber has not managed to complete the procedure for the application deadline for the decentralised selection of 15 January. The Nibud advocates that students should be able to obtain a so-called "nudge" to relieve them as quickly as possible. This can be achieved by highlighting the benefits of redeeming as quickly as possible and making the standard option payable in 15 years, with a deadline of 35 years as an opt-out option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr Sent says that she regrets that we have not been able to complete this bill for the period when students could apply. Students had to do this last week. They have now applied for something without knowing the financial consequences. Any way to settle debts, such a procedure is rejected. Does the PvdA reject the government's approach? Does Mrs Sent find it unacceptable that students do not know what debts they signed last week if this bill is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u77	Those students can always withdraw their application if the bill is passed. They have not committed themselves thereby.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u78	So you can easily assume that there are only two choices for students: either they cancel their registration or they leave it in place. The fact that there will be a completely new funding for studies is a pity. You're not gonna have any consequences for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u79	Students can make an informed decision on the basis of the new system of student funding. I call on the Nibud to run a campaign together with the government in which students are addressed on their responsibility. Students should be given a push so that they do not incur irresponsible debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u80	I note that the PvdA now says to students: take it or leave it. I think that is contrary to the regret Mrs Sent has just expressed. She only gives students the following possibility: if you don't like the new system, you don't want to study. Another study is no longer in it because they should have applied last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u81	I will come back to those who decide not to study because of the measures. I will express my concern about this and I hope that this will do Mr Koffeman a good job. I had stuck to the information and role of the Nibud. In addition, the start-up phase may be abolished and students can start paying off immediately, combined with a possible increase in the "joker years" by two years. After all, students retain the postponement of reimbursement if it is not financially feasible and/or by using the five or seven "joker years." The choice for students is no different, but this way the behaviour of former students gets a "push in the right direction," says the Nibud. In addition, the Nibud calls for information to be focused on the various target groups and for a national registration of student debts. My group is pleased to read in the reply that the government is working closely with the Nibud and other organisations to manage information, framing and defaults. And as a behavioral economist, I am pleased that insights from the behavioral economy are used. However, I and my group colleagues are not pleased to read the following on the website startstudderen.nl of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science: "Are you going to do a bachelor's study at HBO or wo as of September 2015 and are you asking DUO for funding for this for the first time? Or do you start a master's programme as of 1 September 2015? Then you can no longer get a basic grant, but you can apply for a study advance." Admittedly, this firm statement is nuanced further on in the text, but the student simply reads about it. In the opinion of the PvdA, it would have been better if the editor who posted the piece on 23 June 2014 had immediately made it clear that the introduction depends on the agreement of the two Chambers of the States General. Then he or she could have immediately indicated that the House of Representatives had given its consent to one of the sixteen adjustments made since then and for the last update on 12 January 2015. Does the Minister share this displeasure with us? I come now to Mr Koffeman. The temporary result of the present legislative proposal does not want to leave my group unspoken. I am referring here to the expected temporary decrease in participation in higher education. For example, the Centraal Planbureau calculated on the basis of international comparisons that, in the Netherlands, in increasing its own contribution to higher education, there could be a decrease in participation of around 2%, or 2,700 students per year for HBO and WO together. In this context, the Government stresses in the further reply that, on the basis of international comparisons carried out by the Center for Higher Education Policy Studies (CHEPS), it expects traditional participation patterns to recover after one or two years. The government has indicated that it will continue to monitor the impact on accessibility, so that, if necessary, it can be adjusted in a timely manner. Is the Minister prepared and able to detect and encourage those temporary drop-outs on whose career the abandonment of participation in higher education has a permanent effect? And more importantly, is the Minister prepared to take everything out of the closet to prevent talented people from entering a study purely because of the increased contribution of their own? 2,700 is a lot, but every potential student who for purely financial reasons renounces a study is one too many. Does the Minister agree with our group? And what does it intend to do to prevent this potential drop of 2%?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mrs Sent is a behavioral economist and that is why I am asking her the following question. Does it have any idea in which groups the deterrent effect of the increase in own contribution, as it calls it, is falling? Maybe there's something about loan anxiety. That 2% is an average and it is estimates based on foreign research. I want to know exactly what is happening in the Netherlands. We have reason to believe that this is particularly true in socio-economically weaker environments or in immigrant environments. Mrs Sent herself asked in the written preparation for possible peaks in the deterrent. Does she have any knowledge of this as a behavioral economist? In what groups does this strike down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u83	Does Mr De Lange have a subsequent question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u84	My question has a lot to do with it. In fact, Mrs Sent says that in the coming years we must monitor how many students, if this bill is to be adopted unexpectedly, are going to drop out for financial reasons. This could indeed be thousands. If this monitoring shows that people are dropping out for financial reasons, we can still take measures to win them back for higher education. Is that a realistic vision that suits a behavioral economist? If after one or two years you've decided to drop out, what doesn't have to happen to make you decide to go back on? It seems totally unrealistic to me. I would like to hear that Mrs Sent agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u85	It is very difficult to make adequate predictions. We economists know all about that. It is also very difficult to compare international systems. You have to do that to predict the expected outage. By the way, this 2% is based on an older version of the bill without the accompanying policy that makes every effort to encourage students and not make it depend on the thickness of the wallet to participate in higher education. It is precisely because of this ambiguity that we urge the Minister to find and encourage students to participate in higher education. According to most studies, this 2% is only a temporary dip. That is: temporary for higher education, but permanent for the career of the potentially 2,700 affected students. That is why we believe it is important to find and encourage them. We must ensure that this temporary dip does not become a permanent stain on their careers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u86	I think the effects will be stronger in the environments where the wallet isn't that thick. Mrs Sent asks this question to the Minister and she will not do so without reason. What's she afraid of? She also drops the term "fat wallet." Does she want to name what her fear is? What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u87	It is also quite possible that students who do not participate in higher education in the first year of the year will drop out because of insufficient motivation. We just don't know that. It's very difficult to make international comparisons. You don't know exactly what population it's about. That's why it's important to keep a finger on the wrist and track these students down. We must ensure that this is not a permanent restriction on the career of outliers. I conclude with the wise words of my favorite philosopher Loesje: "Study loan. Will I receive a quality guarantee?" In order to see this, among other things, I have put a number of questions to the Minister and I look forward with the members of my group to her answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u88	Has Mrs Sent had the loan system checked against the IVESCR Convention, the Convention on Economic and Cultural Rights? It says that we should gradually make higher education free of charge. That's the deal. It also states that as long as we do not do so, we must not take any steps to make the situation worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u89	We have indeed looked at this because we have also received e-mails about it. The tuition fee remains €1,900; this will not be increased. On balance, the government still contributes €6,500 per student per year to higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u90	The facts mentioned by Mrs Sent are correct. The Ministry of Education has requested a report on the effects of the introduction of the loan system on the ratification of the Convention. That report didn't look too bright. The tuition fees do not go up, but the accessibility of education is becoming less, 2% or perhaps even higher. Income also varies. Perhaps the government cannot ratify this treaty, while it contains very important things, including human rights. Mrs Sent's party is also in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u91	I am opposed to this worsening access to higher education. I would like to point out the accompanying measures. I'll mention the longer repayment period. You don't have to pay back until you get a higher income. I would also like to mention the increase in the supplementary grant for lower incomes. I dispute that this system has a permanent impact on the accessibility of higher education. It is interesting, as Mr Bruijn pointed out, that the SP in its electoral programme will, on balance, save 800 million on education. With this proposal, extra money will be devoted to the quality of higher education. This money is released by using resources more efficiently and fairly, not for the livelihood of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u92	I would ask Mrs Sent to put this question in an interruption later, because that will give me time to explain. I understand that she did not receive my response to Mr Bruijn's question. Mrs Sent does not respond to the fact that OCW's own research indicates that this is really in breach of that treaty. Mrs Sent could say that it is all much better, but the Committee can think very differently. Is Mrs Sent aware of this report and what is her opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u93	I just gave that opinion. I'm aware of it. It is still the case that the government contributes €6,500 per student per year. The tuition fees will not be increased. There is only a more efficient use of resources which now go to livelihoods. These resources are being used to increase quality. This will ultimately benefit the students. In doing so, we keep our education system competitive in contrast to the SP's plans to cut back on higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u94	I am looking at the clock, but I would still like to give Mr Engels the opportunity to speak before lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. When I walked to the chair, I received several incentives from my surroundings. Let's guess what they meant. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to reform the existing system of study funding. In essence, the basic grant will make way for the so-called study advance. The main justification for this is that it makes structuralally substantial resources available for necessary investments in the quality of higher education. This significant financial impetus is an essential element of the legislative proposal for the D66 Group. D66 has the ambition to focus on investing in a society in which knowledge now plays a central role. Knowledge has a decisive influence on the quality of society. Knowledge is a source of dynamism and of our learning and adaptability. Knowledge also has an intrinsic social value, for example for culture, civilisation, democracy, citizenship, historical awareness and reflective capacity. Knowledge is now our main production factor in addition to raw materials, capital and labour. Investing in the knowledge-based economy thus contributes to the growth of our productivity. This will enable us to invest more in, for example, sustainable development, the saving of scarce raw materials and fossil energy, the further reduction of public debt and the payment of growing healthcare costs and pension costs. In other words, the future of the Netherlands also lies, or perhaps in times of financial contraction, in continuing impulses for education, research and innovation. In recent years, the Netherlands has lost ground on the various international rankings of universities, innovative countries and countries with world-famous companies. We are still part of the international summit, but are no longer on the stage where the medals are distributed. In Dutch higher education there has been a steady reduction in available resources for years. As a result, compared to the countries around us, the number of researchers is now falling below the OECD average, and the number of students is still increasing. With a sharper choice of knowledge, competitiveness and excellence in higher education, the Netherlands can once again take a leading position in Europe and once again play a central role as the location of internationally talented people, companies and institutions. The possibility of investing in the quality of higher education through the proceeds of the new loan system is, as has been said, an essential element of the legislative proposal for the D66 Group. On this point, I have not been able to make clear to my group exactly how much the proceeds will be. There is talk of 1 billion on an annual basis, but there are also estimates of 620 million, but only starting in about six years. I would like to know from the Minister exactly which structural investment area we can use from which budget. I would also like to make a clear statement that this space will not leak out over time with higher student numbers or other growing cost carriers, for example. Finally, I would like to make sure that the funds released from study funding will be devoted exclusively to the quality of higher education and not to research or science policy or to other sectors of education, which have already received additional funding from my party in previous agreements. The money that is no longer being spent on students through the funding of studies should explicitly be given to those students in the form of even better guidance and even better education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u96	Mr Engels asks for guarantees for the use of the funds released. My group wholeheartedly supports that question. Can he also indicate how hard these guarantees must be to vote for this bill? Or does he give the government the benefit of the doubt? Does he say that we want the money to be spent on it, but we will see if it happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u97	I thought I'd been very clear. I ask the Minister to clarify this. On the basis of the Minister's reply, I will let you know what this means for my group's opinion, but not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u98	That's great, too. I understand that if there are insufficient promises from the Minister that money is being well spent, this will determine the voting behaviour of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u99	Then that is one of the determining factors for my group's voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u100	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u101	For the record, we make up our own minds. Otherwise, we're gonna get misunderstandings. The legislative proposal gives students and staff a right of assent on the main lines of the institutional budget. I do not wish to conceal the fact that my group was at first a little hesitant about this part, in particular the reminder of the structure of participation and, above all, the culture of participation in the 1960s. The "demotional university council republic" in which students themselves for a short time determined the program performances and literature, followed by the WUB, even more joyless, which led to endless meetings and large piles of paper. In the meantime, we see mainly bureaucracy and management in higher education. The question is whether we should be so happy about this now, but I will come back to that. What has convinced us of the great value of this participation component is the principle that students who, on the basis of the new funding system themselves, invest more in their training should also be able to exert more influence on the use of the extra funds generated by it for higher education. They, too, must be able to assess whether the desired quality will actually be achieved. For this reason, they should be able to discuss the strategy of the institution and the direction of policy at an early stage. The proposal allows each educational institution to set up the precise form of participation in a co-determination regulation according to local practices and circumstances. It can also define what should be included in the main lines of a budget. In any case, the resources available for education, research, staff, housing, management and new investment will have to be included. But it is clear that students can use this to control and influence the course of an institution. As far as I am concerned, the supervisory boards will have to monitor all of this. Finally, but hopefully only as a stick behind the door, a procedure at the Disputes Commission can provide a solution without the immediate deadlock of research and education. My group assumes that students are sufficiently mature and involved to fulfil their participation role. In any case, that is what I find satisfactory from the pleasant and fruitful contacts I have had over the last few weeks. Nevertheless, my group wonders whether they can make sufficient use of the facilities for professionalisation and the promotion of expertise guaranteed in the WHW. I would like to ask the Minister whether she has an idea of how generous the institutions are about this and whether students are sufficiently aware of the possibilities in this area. The legislative proposal contains a multitude of measures to ensure access to higher education. I won't mention them all, because they've already passed enough review. The expert meeting held by the Chambers Committee in December with the Central Planning Bureau, the Nibud and the CHEPS made it clear that the study advance will have a limited impact on the study choice. The estimated reduction in student entry into higher education is maximum and only temporarily 2%, apart from the additional compensatory measures for the lower income groups mentioned earlier in the legislative proposal. The expert meeting also showed that the final amount of the student debt will be on average €6,000 higher. The various risks associated with the impact of the legislative proposal on public finances, institutions, the labour market and students proved to be overwhelmingly visible during the expert meeting. All those involved indicated that borrowing for a study in higher education is a conscious and responsible choice. It is an investment in one's own future where one can reap the benefits of a lifetime. These observations of the expert meeting sound rather reassuring on their own. But that does not mean that there are no comments on the proposal. My group also has doubts about certain elements of the new system. For example, my group is concerned about the flow of MBO to HBO. This 2% inflow reduction on the total does not seem worrying, but there is nevertheless a financial threshold that will prevent young people from low-income families from taking the leap to higher education in some cases. Any talent that can't develop to the maximum, there's actually too much. It is legitimate to expect that young people with a MBO-4 diploma and thus an independent labour market qualification from those lower income groups who will find that threshold may be too high. We believe that this will also be more likely to involve young people from new populations in the major cities. Does the Minister recognise this shadow side of the new system? My group sees that the agreement reached by the Minister with some groups in the House of Representatives on accessibility has greatly improved compared to the original plans. However, there is still a worrying perspective for precisely the most vulnerable groups. I strongly invite the Minister to go into this further. A first evaluation in two or three years would be useful, as would a commitment from the Minister that if the flow really lags behind, additional measures will be taken. I hope that I can get that commitment from the Minister today and take it back to my group. The group of out-of-work students with disabilities runs into the new system at a disadvantage of 2,000 euros, namely the additional basic scholarship year they may receive under the current system minus a one-off remission of 1,200 euros. The Minister, on his own account, rightly states that the distinction between home and expatriate students with disabilities is not desirable, given the facilities available to students with disabilities. However, my group is not happy with the situation that has arisen. That is why, in the written preparation, we asked for additional measures in the event that the promised monitoring shows that residents with disabilities are significantly more hampered by the expiry of the distinction between being at home and being out of residence than is currently expected, for example if the said facilities and the institution's profiling fund do not provide sufficient support to this group. My group does not think that the Minister's response to this issue is satisfactory. The question is whether the fear that additional measures might be too heavy on the envisaged investment area is justified in this respect. We urge the Minister to make a stronger move on this point. My group has asked several questions in the written preparation about the position and legal certainty of certain categories of students in relation to the implementation of this bill. It is not quite clear to my group how exactly the cohort guarantee has been thought of. We understand that all students who are now in wo-bachelor training and receive study funding for this purpose will retain their basic grant for the nominal duration of the study. A subsequent wo-master study should then be seen as a new study, for which the new system will apply. Does this mean that students who start a master's programme from 1 September 2015 will no longer receive a fourth year of basic grant as a gift if they graduate? If this does not go too far in terms of legal certainty and legitimate expectations, I ask the Minister. In addition, my group has drawn attention to the current HBO students who, after obtaining their propedeuse, want to move to the wo. These students, who, after one year of HBO education, choose to continue their course at the university, receive two years of basic scholarship for their three-year Bachelor's programme, because their first year is counted on HBO. I would ask the Minister, for the record, whether, in the light of the reply, we can see that this effect can appear in the current system. We have also asked how current students can benefit sufficiently from the expected quality impact and investment. We understand from the reply that it has been agreed with the institutions that they are already starting to invest in the quality of education and that the first cohorts of students receive a voucher worth €2,000 for further study. In connection with the multi-annual masters, the Minister indicated that research shows that as a result of the abolition of the basic grant, students will not refrain from attending a multi-annual master's programme, because these driven students are less guided by financial considerations. My group has asked whether the government is considering measures if the impact monitor shows that the number of students in multi-annual master's programmes is going to decrease significantly. We welcome the fact that, in the event of a drastic decline in the number of notifications resulting from the new loan scheme, measures will be taken in line with the cost-benefit analysis and will increase the possibilities for students to qualify for such training. The student organisations have pointed out the legal status of the student, which they describe as vulnerable and weak. My group has some understanding of these concerns. For example, there appear to be considerable differences between educational institutions in the award of government grants. Student directors have the right to free tuition, but some institutions have apparently not yet introduced the possibility of free tuition. Even if this is the case, the students encounter restrictions in practice. My group has great hesitation in the differentiations that appear to exist in practice on this point. I would like to ask the Minister how she looks at this problem. At the same time, objection procedures do not always appear to be careful or take up much, if not too much time. My group believes that the course of justice for students should be sufficiently well known, transparent, independent and clear. The student organisations point to a study by Panteia which shows that this is not yet the case in general. In the reply, the Minister withdraws from the legal rights and obligations of the student in the WHW and the Act strengthening control 2010, and refers to the institutions on that basis. More than a discussion by the Minister with the VSNU and the VHS has therefore not been there. My group would like to know if there are any improvements to be made by now. I come to a substantial part: the quality agreements. As has already been said, the D66 Group supports the need for a large, structural quality mark in higher education. In recent years, the government cost of higher education has not kept pace with the growth of the number of students, as the Veerman Committee has noted. The same report therefore contains a large number of recommendations which adequately illustrate the need for a strong quality rating in education. The proposal also aims to provide a basis for the introduction of incentive payment in higher education. There are a number of questions on that point. As part of the current performance agreements, agreements have been reached with all universities and colleges on the quality of education, including study success. Among other things, they set out ambitions to counter student outages. In this context, attention has been paid to promoting teacher education skills, for example through the development of mandatory certificates and qualifications, the provision of "challenge" lectures, the development of twenty-first century skills such as communication, entrepreneurship, cooperation and creativity and, unfortunately, something very wonderful as the election of the lecturer of the year. This weekend, I saw a piece come along about "if I remember correctly" "learning communities in flipping classrooms." I hear laughter, but this is serious. Of course, I don't give rise to any laughter. In the meantime, funding is mainly driven by the number of graduates. My group has great hesitation as to whether all this will actually increase the quality of higher education. We see rather counterproductive tendencies in terms of bureaucracy, management, infantilisation and quantitative thinking. From the midterm review of the 2014 Higher Education and Research Review Committee, it can be seen that universities are already making good progress towards the final assessment in 2016 in achieving better education quality and higher study success. In the case of colleges, this improvement in educational quality is equally true, but in a number of cases a better return remains to be achieved. Their dilemma is, of course, that a higher quality that requires more students, while the influx level is often too low, is difficult to combine with more study success and higher return. So these indications do not reassure my group at all. This applies entirely to the principle laid down in the main agreement with the institutions that the return should not be at the expense of the quality and high final level of training. Partly based on own perception, various problems can be defined which hamper the quality of higher education. I mention overcrowded lecture halls and very large lectures, increasingly more school and simpler education to improve the returns and thus generate more diplomas and therefore money, bonus points when you appear at college and can spell your name error-free, lectures in which PowerPoints are read out and fun videos are played, placing on the digital learning environment old exams with standard answers, speaking crazy about higher education as well as the yo (very extensive lower education) or vwo-7 and putting on the digital learning environment of old exams with standard answers, speaking crazy about higher education as well as the yo (very extensive lower education) or vwo-7, and in some courses, and that is quite sad for me personally, a bit too far-reaching English-speaking education, apart from the lousy coal angels of both teachers and students. I could go on like this for a while, because it's nice to grumbling sometimes. I don't get that chance that often. The point I want to make, however, is how we can prevent the quality agreements from re-using measurable and thus quantitative performance indicators with a multitude of monitoring, accountability, visits and accreditations, which in practice lead to incorrect measures. How can we return from the path of perverse financial incentives? How can we achieve a real improvement in the quality of higher education? Are we sufficiently aware of the fact that the increase in quality and the increase in efficiency do not go hand in hand? The Science Vision 2025, released in December, contains a number of good ideas for a different approach. There will be an end to the culture of more students, more diplomas, more publications, more promotions, more accepted applications and so on. There will be more peace, as we have been promised, in the financing of higher education in the form of multi-annual funding. These are good steps towards strengthening what is called bildung in Germany, the care for knowledge and formation of the community. My basic question is whether we should continue with this type of central agreement between the Ministry and institutions. Would it no longer be obvious in the context of the right of assent to give the institutions themselves the responsibility to make agreements with teachers and students? Isn't it more logical to lay down the responsibility for adequate implementation where the quality stroke is ultimately to be made? I realize that this is a somewhat abrupt idea at the moment, but I would like to know from the Minister whether she considers it a conceivable prospect for the longer term. In any case, I would like the Minister to give us an undertaking that she will inform us more about the precise relationship between the right of assent at institutional level and the envisaged quality agreements at central level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u102	A lot of things have been understood from the heart. I have the same experience at the university as Mr Engels, but I still wonder if he is going a little too far with his claim that quality and efficiency increases would not go hand in hand. Isn't that a little pessimistic? You can think of all kinds of systems in which the quality of higher education is increased without this necessarily leading to higher dropout. If that is the case, the improvement in quality is clearly not good. Isn't this being too pessimistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u103	In short, I do not think that is the case at the moment. I wasn't quite finished with my speech either. I understand the background to Mr Ester's question and I agree with that. I simply note that the way in which we are currently engaged in performance agreements between the Ministry and the institutions does not allow me to see a simultaneous increase in both the level of training and the rate of return. I see a counterproductive movement. I agree with Mr Ester that this is not the right move. I do not want to say that it should not be possible to achieve both, but I would argue that, unlike the current performance agreements, we should consider whether the new system will make that relationship very clear. That is exactly the background to my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u104	Mr Engels skipped a piece of his written text. I think that is a shame, because there is a passage in it that I think is extremely relevant. It is about the assessment of teachers or teachers. researchers at universities. There the emphasis is too much on research performance. If people are focused on a career increase, they will focus on that and see education as a corvee rather than a challenge that suits their work. I would like to emphasise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u105	I can fully agree with that. On second thought, I decided to concentrate on the education component and to leave my comments on the research. That's not because I changed my mind afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u106	I must say that I very much appreciate the contribution made by Mr Engels, because this would also allow us to philosophize how we could actually improve the quality of education. This brings me to something that I keep running up against this bill, namely that this bill has the appearance that it is rather hasty. I hear Mr Engels mention concerns, just like Mrs Sent and Mr Bruijn. They all mention concerns. We also do not know where we will go if this financial investment in the quality of education is made and how we should have it worked out. Mr Engels understands that I do not want the loan system, but would it not be better to postpone it for a year to see if we can improve the quality of this bill on these points?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u107	The answer is no. That does not seem to me to be of any benefit. At some point, you have to end a discussion that has been very carefully and extensively conducted and draw a final conclusion. At the end of the day we will see what that conclusion will be. In general, I am not in favour of postponing discussions whose outcome will, I believe, be difficult to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u108	I mean, of course, that we use that time to improve the bill, not to wait to have the same discussion in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mr Engels makes commendable comments on perverse incentives in higher education. Everyone who works there will recognize them without a doubt. If we control the inflow and outflow parameters, and if we do so consistently because the funding depends on them, you are sure that it will go down thoroughly. If we relate this situation to the current legislative proposal, which proposes to pump more money into that system of higher education, while we establish with each other Mr Engels is doing that himself that the method of allocation of resources is not really working at all, is it wise to pump a lot of money into a bankrupt system? I do not think so, but I would like to hear Mr Engels' opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u110	I find it very difficult to agree with the honourable Member's analysis that there would be a perverse system in which there is no point of improvement. I certainly wanted to share my concerns with the Minister. We're gonna have a few more to deal with later. There are also certain questions to ask whether we have got the right direction. But I am not so far with my group to draw such far-reaching conclusions as the colleague draws here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u111	Very briefly, Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u112	In fact, I repeat what Mr Engels himself says: there are perverse incentives in the system that allow the wrong parameters to be controlled. I would say that this is the problem in higher education and that it should therefore be considered in depth. It is a remarkable step to leave the system intact as such, but to pump a lot of money into it. That does not seem very logical to me, nor does it seem very justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr Koffeman, I would ask you to be brief because of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mr Engels just referred to the German education system. Smart students have long realised that the German education system is becoming more attractive, while the Dutch education system is becoming less attractive with the loan system. In Germany, tuition fees have been abolished; in Belgium, tuition fees are only €600. Does fellow English share the view that when the loan system was introduced, a lot of Dutch students might think: you know what, am I going to study in Germany or Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u115	To begin with, I do not remember speaking about the German situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u116	"Bildung" is pretty German, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u117	Yes. You use that word. It seems to me a very interesting word to use here, but to stick to it now that I have made all sorts of comments about how the system works in Germany... That is why I can answer your question that I do not see much point of departure to adapt our possible position on the legislative proposal to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u118	The question was: do you share the concern that if the Dutch education system became less attractive by introducing the loan system, students could move to Germany or Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u119	That question presupposes that it is first to be determined whether the system that we would have if the legislative proposal were to be adopted actually has the effects you are assuming. I can't judge that yet. So I'm not going to speculate on what the result should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u120	Mr. Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u121	I have to keep going, don't I? That's what you mean. I was going to, and I am going to do so now, ask the Minister to make a commitment to inform us more about the precise relationship between the right of assent at institutional level and the envisaged quality agreements at central level. For the time being, my group would like at least to see the necessary financial impetus being given in such a way that higher education is returned to the fundamental task of training students to the highest possible level of knowledge, understanding and skills. By this I mean an actual enrichment of knowledge and insight, not the production of diplomas. This enrichment is, after all, the demonstrable and maximum social and economic benefit of higher education. In this context, I would ask the Minister to consider also the standards of testing or parameters which are manageable and therefore need a certain quantitative impact, but which measure the achievement of the necessary ambitions in a more positive way. I would like to join with the interesting observations made by Mr Bruijn and Mr Sent on this point. In fact, the question is: can we make agreements that do not force the institutions to achieve easier ambitions, such as increase in returns, and then we have to accept that the level of education is falling? That is my final question to the Minister. In conclusion, I would like to make no secret that this bill has been discussed several times in depth within my group. In my contribution, I indicated where we see the benefits and where there are hesitations. My group has therefore not yet come to the conclusion that the intended benefits of the new system for the quality of higher education outweigh a number of negative effects. In other words, giving a final judgment will depend much on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u122	Very briefly and very quickly, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mr Engels distanced himself quite a bit from quantitative parameters, in particular from study duration. He is undoubtedly aware of the research in Rotterdam, where it has long been investigated that a better student does indeed take a little longer, but not more than a year longer, and that any additional extension is actually bad and unprofitable or a good investment of resources and certainly not of the student's time. It also says that we can slow it down by improving education. What is against considering maintaining the duration of the study as a parameter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u124	I have to say, I'm having a little trouble understanding the question. So I can't answer that directly either. At what point in my speech exactly do you agree? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u125	I agree with your own argument, in which you say that we are not allowed to use criteria such as return, and then expressed in terms of time, rather than students who spend a little longer on it. That's already been investigated. The better student does take a little longer. This was also the subject of the short-student bonus, which some mistakenly called "long-student fine." The student who spends more than a year on it falls into the category that some people call "lapswans."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u126	Lap swans are never good, of course. I do not recall having spoken very specifically about certain aspects of the question of how to assess the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u127	What is Mr Engels' opinion on the fact that this loan system is in breach of the IVESCR Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u128	It's just a question of whether it is. I am aware very recently that this question has been asked. So I think it would be best to wait and see how the Minister reacts and then assess how serious that problem is. I don't want to react to that out of my head, with the chance that what I'm saying doesn't fit in with reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-eerstekamer-3.u129	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
