ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery. In particular, I welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. He will answer all the questions that were asked last Tuesday. First, he will indicate the design of his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I know the President would appreciate it if I gave an indication of the latter. Let me make some introductory remarks first. Next, I will talk about space to renew and innovate in the Netherlands, about space to undertake, about international affairs and about future-proof energy supply. Finally, I will deal with the amendments. In the first part, space for innovation and innovation, I will focus on the generic tools that we have at our disposal: top sectors policy, ICT, smart industry, future-proof regulation and start-ups. In the second part, scope for action, I will focus on funding, limiting regulatory burden and various other issues relating to entrepreneurship. For the third strand, international affairs, I will focus on foreign investment in the Netherlands, inbound tourism and our Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2016. For the fourth and final part, the future-proof energy supply, I will start with various topics and then I will focus on renewable energy, energy saving, energy innovation, and heat and mining. As we know, mining in our country mainly consists of gas extraction. I'm trying to build up my answer about this. We'll see what comes of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Before the Minister goes any further, I would like to make the following point. I forgot to mention that I allow five interruptions per group in this debate. At least we're gonna try to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. A few spokesmen said some words of appreciation. I know the spokesmen and I also know that those words were intended primarily for my staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	I apologise for interrupting the Minister, but I would like to comment on the President's proposal. I certainly see the added value of limiting the number of interruptions, but I think five interruptions for the whole debate are very little. The debate also covers the subject of energy; with one or two more interruptions it will be all right. The chairman smiles at me nicely and I see that she also sees the added value of my proposal. If it allows seven short, quick and good interruptions, which, by the way, do not need to be used, we have a little more room for debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	The clerk's advice was: bet on a little less, then you come up with a little more. I thought I had made a reasonable proposal with five interruptions. My proposal is to keep the number of interruptions at five for the time being. If you're in trouble, we can see if I can add any more interruptions. However, five interruptions are spacious. Last year I also chaired the sitting and allowed four interruptions. The Chamber was fine with that at the time. Let us start with five interruptions and not discuss them further, because that is a waste of time. We're just gonna get started, and if it turns out there's a problem, we're gonna look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	I would like to respond briefly to that. I'm not gonna be chased. We have all day before this debate. If we make good agreements in the beginning, that can also give us a lot of time. I'm not gonna be chased by people who say, "Come on, Kees, let's get started!" It has been shown more often that this takes time. Last year the subject of energy was not discussed in the debate, but this year it was. The spokesmen on this issue also need interruptions, and they will only get to the end of the debate. It is fine to take five interruptions as a directive, but at the end we should not be very rigid when a spokesperson wants to ask an important question about energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	I think that was exactly the proposal. I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for summing that up once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	I thanked the spokesmen. Most spokesmen spoke a few words of appreciation. I know the spokesmen and I know that they are primarily intended for the officials of Economic Affairs. I very much share the appreciation of the spokesmen. The Ministry of Economic Affairs works, cooperates and networks with great commitment and at a high level. I believe that this has also made a substantial contribution to the economic improvement we are experiencing at the moment. This improvement has been achieved primarily by the entrepreneurs and the people who work in the companies, including all those workers. I would also like to mention the efforts of all those involved in research and innovation. That's thousands of them. They are not only engaged in research and innovation, but they are also focused on getting all the things that they know are important for society into business as soon as possible, so that industry can make products that it can then benefit from. In addition to the people at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the people involved in research and innovation, I would also like to mention those who ensure that we have a well-functioning government in this country: the civil servants in the provinces and the municipalities. I constantly see in Economic Affairs how good the work they do is for employment and the economy. It is the civil servants, but also the representatives of the people, the elected and appointed directors, who work there every day for a well-functioning government. This is a crucial factor for the country's locational environment and for the attractiveness of our country for companies from abroad that invest here and now account for 2 million jobs in the Netherlands. The spokespersons expect me to start telling them how well the Dutch economy is doing. Mr Verhoeven has already specifically invited me to this. I certainly won't let him down. The world knows the Netherlands as the country of Philips and of Heineken, the second beer brewer of the world to be active in 178 countries in the world. I call Unilever; the most modern detergents factories in China are from Unilever. ASML supplies the vast majority of all chip-producing machines in the world. FrieslandCampina is one of the largest dairy companies in the world. But the Netherlands is also the country of the start-ups that have shaken up the markets. That started with Booking.com and then continued with TravelBird, with Blendle and now with Adyen, to name just a few. We are also the country of the start-ups that are currently growing, the next generation. To mention one: Dezima Pharma was founded three years ago from the Amsterdam Academic Medical Center, has grown with a credit from Economic Affairs and has just been sold for an amount of up to 1.4 billion euros. That's a real jumper, but that's how there are a lot of them back there. I also know another company that had one man in service three years ago, but expected to have 400 employees next year. So there is a lot of growth in the start-ups in the Netherlands. We are also the country of Q-Tech, set up by engineers from Delft University of Technology. From the beginning they were supported by the government and TNO. They are now working with Microsoft and Intel on the computers of the future. That computer technology, that quantum technology, is being developed there in Delft. We are also the land of Allseas, also from Delft, and from Shell in The Hague. These two companies have built the two largest ships in the world and are now taking them into operation. We are the land of the most modern car factory in the world. If you look in Born, you'll see 1,200 of these robots. It's one forest of robots! It started there after the restart of the company with 1,200 employees, but in the coming years it will grow to thousands more employees. We are also the country of three excellent mainports, as parts of the best infrastructure in the world. Then, as the Minister for Economic Affairs, you can only be optimistic when it comes to the economic potential of our country. That does not alter the fact that we also see what is going on in the world. We are not closing our eyes to that. We know what is happening in Russia, how things are going economically in Brazil and how things are going less in China. We know that interest rates are very low and that this leads to low inflation. There are, of course, uncertainties in the world. Look also at what is happening in the Middle East and at the uncontrolled flow of immigration that has led to Europe. There are certainly risks, but I am convinced that if you, as a country and as a society, have the chance to offer solutions and stability, you can contribute to improvements throughout the world. As you succeed better, you will also succeed in maintaining prosperity and employment in your own country in the future. I was actually the only one in 2013 who said that the Netherlands should not focus on a growth rate of 1. I based myself on the conviction that it could be more than that and that the pre-crisis rates of 2%, more than 2%, would be feasible again for the Netherlands. I based myself on the strength of the Dutch entrepreneurs, who, with their products and services, always seem to be able to compete on the world market. I also based myself on the high labour productivity of Dutch workers. Although they work less hours than workers in other countries, their labour productivity is very high. I also based myself on the quality of scientific research in the Netherlands and on the collaboration that we have organized in a very natural way, which everyone also sees as positive. Collaboration is taking place between all research institutes in the Netherlands, between various governments, provinces, municipalities and Rijk, and companies, whether organised by industry or not. Those are the facts that speak for themselves. That is the strength of the Netherlands. Despite a dramatic fall in natural gas revenues since 2013, there has been an annual reduction of EUR 8.5 billion in natural gas revenues; EUR 8.5 billion, you agree that growth is expected to be 2% this year. A 2.4% growth is expected next year. IMF has just analyzed the expected lower growth of the world economy for next year. For the Netherlands, however, more economic growth is expected. Where the world as a whole is falling, according to the IMF, the Netherlands will be able to do better next year. We also see that the expectation of economic growth for the Netherlands is 0.5% higher both this year and next year compared to the euro area. We are not getting that economic growth and the positive things I have just mentioned, on our own. That's not gonna blow our brains out. We must fight it all the time. I say "fight," but it's the companies that have to fight it all the time. They do that well, but on parts it can always be better. I see that in the US, in Israel, where parts are better, and in Finland. Also closer to home, in Flanders, good things happen. I mention the University of Leuven and the nanocentre that was set up there. We can learn from anything. That is typically Dutch; we are always looking for opportunities to learn and things we can do better. Our businesses, our researchers, our people working in municipalities and provinces play a crucial role in the economic growth of the Netherlands. They should be proud of each other that we are now the fifth competitive economy in the world. In 2009 we were the tenth, in 2013 the eighth and now the fifth. We continue to hold on to our position and, if possible, strengthen it. Our companies' investments grow by almost 7% in 2015 and 2016, i.e. in each of those years. Purchasing power and consumer spending continue to increase, even next year. There is growth, also in retail and catering. There's 10% growth in construction. We are the number two exporter of agricultural products, the number one exporter of machines with which microchips can be manufactured. Our companies continue to fight on the world market to achieve their turnover and maintain employment in our country. They do this mainly by providing solutions. They offer solutions in the world to the challenges facing the world. We summarize that in our motto Dutch solutions for global challenges. It concerns water supply in the world, water management, renewable energy and sustainable food supply. After these introductory remarks I would like to go into the topic of space to renew in the Netherlands. This is about innovation. Get ahead of innovation, you'll have a lot of chance. If you step behind, you'll be in trouble. Our investments in R&D increased by 0.5 billion between 2011 and 2013. We are now at an annual level of investment in research and development of 12.7 billion. That's about 2% of gross domestic product. An increasing proportion of these investments in innovation are carried out jointly by companies, public authorities and knowledge institutions. They set up PPP projects, conclude innovation contracts with each other and draw up knowledge and innovation agendas. This is organized to a large extent in the top sectors, where 88% of our research and development takes place and where we manage to grow twice as fast as in the other sectors in the Netherlands. Those are the real forerunners of our economy, and the whole economy in the Netherlands can grow up to that. The large binder in the top sectors is the TKI supplement. Innovating in the top sectors will result in a 25% TKI bonus on joint investment for innovation. We introduced this scheme a number of years ago. The budget was there then, but it could not yet be spent because we were still setting up the TKI supplement. This year, we are able to spend the total budget for the TKI supplement and make the most of it. Also for next year, the demand for the TKI bonus and the supply of joint innovation projects is already higher than the TKI offer. In fact, I am once again short of the budget in the budget. I shall return to this point when we consider the amendments. The government has generic and specific tools to support innovation. The most important generic instruments are the Wbso and the RDA. A number of spokesmen said that there would be objections to the new scheme, the merger of both schemes, that SMEs would suffer and that the money would go to large companies. The total amount of public funding for innovation support in 2016 is 2.2 billion. About 2 billion are in the generic schemes. Of these generic schemes, the Wbso and the RDA are the largest. It is therefore right that the Chamber should pay a great deal of attention to this. 23,000 companies make use of these schemes. Two thirds of all this money goes to SMEs, while they only do 41% of the research and development. There is a significant overspending of the budget towards SMEs; on the contrary, large companies are getting much less. However, I think there is much to be said for this, because innovation comes mainly from the challengers, from people who do special things, who connect things that others do not. It is mostly in SMEs, sometimes associated with large companies. I think it is justified to give 66% of the money to SMEs, although only 41% of the research and development does so. That makes us a good accent. Combining both schemes will make additional money available to SMEs. In the old Wbso scheme you got a percentage of 32 in the first disk in which a company got support. In the old RDA scheme you got a percentage of 15 in the first disk. This first disc is especially important for small companies. Now that we have combined both schemes, let us apply that 32% to the total. Small businesses now also receive 32% on non-wage costs, while they received 15% in the old RDA. Another advantage of merging both schemes is that they are also intended to attract companies from abroad. An international company always looks at the facilities in the Netherlands, England, France, Germany and Belgium and makes a choice based on them. We noticed that in what they counted as facilities from the Netherlands only the Wbso was portrayed. That was because the Wbso is a concession in the form of a reduction in the wage charge. Everyone pays payroll taxes. The RDA concerned a reduction in corporation tax. In addition, you had to wait and see if you were going to make a profit; that was not certain. This means that under the international accounting rules RDA could not be counted as a tax credit on the list that international companies draw up when comparing countries for a new location. So we spent money on an arrangement that was not sufficiently valued internationally. As we merge both schemes into a single scheme, the whole scheme is regarded as a "tax credit" scheme. This is therefore more beneficial for us to be able to attract companies from abroad. I've already indicated that companies only got RDA if they made a profit. Now that we are doing everything through the payroll tax, it is much easier for all companies to collect this tax. Here's another thing. As a company, you have to pay wage taxes all the time, while the income tax is not paid until you make a profit. It won't be established until after a few years. You'll get that money later. So with the new arrangement, you get more money and you get it sooner. In addition, for companies with foreign mothers because of the corporate tax system, there was a risk that part of the money given to Dutch daughters leaked to foreign mothers. Now that it's going through the payroll tax, there's no more risk. For small businesses in particular, it is also advantageous that we have simplified the administrative side completely when we set up a new system. The large companies are doing well, but for small businesses it is very pleasant that the administrative burden has been reduced by this regulation. Finally, the start-ups are almost always among those who do not make a profit. In the beginning you have a few men staff, you try to make a product and get on the market. Eventually, you're trying to make a profit, but that's gone for a while at first. Well, you're dealing with wage costs and payroll taxes. Starters can now also make use of the Wbso version a combination of the old Wbso and the old RDA version. To support this, the cabinet increased the budget by EUR 100 million. Moreover, we have reversed a reduction of EUR 115 million in the coalition agreement on this point. The spokesmen rightly pointed out that we removed the ceiling at the same time. In the old RDA scheme there was no ceiling on what you could get as tax support and with the old Wbso there was a ceiling. In the new Wbso there is no ceiling at all. This means that companies, including larger companies that do a lot of research and development, will be given more under the new scheme. I think that is very beneficial, because these big companies, ASML, Philips and fifteen to twenty others, are the triggers for research and development. They have a whole shell of SMEs around them that they work with. I believe that it is good for the economy as a whole that these large companies are optimally stimulated. We are ensuring that this is not at the expense of the other companies by adding the additional amounts I have just mentioned to the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	The Minister gives a fair picture of all the advantages and disadvantages of the scheme. In particular, the benefits come out well, but the great demand for a number of groups is: does this result in a balance between SMEs and large companies? The Minister's statement is no. But it can't be that and the big companies are going to benefit because the ceiling disappears and that foreign companies that have a branch here but that don't pay Vpb in the Netherlands are now going to benefit? That can't be both true, can it? Surely this should be at the expense of SMEs if you look at this as a percentage of the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	No, the leak to foreign mothers is stopped with the new scheme. An additional 100 million will be available for this merger. In the percentages, the different tariff groups we used, we were already ahead of the 115 million cut. So, with the removal of that leak, with the reversal of the 115 million cut and the extra 100 million available, my analysis is that the ratio between SMEs and large companies will remain the same. At the moment, 66% are going to SMEs. On the basis of our knowledge of the arrangements and the likely developments, my expectation is that they will continue to be so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr President, on a point of order. Do we do it in half or in threes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	In twos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	Fine. The point is a little bit that I get the feeling that this part is going to be a bit of a well-being between the Minister and the Chamber, which is being prosecuted after the autumn recess when the Tax Plan is being dealt with, because then we will discuss the specific regulation with Secretary of State Wiebes. Can the Minister offer us more comfort on the assumption that this distribution remains the same? Is there a calculation available at the Ministry that we can give hands and feet to, which we can look at? That would help us in that discussion. Because if the Minister is right, then it is a very different story than that part of the Chamber would be right. If it is based on facts, then it is better to have those facts as clear as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	It cannot yet be based on hard facts, because it will only apply from 2016. I don't have the facts until then. At the end of 2016, at the beginning of 2017, I can only give information about this to the Chamber, but I now have to make the best possible assessment. Of course, I'm not here to make excuses. SMEs are currently heavily overrepresented in this scheme. I mentioned the percentages. I'm okay with that. There are a number of advantages to this new scheme. That is why we are doing so with the new regulation. With the three points I have just mentioned, the prevention of road leakage and two additional amounts, we think we can achieve these benefits in the following year and that SMEs will not lose out. That's my sincere assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	Can the Minister indicate in a few sentences what his main purpose is of the revision of this regulation? What purpose does he want to achieve, for example by removing that ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mrs Gesthuizen asks me what the purpose of this regulation is. I'm trying very briefly to summarize what I just said. First of all, I would like to see what we have available for tax relief also have the best impact on foreign companies that are considering coming to the Netherlands. The RDA had no optimal effect. Because it is now being moved into the Wbso, that problem is solved. Secondly, we are ensuring that companies that do not pay corporation tax at the outset but only pay payroll tax can also benefit from this support, because it is those companies that need it most. If they have to wait a few years for them to make a profit, that difficult period is actually over. That is the second reason why we do so. Thirdly, SMEs are rightly heavily overrepresented in this scheme, but we should not underestimate the importance of these few dozens of large companies for the Dutch economy. ASML is the spider in the web of innovation. All suppliers of ASML are constantly stimulated by the company to innovate. It also attracts as many small companies as possible to participate. The same applies to Philips and other large companies. I would like us to take full advantage of these big companies in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	I can fully endorse the Minister's reasoning, but I do miss a little bit that the purpose of these benefits is, of course, to promote investment in innovation, whether it be tax benefits or subsidies on innovation. I believe that it has also proved that this applies to a large part of the arrangements that EZ knows and which are partly implemented by Finance. However, I would like to point out that we must remain critical of the ever-expanding of regulations. Indeed, in the past, it has been shown a number of times that it is not so easy to show how much the government invests in it, and how much additional investment it generates by the private sector. In other words, I sometimes ask myself whether the instruments we use do achieve that goal. It is a question of money being partly public money, but it is also private money being put into innovations that would not have been invested in it without these arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	This is a crucial question that we must always try to answer with evaluations of these schemes. That is why these schemes are being regularly evaluated and should continue to be so. I have also understood very well the concerns of the Chamber about small businesses. I do not share that concern, but I do share the importance that the Chamber attaches to those SMEs in terms of supporting innovation. I gave my estimate of how it's gonna be next year. I'll keep a very precise record of that. As soon as I have information about the following year in practice, I will share with the Chamber that information and the conclusions I draw from it. We are therefore simply maintaining the periodic evaluations, but because of the change in the scheme, I will share the results with the Chamber as soon as possible in practice. If there is reason to change things, then I am available to speak to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	I would like to thank the Minister for his clear answer. In doing so, it has not completely removed the CDA's concerns about access to the RDA and Wbso schemes, particularly for smaller companies. I am a bit looking for the same type of comfort that the colleague of the SGP has just put forward. I would like to look, together with the Minister, at how, as a prerequisite for the new regime, we can indicate that the 66% ratio remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	That 66% is an experience. I've indicated that they're doing 41% of the R&D and they're getting 66% of the money. That is the situation at the moment. The Chamber and I do not really want the situation to deteriorate for SMEs. On the basis of the facts I have just mentioned, I have made the best possible assessment of the impact that will occur next year. I have just indicated this, but I cannot provide any further justification because there are no hard figures yet. They won't be available until next year. I have already indicated that, apart from the evaluation, I will come to the Chamber separately with the 2016 data and my conclusions from it, and that I am available to examine with the Chamber whether that is what we meant with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	I have the impression that the Chamber and the Minister are quite close together, but we still have to look at how we can arrange it so that we do not, looking back, find that Minister and Chamber have filled things out differently and that suddenly it is not 66%, but 50%. That's not the route the CDA wants to take. In view of my second term, I'm gonna think about what I'm gonna do with this. In any case, I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	I think Mrs Mulder has a point to make here. It cannot be that if I see it coming in the course of next year that it is heading towards fifty-fifty, a different development than I have told the Chamber and then referred to the Chamber, I am waiting quietly until the end of the year to say that it has become fifty-fifty. If I see in the course of the year that there are developments in such a way that intervention is desirable earlier, then I will not fail to report this to the Chamber and to discuss it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	In fact, this minister raises 2 billion first from all companies in the Netherlands. He then redistributes that amount to some companies in the Netherlands through innovation facilities. Isn't it much smarter to give all companies the advantage and reduce the tax burden on all companies instead of redistributing 2 billion in subsidies? Tax cuts benefit all companies. Money that companies have not lost to the Tax Administration, they can spend on innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mrs Klever speaks of "some companies," but 23,000 companies participate in the Wbso and the RDA; that is a difference. All companies have an interest in keeping us at the forefront of innovation. Precisely for the companies that stick their necks out, who invest in innovation and who thus build the backbone of the Dutch economy for the future, where all companies and citizens of the European Union benefit from the general funds per year we spend for this purpose. We are not unique in that. I was recently in France, where I was very proud to be told how all this is done; that seems very much like the way we are doing this. In England this goes the same way, as in Germany. All those countries that have the ambition to remain economically strong in the future, and who see that this requires innovation, encourage the companies that invest in it, working together with governments and knowledge institutions. We do the same in the Netherlands. I think it's very good to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	The Minister thinks that's a good thing, but he doesn't know that of course. One aspect of the innovation box, for example, is that it is so complicated that small companies, which may be very innovative, need to hire experts to be eligible for these schemes. That's gonna cost so much money that they won't. So a lot of these subsidies go to the larger and established companies. The PVV thinks it's much smarter to give tax relief to all companies, so companies can know for themselves whether they are investing. Innovation can't be driven from above, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	These are 23 000 companies, 97% of which are SMEs. They get 66% of the budget together, while they do 41% of the innovation. A great deal of attention is rightly paid to SMEs. I do not see at all the objection raised by Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	I am very much in favour of the existing tax incentives, and there should be no misunderstanding about that. I have talked to the Minister many times about the innovation box. My fear is that that box will ensure that a lot of money goes to large companies based on innovation from the past. That is why I am very much in favour of the Wbso and the ceiling, because the evaluation of the Wbso shows precisely that the smaller companies actually use the money they receive to a much greater extent for innovations than large companies, where almost 70% do not go to new innovations. So this Wbso is really very important, especially if the money goes to SMEs and small start-ups. Is that why the Minister would like to reconsider that ceiling? I think it is crucial that we let as much of that Wbso money as we can go to those smaller companies, because they are really innovative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	I do not think it is wise to treat large companies unnecessarily negatively in terms of innovation. I think it is quite important that SMEs, which do 41% of research and development, receive two thirds of the budget. A lot of innovation is taking place in large Dutch companies, for example in the agricultural sector in the field of seed processing but also in nanoelectronics, lithography and in the field of new developments in health care. Mr Verhoeven also knows these large companies. He knows that if you talk to the management of such a large company, you will immediately get all the SME companies with which that company works put on a plate. It is very important that such a large company shares all the information with those SMEs. So I think that, now that two thirds of the money goes to SMEs, we are already at the limit of the reasonable compared to the big ones. I would very much like to keep these big companies as tractors. I therefore believe that this ceiling is neither useful nor necessary, because of the three points I mentioned with which we are extending the regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	I also think that large companies have added value to the Dutch economy in all kinds of ways, but we have the innovation box for that. That is the regulation that is being used specifically and above all by large companies. The evaluation of the Wbso, as well as OECD research, simply shows that schemes such as the Wbso are by far the best suited by stimulating innovation through smaller companies. That's what all the tests say. The Minister nods; he agrees with me. Then it is worrying that we remove the ceiling that causes a large part of the money to go to those smaller, innovative companies? Then, in order to further strengthen the economy and get the number one position that the Minister wants, we need to ensure that the smaller companies can make good use of government tax regulations. Then that really is a focus of policy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	If you're a small company and you're doing innovation, you'll now get 32% of the wage costs for innovation and research and development and 32% of the other costs in the form of a deduction from the wage charge. If you also use the MIT scheme, you will also receive a 40% concession. If you do it in connection with a top sector, a TKI supplement will also be available. So we are very committed to stimulating and involving SMEs. As a result, 23,000 companies participate in this scheme and two thirds of the money goes to those companies. However, we also have a great deal of interest in innovation by large companies. If you set a ceiling, there is no government stimulus available for innovation above that ceiling. You take away an incentive from the big companies, and why would you do that? Those big companies need to be excited, too. Their extra innovation is also of the utmost importance to us. Imagine being a small, start-up SME. You get the support via the Wbso and a credit from EZ because of the arrangements we have for the funding. You will also be helped with your own capital. So you're really being helped as a company. You're really innovative. You get Wbso and because of that you manage to lift your business off the ground. At some point, you're gonna have to start paying taxes. Your company is going to pay 5% tax instead of 25%. Large companies already pay 25% corporate tax to a large extent and may also, to some extent, be covered by the 5% innovation box rate. However, if you are a start-up company that has been created entirely with innovation, you get all the benefits first and then pay only 5% tax. So we go very far in stimulating innovation, especially for SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	I have already said something about the top sectors. 88% of the research and development of the Netherlands takes place. At present, the top sectors are growing twice as fast as the entire economy of the Netherlands. The economy of the Netherlands is growing by 2% this year. In the top sectors, it goes twice as fast. There are also more and more cooperation projects. Thus, companies in the top sectors are increasingly seeking consultation with public authorities and knowledge institutions. We currently have 3,500 projects in which there is cooperation. Those are small projects. There are also major projects. For example, see what the big companies in the center do for nanolithography in Amsterdam. That's really groundbreaking. I also mention QuTech in Delft. In something aimed at a ten-year or longer period, we are currently putting EUR 141 million into the public sector to help it get started. It also contains tens of millions of Microsoft and Intel. We are really working in the long term in these top sectors, and in what comes out of the top sectors, on cooperation and strengthening our economy. So I am very positive about the current situation in the top sectors. The Chamber has often indicated that we should not regard the top sectors as separate sectors, but should, above all, look at cross-links. The Chamber is quite right about that. We are. In particular, there is a great deal of innovation around the interlinkages of the sectors. We're also very focused on doing that. You can see that more and more top sectors are also working together on projects. On the Mkb Innovation Incentive scheme Top sectors, the MIT scheme, I have already indicated that we also place a strong emphasis on SMEs in the top sectors. Every top team leading a top sector has an SME. In addition, the schemes are designed so that the smaller companies are given more than the larger ones. With the MIT scheme, we support SMEs who want to participate in the top sectors. This requires feasibility studies and the like. They can get compensation for that. With the Van Veen/Vos motion, extra money has become available. In line with that, next year I will make available 35 million in budget for the MIT scheme. The provinces add another 20 million. So next year there will be an amount of 55 million available. Mr Bosman was concerned because cooperation in the North Holland region is not very well organized, unlike other parts of the country where it is. Entrepreneurs in the North Holland region can participate in the 55 million pot. In spite of the absence of a provincial contact point, they can still participate in this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	It is important that the doubler act and that the province of Noord-Holland recognizes the importance of this. If money is available from the Empire and that can be doubled, it is much better for the economy, including North Holland. Why shouldn't we bet mainly on the doubles and not on the few, especially given the fact that the registration is overwritten?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	I am careful with criticism of North Holland, because North Holland is very active in some other way. I am thinking, for example, of the project Pallas. This is a very innovative project for a nuclear research reactor for the future. Noord-Holland has a great responsibility, also in the financial sense, to lift that project off the ground. They do it their own way. They are also looking at regional development companies, as has already been organised in all the other provinces. They're looking at how they can do it their way. In any case, I will ensure that the entrepreneurs in North Holland can benefit from this scheme through the general provision we have available. I share Mr Bosman's view that it would be nice if this facility were also fully available in North Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	We must, of course, be cautious, because it is the role of the province, and that is not our concern, but I would ask the Minister to have that conversation with the province of Noord-Holland with all due care. There are opportunities to accelerate and improve this for the entrepreneurs of Noord-Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	I will have that conversation, as Mr Bosman wishes. I will also highlight the positive things that exist in North Holland and which I very much appreciate. I'm still working on the first part. I have had the generic tools and the top sectors policy. Now I get to the ICT and the smart industry. Mr Verhoeven, Mrs Mulder and Mr Bosman stressed the importance of ICT for the economy. I am very aware of that. I also think there's more we can do. The United States of America invests more in ICT than we do. We are not looking at all those countries that are doing less. On the ranking of countries with good ICT infrastructure and a good ICT potential to exploit, we are in fourth place in the world, but that is not what I am talking about. I see a few countries where things are even better. I'm just trying to figure out how to get that. Our ICT infrastructure is really very good. We have the biggest internet hub in the world. Most of the Internet cables between America and Europe land in the Netherlands. The Internet speed is very high here. We have the second safest infrastructure in terms of Internet service in the world. Large data centers are currently being set up, by Microsoft in North Holland and by Google in Groningen. We also see a large number of online transactions of companies with their customers. There are only three countries in the world where there are more transactions than here in the Netherlands. That's very broad. Our entire society, businesses and consumers, is making use of ICT opportunities in this form. We must ensure that we make the most of ICT opportunities in our economy. This includes looking at what you can do in agriculture and horticulture, industry, process industry and maintenance sectors. Furthermore, you need to see how you can make the most of the available big data. You also need to see how to deliver much more customisation with ICT, allowing you to meet customers' needs faster and better. I'm very motivated to do that. Within the top sectors policy, we have created a separate roadmap for this with ambitions and an agenda that we want to have realised. Here's a separate team set up with a separate figurehead. Over the next two years, 40 million will be available for targeted research by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO), TNO and Economic Affairs together. We are currently working particularly hard on industrial application. We've already informed the Chamber that we want to organize ten field labs. Many companies can set up the use of ICT in the design of industrial production in the future in their own company, but you also have companies that are too small for that. We bring these companies together in field labs scattered across the country. I opened the first field lab in Rijen myself. Three other field labs have also started all or part of it. I think we are getting eight and maybe even ten running this year. They're not all running at full speed right now, but I think they'll all do it in the middle of next year. With these field labs we have set in motion a good provision. In industry, special lecturers for smart industry are used. Good cooperation with schools and universities is now under way. We will use our Presidency to try to reach a European approach to smart industry as well. Following on from what is happening in Germany at this point, they call it "Industry 4.0" in my opinion and at the smart industry in the Netherlands, we want to ensure that Europe makes a supportive contribution to this. Our Presidency is a good way of helping that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	What about funding from the Ministry for the field labs? How exactly does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	The Ministry has some of the funding available, but the large amounts must come from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European financing option. The ERDF assesses the plans and assesses whether they are good enough to invest European money in them. There is now a problem, because some plans have not been assessed positively. We must therefore come up with new plans and ensure that the other plans are better, also in the eyes of those who assess this for the European Commission. We're working on all these things. When you put on something new, you always run into trouble. Within the current framework, I believe it is possible to get the ten field labs, the ambition we have, to run for the most part this year and next year all full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	There are some concerns about the ERDF with regard to the speed with which things are being picked up. To what extent does the Minister see a risk in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	There's a risk. We will look at what is needed to bridge the possible gap in the interim period. These aren't special things. The room indicates the main line. She said she thinks ICT, smart industry and field labs are important. It is then up to me to identify the problems I encounter and to solve them myself. That's what I was hired for. I'll try to do the same with the field labs. Mr Verhoeven mentioned fablabs. He thought, "Everyone knows about the field labs now, so I'm gonna start talking about fablabs." It's good that he's doing this. In fablabs, advanced manufacturing techniques such as 3D printers, laser cutters and milling machines transform entrepreneurial ideas into a tangible product or first a tangible prototype. These fablabs are already on a proper scale; there are already dozens of them scattered throughout the land. They are often associated with high schools or universities. In this way, companies are involved in the school or university, and I think that we should, above all, continue to do so. It's gonna work itself out. The schools are enthusiastic and thus come to very concrete cooperation with the companies. The companies, who are always looking for good people, come to work together with schools that they do not see as bureaucratic or administrative, but rather as very practical focused on things that are of interest to them. So those fablabs are coming into being by themselves right now. I do not see any financing problem at the moment. The fablabs are partly paid by the companies and partly by the schools. If there are requests for ERDF or TKI aid, we will look at it. The MIT is also conceivable for the participating companies. That is why I believe that we should let the fablabs go. They got there and they're turning right. We can look at how this is developing, and if there is a demand for the use of existing instruments, I am in principle prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	Madam President. Perhaps you could take my comment as a small point of order. Is it possible that we speak Dutch in this house? I just got an e-mail from a man who says he can't follow anything the minister says. He doesn't know those weird words and abbreviations. Maybe it's okay if the minister and his officials translate everything into normal Dutch. We live in the Netherlands and we have nothing with all these American abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	I think field lab is a title; I just asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	I sympathize with Mr Graus. I will try to express myself in Dutch as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u45	That is a fine intention of Mr Graus, but I am getting e-mails about the language of the PVV group in this house. Let us try to cross immediately. The word fablabs is just a translation. It's fine not to use English terms, but I also often get emails about the language of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u46	This was a point of order. I very much agree with Mr Graus, as does the Minister. We must try to express ourselves in Dutch here as much as possible and the Minister has taken it up in this way. I think we should leave that other point alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u47	Of course, I feel challenged and I would like to respond briefly. Mr Verhoeven may find what he wants, but Jan with the hat can follow everything we say here. We speak clear and clear language. That may often be street language, but the PVV is understood by everyone. The people understand what we mean, I say, through you, Madam President, to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u48	This point is then made as a personal fact. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u49	I go into the section space to renew further with future-proof laws and regulations. Mr Verhoeven and Mr Bosman and his colleagues have already drawn attention to this in the Chamber. I really feel like doing this, and the lawyers at the Ministry are very excited about that. We can see very clearly that developments are moving faster. That's not a killer. I compare the introduction of the steam engine with the speed with which products are introduced in this era of Internet information technology, which is often used by the whole world over a period of three or four years. Things are going a lot faster these days. This means that, in practice, our way of dealing with legislation, in which we define very precisely what is going on and how we think it should be done, is often obstructive because new developments are not taken into account. Such developments then run into these laws and regulations, whereas we have an interest in achieving these new developments. If I had not just made that commitment to Mr Graus, I would now have mentioned Airbnb or Uber and I would have talked about drones, but I am not doing that now. Now the question is how to adapt the laws and regulations. If I want to beat the whole process to death, I'm now rigging up a state committee, I'm giving her a whole stack of law books and saying, "Go renew it all and make it future-proof." Then in 2024 we hear a stand-up of that and we don't buy much for that. That's why we're gonna do it the following way. We talked about it in the cabinet. All colleagues agree that we need to do this and we are looking for concrete possibilities for this. For example, my colleague from I and M knows that companies consider it important to be able to experiment with self-driving cars, not only on test runs but also on the public road. They will have the opportunity to do so. Drones are also developing very quickly. A solution is being sought for this. In this way, we are also working on the taxi bill and the Building Decree. And take something very simple as a taxi driver who is obliged to give a receipt to his client. You can do that digitally now. That's gonna save you a lot. Cargo manifests all had to be on paper, and now it's digital. This will save businesses between EUR 300 million and EUR 400 million per year. In this way, we are primarily working in practice to see what happens and what businesses run into. Together with these companies, we are trying to find solutions for this. One example is the storage of electricity in batteries. Mr Vos drew attention to this and said that we should make use of our large car park. I had a conversation with Elon Tusk about that. I agreed with him that we're gonna do that together. He and his company are going to report what they want and how they want it. After that, we will look together at the rules for this in the Netherlands. We're gonna find a solution to that together, so that he and his company can just get the room for what they want at this point. With such partnerships and this working from the practical point of view, I want to address this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u50	I welcome the cooperation between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Elon Musk and the innovations we can look forward to in the Netherlands in the field of electric traffic. I think that's a really great point. I just assumed the Minister just called in the steam engine. He said it took 100 years for the steam engine to spread well around the world. That is important, because we are now in fifth place of the most competitive economies, as has been said several times. But the steam engine only arrived in the Netherlands in the second half of the nineteenth century. That happened 100 years after it conquered England. At that time the Netherlands was lagging behind and we were not at all such a competitive country. The Minister's example therefore shows that the Netherlands must constantly stay on track. I have two questions for the Minister. What about the ECB survey, which again shows this year that the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom when it comes to lending to SMEs? I still cannot do that research: we score worse than Greece and all the other European countries, and that is really very special. I have also drawn attention to the unicorns, the unicorns, the companies that create more than 1 billion values and lots of new jobs within ten years. Those companies go abroad too often. Would the Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u51	Certainly, I would like to address both points, but I have been asked to indicate how I am building the case, also because some groups have several spokesmen and would like to know when their spokesmen should be present. As far as funding is concerned, I come back extensively to the next part, "space to undertake." On the unicorns too, I would have mentioned them first, but after Mr Graus I now also call them unicorns. If Mr Vos is okay with it, I will do it that way. I would also like to thank him for the correction, because 'Tusk' is the President of the European Council and 'Musk' is Elon, who set up Tesla among others. So I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u52	That's all right, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u53	This was the block about future-proof regulation and how we intend to deal with it. Mr Bosman has asked whether this whole process can be speeded up. That route can be accelerated if the entrepreneurs, like Musk, also invest energy to help me in it. I constantly ask the sectors to tell me what is going on with them and what they want, with the intention of looking together to see if they are hampered by rules and to find solutions together. Often companies have other things on their mind, they are very busy and they don't get very close to it. Above all, it is my job to get the sectors excited, to involve them in this issue and to work with them. The more I succeed in getting the entrepreneurs to report to me and get them to think with me, I will be able to speed it up. I intend, by the way, to present this item separately to the Chamber. I intend to present the first results of that process to the Chamber before the end of the year, as requested by Mr Verhoeven. Then, if the Chamber so wishes, we can discuss this subject a little further. In the context of the area to renew, I would like to say something about the start-ups. In particular, the VVD Group has called for a lot of attention to this in 2013 but also in 2014, and has submitted a note on it. That's the part we picked up, also out of conviction. We've done a lot for start-ups, but it's never enough. From start-ups, we need to talk about it in the future. That's where the new jobs are. So we need to hold the start-ups in the Netherlands as much as possible and offer their facilities, but we also want to attract start-ups from other parts of the world and get them to the Netherlands. To this end, we have set up an organisation: StartupDelta. In other words, Mrs Kroes did so. I feel very privileged that Mrs Kroes spends one and a half years of her time building facilities for start-ups in the Netherlands. It is therefore very nice to see that, according to an international ranking, the Dutch start-up ecosystem is already the fastest growing in Europe right now, after those of Berlin and London. We're trying to hold on to that. In the coming years, we will take new initiatives. One of these initiatives is that from the year 2017 we have released EUR 50 million for the bottlenecks felt by start-ups. For this we already have many solutions and facilities, which we have made accessible in a toolbox for all start-ups. We are still looking at what is possible and have already been able to make money available for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u54	The CDA is also a warm supporter of the success of start-ups, because they are the new SMEs and perhaps ultimately the big companies of the future. However, we also see a bottleneck in today's SMEs, which has had quite a pinch due to the crisis that has lasted for many years. Those companies are also looking to strengthen equity. One of the problems is obtaining credit from a bank, credit union or crowdfunding platform. Our question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to let that money, the EUR 50 million, also reach SMEs and not just start-ups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u55	But it is the SMEs that are in that start-up atmosphere. For example, you started a business and you want to boost it with innovation, you want to grow further. It can be inserted into that atmosphere. We have a lot of facilities for SMEs, which I will come back to when it comes to financing. I have already indicated what we are all doing in terms of innovation. I think that what we are doing about innovation and what we are doing about funding is working well. We now have an amount specifically earmarked for start-ups and SMEs that are also moving in that sphere. Just to be sure, in anticipation of what Mrs Mulder would say today, I have identified this amount in the 2017 documents as "start-up/mkb'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u56	Great that the CDA's desire to look at SMEs in particular is taken into account in this way. Thank you for that. There is a great need for equity. If the Minister finds out at the end of next year that it might be possible to go ahead, that would be very nice. Is that perhaps one of the possibilities, without us having to reserve money for it right now? Is the Minister prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u57	I can't. Firstly, we do not have the money next year. Secondly, this must be done through adjustments to tax regulations, and we simply need the year 2016. First, we have to choose between the various options. Once that choice has been made, all this must then be developed technically. It is already ambitious to allow this to happen from 1 January 2017. I'm gonna move on to funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u58	Then I'd like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u59	Now, or would you like to wait and see if that question might be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u60	The question has already been addressed in the written answer and the point is perfectly in line with start-ups. I have already complimented the Minister on the fact that he is doing a lot about start-up policy. In the first term, I referred to laws in the Ministry of Security and Justice. The Minister replied in writing, but I would like to ask a question about this. There are really a number of laws coming in that are not only bad for privacy, but also for the economic climate of establishment. Companies such as Google and Microsoft, as well as smaller companies and industry organisations, I also mention the AMS-IX internet hub, which have indicated that they are very dangerous laws at the expense of the digital location climate of the Netherlands. The Minister says he has an eye for it, but what can and will he say in the Council of Ministers to his colleague in the Ministry of Security and Justice to ensure that the bad, sharp edges of these laws go off?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr Verhoeven knows that I used to be a fiscal detective and that I understand people who say they need certain tools to be effective in combating crime and terrorism. Part of that is that you are aware of any threats. It also includes getting acquainted with digital traffic. I understand what Security and Justice are thinking about this, but as Minister for Economic Affairs I also have a great understanding of what Mr Verhoeven is putting forward. Being able to communicate with each other in good faith, getting data available in good faith, is important for economic development. It is important not only for the day-to-day functioning of a company, but also for exploiting growth opportunities. I see that tension; I think that Mr Verhoeven has a very valid point. I don't have a solution yet. We need to talk about it well from the different angles. I will do so because I think it is necessary to put this important point together from the point of view of security and justice and from the point of view of economic affairs, so that we can discuss it with Mr Verhoeven and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u62	We're all going to deal with these laws in the Chamber. D66 will, of course, participate in this. My point is not that I want to reject laws that enhance the security of data and communication. Absolutely not, on the contrary, but in these laws there are a number of elements that relate to data collection, to towing nets, to breaking into smartphones and computers. Companies that store customer data get the idea that those data are no longer safe. There's a point there. I see that the Minister has a real eye for that and I really hope that he really makes a point of this with his colleagues. Of course, we will make the point again in the legal process. I am pleased that the Minister is committed to this, because it is a real concern and it can really mean that our high position on all kinds of rankings is at risk. Many companies say that in this case they will not be in the Netherlands, but in Denmark and Belgium. I really hope the Minister will do everything in his power to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u63	I have little desire to contradict Mr Verhoeven. I think that the international aspect he is stressing must certainly be included in the considerations that we must make. I will ensure that both the economic and the international aspects will be properly highlighted. On the occasion of these laws being dealt with, but perhaps before that on the basis of a letter containing our policy, we will discuss this with the Chamber. I think this is an important point for the future. I come to the subject of "space to undertake." I will start with the funding. We see that the financing market in the Netherlands has shrunk. Loans to the Dutch business sector have shrunk. Over the past three years, it has fallen by 10%. We are now slightly below 300 billion in terms of the total volume of funding. This decline was largely due to the fall in demand due to the crisis. There were just fewer companies and companies asked for less money. At the same time, the banks have become more cautious. That was also absolutely necessary, because the banks have suffered enormous losses on loans. Three of the four banks had to be saved by the government. There was therefore a need for a clean-up. However, as the economy is growing again and the demand for credit is growing again, it is necessary in the Netherlands for the banks to regain their role and for alternatives to bank financing to come up. I know that many more applications for funding are rejected in the Netherlands than in other countries. Part of that is that there are quite a few companies in the Netherlands that have sufficient own resources and can finance their plans in this way. However, given the number of applications rejected by companies applying for funding, there is a real problem. That problem needs to be solved. Mr Vos mentioned this, as did Mr Öztürk. I think we can at least see that there is an improvement at the moment. According to the ECB's so-called SAFE survey, around 39% of applications from small and medium-sized enterprises as a whole were rejected in the Netherlands. According to the last SAFE survey we received from the ECB, the rejection rate is now 17. From 39% we have thus gone to 17%. That's a big improvement. I do not quite know how this goes through in the other statistics that I get at this point; I am not quite sure yet. It is a signal that it is moving in the right direction, but we still have to improve considerably on this point. For this reason, a comprehensive package of measures to support business financing has already been put in place for three consecutive budgets. As we know, what is going on in the area of crowdfunding, credit unions and so on is being drawn by Economic Affairs. We finance this, we encourage it, we help with the regulation and we help providers to get started in this area. In the period between 2009 and mid-2015 we have made a total of 10 billion financing possible for business. Thanks to the instruments that have been made available in the last three years for the budgetary treatment, it is expected that we will be able to obtain an additional 9 billion in funding in the period from mid-2015 to 2018. So we're talking about 10 billion in the period I just described between 2009 and 2015, in six years. In addition, I expect another 9 billion to be available in the next three years. So I really think we're getting this thing going right now. That's what needed to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u64	I very much appreciate the efforts made in recent years by the Minister in response to several requests from my group, among others, to increase lending to businesses. I also see that this is a result. Nevertheless, I note that the situation in the Netherlands is at least suboptimal. I have already mentioned the ECB investigation in which we are at the very bottom. The Minister says that the banks have taken measures and that this is a good thing. I disagree with him. The banks simply think that the transaction costs for small businesses are too high, they all find it too complicated and they just push small businesses aside. We have seen the worst case at Deutsche Bank, which has just thrown all those customers out at once. That's outrageous. Our businesses must be able to grow, but, according to the European Central Bank's research, they have the least chance of getting credit from all the companies in Europe. I want to see why the ECB inquiry reports on this in the way it has been done over and over again, year after year, and why we have now fallen to the very last place. I'd like a statement from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u65	In any case, it is a good thing for Mr Vos to find that the ECB's one-after-last investigation involved 39% rejection of SMEs and 17% at the moment. At least that's a good trend. He may also find it pleasurable that, where we first received 10 billion public funding in six years' time, we get about the same amount of money available in the three years ahead. He will have seen that we have continued with our assurances. We have maintained and extended these instruments. He will have seen that we have made arrangements to strengthen SMEs' own capital, which will also make it easier for them to attract debt. He will have seen that we have created the NLII with institutional investors. The NLII is now setting up two funds. One of these two funds provides subordinated loans to SMEs which are also classified as equity capital. He will also have seen that we have further encouraged and developed Qredits. Qredits can now give loans for larger amounts, up to €250,000. I see the problem mentioned by Mr Vos. It is not yet going well in terms of funding and much remains to be done, but a lot is already happening. Let us not underestimate what we have achieved over the last three years. We see that the ECB's results are now pointing in the right direction. We have speeded up funding provided by state aid. Let us try to hold on to that and come to a position on funding, which is appropriate for the Netherlands in Europe in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u66	As I said earlier, I greatly appreciate what the Minister has done. However, I have less appreciation for the way our banking system has dealt with small entrepreneurs, small self-employed people. A lot has gone wrong. The fact that credit applications are now improving and the fact that the percentage has fallen from 39 to 17, of which I say: to me hula! Of course it's better. The economy is back on track, the risks are falling, so companies are getting better funding. This is happening all over Europe. But what the Minister is absolutely right about is that we are still dangling at the bottom and that nothing is actually happening. I appreciate the Minister very much, but I have much less appreciation for not saying: the reverse for the banks in the Netherlands. My question is still: how is it that year after year the European Central Bank finds that we are doing worse than Greece and all the other countries in the European Union when it comes to lending to our small businesses and entrepreneurs who work so hard to create jobs in the Netherlands and earn a living?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u67	There are several reasons for the latter. One reason is that we provide much funding through the banks, much more than in other countries. The banks have become reluctant as a result of the losses suffered. Another reason is that a number of companies do not need bank financing because they can save themselves. Especially in the companies that need bank financing, there appears to be relatively little own capital, especially if you compare that with a country like Germany. There are therefore several reasons for the current situation. That is not good, and I agree with Mr Vos; that needs to be addressed. I do not see the banks as an obstacle. The banks are now also focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises. I can see that in their communication, too. Qredits is financed by the banks. I believe that we have a real problem and that we are working on a number of good solutions. The banks play a role in this. Nor should the influence of the State on the banks be underestimated. Two out of four large banks currently own the State. In this way, too, we can monitor the matter, if necessary, and steer it in the direction we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u68	The Minister does a great deal about it, as Mr Vos rightly says, but the figures we get and the discussions we have with entrepreneurs simply show that it is not enough. I'll get the Minister's letter out myself. Panteia's finance monitor says literally: 44% rejections of small businesses in 2015. So that's not 39%. I do not want to discuss the figures, but we are at the last place in Europe. Why can't the Minister give a concrete undertaking that next year, when we stand here again, we won't be at that lowest level? What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms? He doesn't make it with what he's doing now; let's be honest about that. He needs to do something more. Mr Vos is right to point in the direction of tackling these banks! The Minister can do so in the way he wants, as long as it ultimately ensures that small SMEs get credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u69	That I'm not concrete is, with all due respect, nonsense. I am very specific when it comes to financing. We have presented a series of very concrete measures in three successive budgets. We also see that this has an effect. Where Mr Öztürk and I disagree on the figures, it is because he uses a figure for small SMEs one time and another for SMEs as a whole. One time it is figures that come from us or from a research institute in the Netherlands. I have just given the ECB's figures because Mr Vos mentioned them. In any case, there is improvement at the moment. It was also absolutely necessary to improve. What I have not yet said is that, in addition to all the measures we have taken, we have now achieved a very important provision for entrepreneurs. It's about everything that comes along when you need finance as a company. How can you get information about funding opportunities? Who do you end up with? Before that, we had different possibilities. Entrepreneurs could go to the Chamber of Commerce. They could also go to the Dutch Association of Banks or to the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands. We have interwoven all these different websites and opportunities for entrepreneurs into one finance guide, linked to Entrepreneursplein.nl, the Digital Chamber of Commerce. This means that everyone can get all the information through that single funding guide. We have now also attached a helpdesk to it, so that you can also be asked by telephone about any questions you still have. Behind that we are creating a facility that can deal with requests for funding and pass it on to those who can provide funding. In this way, too, we are working to improve these matters. The spokesmen have outlined a real problem. The cabinet also recognises this and is working hard on it, very concretely, also in cooperation with banks. We are trying to move quickly towards a situation that fits the position of the Netherlands in the world, and that is not at this point at the bottom of a ranking list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u70	You're not gonna make it through a website, Minister. You know that, too. These EUR 10 billion of your measures are only 10 billion out of the 300 billion we are talking about. You're just not gonna make it. The central question is what you're going to do with those banks. Are you gonna sit down with those four sofas? Are you going to encourage them to re-credit the small SMEs, the engine of our economy, the job engine? You don't save these people with a website here and a watering can over there and a patch here. Come up with concrete, decisive solutions to the banks! The banks are just losing out on SMEs. Take them now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u71	If Mr Öztürk says that I can't manage with a web site here and a watering machine there, that only says something about his incomprehension of the situation. If you are an entrepreneur, have a plan and want information, you can go to Entrepreneurplein.nl, where you can find all the possibilities that entrepreneurs have and all the things that have to do with entrepreneurship. You can get everything on Entrepreneurplein.nl, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. There is a finance guide attached to this; anyone who has anything to do with funding has contributed to this and ensured that all information on funding is available. We are now working on a help desk behind it and a facility to deal with these requests for funding. You don't get any further as a parliamentarians when you talk about a website here and a watering machine there. That's just saying something about yourself, not about me or what the cabinet does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u72	I have not received an answer to my question as to what the Minister is going to do with the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u73	I have answered Mr Öztürk's questions to the grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u74	I have a point and a question. I put questions to the Minister in the first place, nine of which have been answered in writing. I find that very difficult, because we cannot debate it anymore. I'm gonna make a request to everyone who's here. I just want to debate next year. Previously, budget discussions lasted from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. to night. I don't think this is a debate anymore. It's all written.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u75	I'd like to respond to this point. I myself have been a member of this Parliament for 13 years. The Minister has indicated in which blocks he has divided his reply. Following such a block, a question which has been answered in writing can be addressed. So that space is not blocked in any way. The written response does help to make time available, so that, for example, an own-initiative proposal can be dealt with this evening. You will now have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u76	I understand. The fact remains that they are taken a little out of the Chamber because they have been answered in writing. That is, of course, also a compliment for the quality of my questions. I would like to say the following to colleagues Vos and Öztürk. The PVV has come up with a solution to the problem of banks. Consumers no longer have confidence in the banks. People want a national savings bank. They want a safe savings bank where they just get a real interest rate. That doesn't have to be an extremely high interest rate. Businesses, especially SMEs, need credit. What did I propose years ago? I have proposed the creation of a national savings bank. That was never supported by Mr Öztürk, nor by Mr Vos. People can keep their money safe. The banks have spoiled it with the people, with the consumer. The banks have also spoiled it with entrepreneurs, with their perverse incentives and bonus culture. I have spent more than two years on the De Wit Committee and have been investigating the banking crisis. So I have a right to speak. I ask you to look at the possibilities, but now the Minister answers that another route is his preferred. He uses all kinds of abbreviations that nobody says anything about. Do I understand from this that the Minister is willing to investigate an entrepreneurial bank, a consumer bank? In reply to my question, the Minister does not depart from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u77	I hear the terms entrepreneurial bank, consumer bank and national savings bank. We have banks in the Netherlands. We even have banks that are bigger than the Dutch economy in itself justifies. So we have quite a few banking facilities available. If a consumer wants to keep his or her money somewhere, there are good opportunities for that in Dutch banks. These are also reliable possibilities because there is a State guarantee for deposits up to a certain level. I therefore believe that this need is met by consumers. I also believe that business needs can best be addressed and addressed by the business community itself. That includes the banks, but there are also other possibilities. We are building these at the moment: credit unions, crowdfunding, SME bonds. Those possibilities are being widened in the Netherlands. I do not believe that setting up a new bank or a national savings bank has added value for the Dutch consumer or the Dutch business community.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u78	The national savings bank I am talking about is taking money from consumers who want to save. On the other hand, loans are given to SMEs. That is why I say: the entrepreneurial and consumer bank, the national savings bank, is just one. The minister's talking about the banks. The banks are saved with public money. That cost Jan a lot of money with the hat. People have fallen into poverty. Their house is under water or they have had to sell their house with much loss, which they will never get straightened out in their short lives. However, banks continue to invest badly abroad. That is why I ask: do it for the Dutch people. Explore the possibilities of such a national savings bank that also lends to SMEs. If there's anything left, maybe the government debt can be repaid, who knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u79	The basic idea of the bank is that people save money at a bank and that loans are then given from it. There are four large banks and other banks in the Netherlands that are fully equipped. They are supervised by the Dutch Bank. We know what happened and what needed to change. We have taken steps to this end. I believe that the creation of a national savings bank has no added value for the Dutch citizens or the Dutch business community. I am therefore not prepared to do any research on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u80	Very briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u81	We'll do it in two and you've asked two very long questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u82	Now I'm gonna take my second interruption. The point is that banks no longer lend to small SMEs. I'm being approached by lawyers who say I've had a law firm for 20 years and I don't get a mortgage to buy a house anymore. The banks don't give credit anymore, but they did kill half the country. That's where the pain is. People don't trust it anymore. The companies don't get loans. The minister has a point if what he says is true, but it's just not true what the minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u83	It seems that Mr Graus is running himself down when that is not necessary. He says the banks don't give credit anymore. The reality is that banks are giving plenty of credit and that SMEs are also getting credit. The problem lies with small SMEs, where 56% of the credit applications are currently fully or partially accepted. Moreover, there is an upward trend; I have just explained this. I therefore believe that there is absolutely no point in saying in the Chamber that the banks no longer give credit. Even at the biggest bottleneck, the smallest SME, 56% of all applications are accepted in full or in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u84	Banks only give credit to big companies and rich people. This minister is also defending these banks. I find that shameless. Companies are falling apart and SMEs are no longer able to fill jobs or go bankrupt, but this minister is still defending the big banks. Come on! Stand up for the small SMEs. I also regret that the VVD, the large party that claims to be an entrepreneurial party, sits very still here while the VVD Minister does not stand up for small SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u85	An interruption is intended for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr Öztürk says that banks only give credit to large companies and rich people. That's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u87	The minister thinks he's gonna corner me, but a lot of people watch TV and see the minister. They have applied for credit but have not received it. Does the Minister know how many people he hurts? Does he know how many entrepreneurs he's hurting? Does he know how many people he's destroying the dream of now? Does he think he's gonna get his way with me? The Minister's taking on all these little entrepreneurs. Try giving that a serious answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u88	I think Mr Öztürk only listens to himself and does not listen to my answers. I have indicated that I consider the problem of financing to be a serious problem. The cabinet has planned a series of measures three years in a row. In the period 2009-2015 we have made a total of 10 billion in funding possible through all kinds of facilities provided by the Empire. Over the next three years, we will be able to provide an additional 9 billion. The ECB is currently saying that 17% of the cases do not finance Dutch SMEs as a whole, i.e. 83% of the cases do. I have also indicated that an application for credit from more than half of the smallest companies, where there is the biggest problem, is fully or partially honoured. I'm not satisfied with the situation I've just described. It is quite different from what Mr Öztürk describes. Hence my qualification "complete nonsense." That is why I intend to continue my efforts to increase funding opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises and for other companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u89	I'll try not to take such a high tone against the Minister. A few years ago, I wrote an own-initiative paper: a New National Investment Bank. Moreover, this instrument is also at the service of colleagues if they really think that something needs to change. They could use that instrument, too. The cabinet was not charmed by that idea at the time. Only, during the General Political Reviews the idea of an innovation bank came up. That's what I asked for in my first term. Can the Minister for Economic Affairs give us a little more insight into the way in which this might now be considered in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u90	We do not have a national investment bank in the Netherlands. Other European countries do, but the economic situation in the Netherlands is not bad. I have already said that we have half a percent more growth this year than the euro area. Next year, that's half a percent more. We have a certain situation that has grown in the Netherlands, which is typically Dutch and is not wrong, even if you compare it with other countries. However, there is something going on at this point. First of all, the NLII (Dutch Investment Institution) was founded by institutional investors, pension funds and insurers. It's a fact now. Then we have the Dutch Investment Agency (NIA), which was set up on the initiative of the Cabinet to ensure that we make the most of EFSI opportunities. These are the opportunities that are being created at European level to stimulate investment. This has a limited setup, but according to the one we have appointed to develop that NIA, Mr Kremers, we should actually further develop that and include the EZ instruments for (financing) innovation. The cabinet is thinking about it. We are also looking at possible coherence with the NLII, which has already been established. And we are looking at how this can best be put into a form that is in line with what is happening in Europe and can make a good contribution to meeting future needs in the Netherlands. I'm not ruling out possibilities right now. We're investigating things and connecting things. If Mrs Gesthuizen says that we are in the same direction as she indicated earlier, then I do not contradict her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u91	That sounds like music to me. Fantastic! I also hope that colleagues will listen carefully. This could perhaps be the instrument, not only for SMEs seeking funding for innovative products or services, but also for larger companies knocking on banks in vain at the moment, either because the payback period is too long or because it is too risky because something is innovative. They will be able to make good use of this if this thinking continues in the various ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u92	I do not want the expectations to be too high, because I do not see the current situation in the Netherlands as a bad situation, but there are a few developments going on that will be followed up as I have just outlined. If Mrs Gesthuizen is positive about that, I am pleased. I say this in response to what Mr Vos has said on this point. Then I'll come to the funding. Mr. Vos also mentioned the unicorns. By unicorns, he and I, I think, mean start-ups that grow at once within a certain period of time and become a big company. I have already mentioned one: Dezima Pharma, a company that has grown from 0 to maybe 1.4 billion in three years. ADN is another company in the Netherlands. That company is called Silicon Valley's wallet, worth over a billion dollars. You have facilities for start-ups in the Netherlands, but you also have to ensure that those companies that can then successfully grow do not necessarily go to the US or end up in American hands. You need to create opportunities for this in the Netherlands. That is exactly the subject in the picture when using EFSI money. The NLII is trying to increase pension funds from insurers and pension funds for the Dutch economy. We must also try to meet the need of this group of unicorns, as Mr Vos calls it. What is available in the Netherlands for this, we need to put in the right shape. The Dutch Investment Agency, which I mentioned earlier, and its possible further development, will also have to be focused on this point. I fully agree with Mr Vos. I have been asked whether EZ's subsidy schemes should not be substantially streamlined. EZ is a large ministry, covering several issues: agriculture, nature management, innovation, energy, overall responsibility for the economy and financing. In our complex society, many things require the attention of the government. You can't put all these things into one or two arrangements. Specific arrangements are needed for this. Mrs Schouten has drawn attention several times to the typical problem of Dutch shipbuilding, particularly its innovation. There's an arrangement for that. Let me give you an example, but I can mention dozens more. We have many arrangements, because we live in a complex and ambitious society. We are always focused on exploiting opportunities for improvement. This is often translated into a subsidy scheme, which is not necessarily wrong. But streamlining and simplification naturally sounds to me, just like the spokesmen, like music in the ears. In 2010, there has already been a first change in the direction of business subsidies. At that time, the subsidy flow was mainly converted into a tax facility, the Wbso, which we discussed earlier. There's been a lot of streamlining back then. In 2014, a scheme of national EZ grants was established at EZ, bringing together a number of schemes. In this context, 90 different instruments have been deleted, as other instruments could be widened, which could simplify the situation. With effect from 1 July 2015, we have bundled and harmonised all the grant instruments at EZ that emerged from European Structural and Investment Funds and converted them into a single European EZ grant scheme. We have a Scheme of national EZ grants and a Scheme of European EZ grants. Furthermore, we have combined a lot in the Wbso, which is also simplified. We've come a long way with that. At the moment there are about 70 different schemes that are implemented by the Dutch Entrepreneurship Agency. But these are not just EZ regulations, they are also a few dozen regulations from other ministries, which are carried out by the National Entrepreneurship Agency of the Netherlands. There are also a dozen regulations that directly implement European regulations. So there's nothing I can do with that. And there are a dozen schemes under Horizon 2020, a major European investment and innovation programme, which we want to make the best possible use of. At the moment there are actually 30 schemes at EZ in the areas of nature, agro, energy, innovation and financing. That's not much. In my view, therefore, the great problem which the Chamber assumes is not present. I remain keen to streamline and simplify where possible, but fortunately a great deal has already happened on that point. Mrs Vos spoke about encouraging entrepreneurship and start-ups. Instead of giving self-employed people a deduction, you should encouragezzp'ers with money to hire staff. Manyzzp'ers grow into start-ups with staff. We already have a lot of facilities for that. There's gonna be more of them. The five billion package for the 2016 budget also includes the low income advantage. This means that employers with employees receive up to 110% of the statutory minimum wage €2,000 benefit. That also makes it more attractive forzzp's to hire people. For entrepreneurs who want to hire people, improvements have already been made. I think that's necessary, too. We are also talking to the Chamber about the payment of wages in the second year in case of illness. In particular, my colleague for Social Affairs and Employment will undoubtedly discuss this with the Chamber. I believe that the self-employed deduction gives start-ups,zzp'ers, a little support to get through the difficult start-up phase. I think a lot of zzp'ers want to stay zzp'er. They know they're at risk and they don't get certain things. On the other hand, they will receive more favourable tax treatment. Thezzp'ers choose that. This creates flexibility in society. Manyzzp'ers enjoy being their own boss and making their own decisions. So I think it would be wise to be careful with thosezzp'ers, which is also in line with the cabinet response to the ibo aboutzzp'ers. Spokesmen have spoken about limiting the rule pressure. The Chamber knows that I am not one of those who find rules a dirty word. I like rules. It's good to streamline a complicated society. Rules also provide certainty, which is often very in the interests of entrepreneurs. However, with our good intentions, we have also seen many rules that may be less valuable at the moment, but which still remain in place, while new rules will be introduced. So I think it is very good to put pressure on the whole set of rules in the Netherlands. I have already outlined a way in which I want to deal with this: modernisation of rules. As far as the pure reduction of rules is concerned, the previous cabinet has reduced them by 1 billion, this cabinet is going to reduce them by 2.5 billion. Last time, the Chamber said that the introduction costs and the effects of European rules should also be reflected. I promised the Chamber we'd do the same. However, I would point out that making European rules is not a negative thing. Now it is true that you have rules in 28 countries of Europe. For an entrepreneur in the Netherlands it is very difficult to do business in Europe. If those 28 national rules expire and one European rule comes back, then that is very positive for an entrepreneur. It is good to point out to the House that the situation regarding regulatory pressure in the Netherlands is not so bad compared to other countries. Take the environmental rules. The suggestion is often raised that there are a lot of them in the Netherlands. Research carried out by the European Commission has shown that there is a great deal of environmental ambition in the Netherlands. There are many things in the environmental field that we want to make better, to control. We are working on many things that we also achieve results with. Of all 28 countries in the EU, we are the second country with the most environmental ambitions and we are also successful in getting things done in the environmental field. Only Denmark is above us. At the same time, we in the EU are the third country with the least environmental rules. We have a high level of ambition and we realize a lot, but we have compared little environmental rules with other countries. Denmark has a little more ambition than we do, but it also has a lot more rules from us. If you take a good look at the environmental rules in an international context, then I think that the regulatory pressure is not bad at all. In an overview of the European Commission, in which it sets out in various parts the situation in the Netherlands with regard to the subject matter of regulation, we are looking forward to it. It is good that this is the case in the Netherlands, but we are not satisfied with it yet. We always see opportunities to do better, and so we continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u93	I had asked a very specific question as to what the Minister would think if a legislative proposal were to come to the Chamber without a regulatory paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u94	I do not agree with that, but it must be clear that it has nothing to do with rules at all. However, we have agreed with the Court that attention should be paid to the issue of regulatory pressure every time. If that doesn't happen, it's not good. It's my job to prevent that. I have also submitted this to my colleagues and set up an organisation to do this better. It happens in a number of cases and in some cases it doesn't, but I think it should go well in all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u95	That's a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr Bosman and Mr Verhoeven have stated that a few things are not going well with the Market and Government Act. In particular, they have pointed out that municipalities are playing small businesses. As an example they mentioned municipalities that maintain private gardens from the municipal plant gardens, municipal marinas that rent berths, municipalities that operate restaurants in sports canteens and sports halls. So they are not satisfied with it as it is now under the Market and Government Act. We must realise that this law has been established with the active involvement of the House of Representatives. It has deliberately introduced, through an amendment, the provision that municipalities may not do such things, but that they may do so in the public interest. Well, that provision is being used passionately. And that is the problem that those who did not come up with that amendment, Mr Bosman of the VVD and Mr Verhoeven of D66, are now putting forward as a bottleneck. I think this is a real bottleneck. There's that law, but she's finite. It shall end on 1 July 2017. Before we do that, we will come up with an evaluation. I've already indicated the bottleneck. I also understood the initiative paper of VVD and D66. I am going to include the own-initiative paper and the knowledge that we ourselves have about what is going on here. I will ensure that the outcome of the evaluation is such that we can decide whether the Market and Security Act will continue and, if so, in what form. Mrs Schouten and Mr Vos spoke about social enterprises. I'm a little double-crossed in the whole concept of social enterprise. If the last grocer in a village tries to maintain his business as a hardworking entrepreneur, he does so to earn his money there, but also to maintain an important provision for that village. Then he may not be a social entrepreneur, but an ordinary entrepreneur who works as a franchiser of the Spar or any other chain. I think he's very social and very valuable. If you have a bicycle shop with one or two staff in a neighbourhood in Amsterdam, you have a position in that area. You may not be a social entrepreneur, but you're just a bicycle shopkeeper, but I don't see the difference with what is called a social enterprise. I do notice that those who have a social enterprise for their own good and who organise themselves together with others as such, do so with the best of intentions. The way they approach their activity can also have added value for society. So I'm a little double into this. I therefore welcome the fact that this is being looked at. The SER has already been working on this. The ESC has said: do not develop a specific policy for this; there is no need for a separate legal form, but it is useful to monitor this development and to look at what will or may need to be done in the coming years. I have no direct intentions for that. I think you should treat these companies like other companies, but I also see the good intentions and the potential added value. I therefore want to continue to take a positive approach to this development of social entrepreneurship from Economic Affairs. I know that my colleague from Social Affairs shares that interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u97	I understand, however, that the Minister finds it difficult to make a distinction on the issue of social enterprise. That's why I'm asking him the next question. An existing entrepreneur in Amsterdam only has electric taxis, because he does not want fine dust in the Netherlands, from which children get asthma, and because he wants less CO emissions. In these taxis, he also lets older workers drive who, on the basis of all kinds of things, find it difficult to get to work. This entrepreneur adds something quite different to society than a company that wants to pump the last piece of fossil fuels with an orbital platform from below the Arctic. That difference is made in other countries. In England, for example, there is the Social Value Act and in Europe there is a toolbox, but in the Netherlands there is still insufficient. It is good that the ESC has recognised this, but I think that this needs to be looked at more closely. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u98	I see that point made by Mr Vos, but he puts it sharply on one side. I just put it on the other side, with that bike shopkeeper in a neighborhood and the last grocery store in a village. These are defined by others, perhaps not social entrepreneurs, but I think they are just as social. I believe that any entrepreneur who runs his business in a neat way, which is true of most entrepreneurs, and who provides employment and prosperity, makes an important social contribution. However, I do understand Mr Vos's point of view. There will need to be a cabinet response to the ESC's opinion. We, my colleague from Social Affairs and I intend to give that response this year. The lead is with my colleague from Social Affairs. Of course, the opinion of the PvdA Group, as expressed by Mr Vos, is also important for the preparation he is preparing. We'll see how that's reflected in the cabinet response. We shall then discuss this with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u99	I agree with the Minister that we should not play entrepreneurs against each other in the sense that one entrepreneur would be social and the other not. However, social enterprises have specific characteristics: they are not primarily aimed at profit or profit maximization, of course, but at conservation, and they have a social purpose. At the same time, however, they are just entrepreneurs. I am therefore surprised that Social Affairs has the lead in responding to the ESC, because this is about entrepreneurs who want to make social contributions in their work. A very specific point in the ESC opinion concerns the financing of social entrepreneurs. Precisely because they are not primarily aimed at profit or profit maximization, a difficult situation arises when they need funding. That is certainly in this minister's area. Is he willing to consider how we can make arrangements that we have introduced ourselves, such as SEED Capital and Innovation Credit, more accessible to these entrepreneurs or to which we contribute?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u100	I am reluctant to do so, because I believe that the facilities should be available to everyone in equal conditions. I understand the example given by Mr Vos: you work with electrical means of transport in a city and you hire older people to serve them. Then you tend to do something extra for a company like this. However, I have the same tendency to do some extras for a grocery store that stays up in a village and is very important for the climate of life in such a village, or for a shopkeeper who performs a nice, positive function in a neighborhood. I therefore believe that the facilities we have should be available to everyone, including for social entrepreneurs. They are not profit-making, Mrs Schouten says, but that is very difficult to include in a regulation. If I have a company and find that the facilities are better if I don't make a profit, I can make my company a foundation and put myself on the payroll for one and a half tons. Then I may be formally a social entrepreneur, but in reality it does not have any added value. So I am very reluctant on this point. Perhaps it is a good thing that the Social Affairs and Employment colleague has the lead in making a cabinet response in the area of social entrepreneurship. I do see the potential added value of social entrepreneurs, but I am very afraid to distinguish between social and non-social entrepreneurs. In my view, any entrepreneur who works socially responsibly, as any entrepreneur should, is also a social entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u101	The point is that a social entrepreneur, who also wants to be an entrepreneur, does not get anything extra but is already lagging behind. This is also the conclusion of the ESC report on funding. It says that it is precisely social entrepreneurs who are currently finding it very difficult to obtain funding, also because the form of business is still unknown. Also, financiers are wondering about profitability. At the same time, we all recognise that social entrepreneurs can make an important contribution to objectives, including those of this cabinet. So I'm not asking for anything extra. On the contrary, I would ask the Minister to make the arrangements currently in place more accessible to these entrepreneurs, so that they can reach a level playing field with all the other entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u102	I think Mrs Schouten has a real point. She says: if you're a social entrepreneur and you're not focused on profit, and there's not much to know about your way of doing business, then it's even more difficult to get funding. I think that this is a valid point that we should also include in the cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u103	But is the Minister already prepared to consider whether the arrangements that are now in place might need to be reviewed to see whether existing bottlenecks can be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u104	I am prepared to do what is necessary in the preparation of the cabinet response together with my colleague for Social Affairs and Employment in order to provide a proper response in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u106	I look like a politician, Mrs. Schouten, don't you think? I'm going to the international business section. The Netherlands has a good reputation as a place of business for foreign companies. If you look at the investments made from countries in the world in other countries, we are the world's number 11 in terms of receiving foreign investment. I believe that we are 17 or 18 in terms of economy, but we are the number 11 in terms of receiving money from companies that want to settle in the Netherlands or have their head office in the Netherlands. In total, there is currently 664 billion dollars invested in the Netherlands by foreign companies from international comparisons. I have already said that there are many jobs. I correct what I said about this; at the moment there are almost 1 million jobs in these foreign companies. They account for 15% of all jobs in the Netherlands. We have a very well-functioning public service, NFIA (Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency), part of the National Entrepreneurship Agency Netherlands. The NFIA knows how to sell the Netherlands abroad, often together with very active provinces and municipalities, which also play a very good role. The Chamber knows that this has been successful in recent years. In 2013, there was 1.7 billion in investment, in 2014 it was 3.2 billion, also because of the investments in windmills that are made from abroad in the Netherlands. . I also point out what Google in Groningen and Microsoft do in North Holland. Think also of ICL, a large chemical company from Israel, which places its European headquarters in Amsterdam. There are many examples. In the past year 187 projects from foreign investors have been brought to the Netherlands. The Netherlands is not only interesting for foreign investors, but also for tourists from abroad. There is a strong growth in the number of people who come to the Netherlands as a tourist or as a businessman or woman. In 2014 we achieved a record of 14 million visitors. That's 10% more than the year before. They spent more than 10 billion euros together and thus contributed significantly to our total hospitality economy, which has a turnover of 68 billion euros in the Netherlands, with as many as 600,000 jobs linked. Together with NBTC Holland Marketing, for which we make 8.5 million per year available from the EZ budget, we are working to ensure that these tourists, especially those from other countries, are spread across the Netherlands. In Amsterdam is already a huge influx of tourists, but in the eyes of people from India and China, the Netherlands is actually one destination. We can make great combinations in the Netherlands on the basis of certain themes, making it attractive for tourists to know what the Netherlands has to offer outside Amsterdam. I always find it very inspiring to see how some entrepreneurs manage to do that. There's a woman with a hotel in Giethoorn. She has gone to China on her own five times to build a market there. In the meantime, almost 70% of its customers come from China. She works with other women in Giethoorn, giving Giethoorn an attraction to tourists from other countries. So much so that tourists are already going to Zwolle from there. So they don't go from Zwolle to Giethoorn, they go the other way around. What can be done in Giethoorn can also be done in other places. I think that the Netherlands has a lot of opportunities to continue the growth of the number of tourists. That's what we'd like to do. NBTC has developed a plan to create the Netherlands as a metropolis in the world. Arnhem, Brabant and Drenthe will be linked to Amsterdam. I intend to make an extra €400,000 available once. I have also spoken to the provinces about this. I'm guessing they'd like to contribute to that, too. In this way, I believe that we can accelerate the positive development that is already taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u107	I agree with the Minister that it is important for foreign companies to establish themselves in the Netherlands, because that creates jobs. Only a report by Ernst & Young shows that foreign investment in the countries around us has increased by 10%, while foreign investment in the Netherlands has decreased. Does the Minister recognize that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u108	No. I think we are a very attractive country for companies in the world to invest in. I think there's still growth in it. So I'm not negative about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u109	Apparently it doesn't grow in the Netherlands and abroad it does. What is the Minister going to do to attract foreign investors? For example, he brought Google to the Netherlands, for which he paid tribute. That's great, because that creates a lot of jobs. My question, however, is what else is he going to get to the Netherlands and how he will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u110	I don't recognize the image that less money goes to the Netherlands. In 2013 1.7 billion has been invested from abroad in the Netherlands. In 2014, 3.2 billion was invested. In the year 2013, it created 8,500 jobs. In the year 2014 6,300 jobs. Those were fewer because a large amount of money was invested in a large windmill project. Over the years, therefore, the Netherlands has always been and has remained attractive, increasingly for foreign companies. That is why we currently have USD 664 billion in total investment in the Netherlands. Hence, a disproportionate proportion of the European headquarters of companies from Korea, Japan or China are located in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u111	I would like to mention tourism, an important employer. It is important for the Netherlands and offers good public relations abroad. The Dutch Tourism & Congress is working on a project. I am pleased that the Minister has given a one-off commitment to this. However, the VVD is looking for more space for this project, for example if money is available in the Autumn note. This project has a start and end date and is mainly aimed at improving knowledge and skills towards Asia, for example, to attract even more tourists this way, not only to Giethoorn, but also to Middelburg, Groningen or Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u112	It is true that in recent years, not least encouraged by the VVD, we have had major austerity operations and we have reduced the government. You can see that all over the line, as with the TO2 institutions that I might be talking about later and also with the Dutch Tourism and Congresses Bureau. There is an amount of 8.5 million a year left. I can see that they are working in such a way that the good trend for tourism and congresses is still in place. If specific plans are to be promoted once by the provinces and the Empire, I would like to work for them. I mentioned the example of the project with €400,000 from the Empire and a contribution from the provinces. That's what I've been talking about. Now that we've just made the cuts and the case is stable, I don't think it follows the consistent line of recent years that was used, among other things, under pressure from the VVD when we look again at an increase in subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u113	That consistent line is clear and very recognizable, but we also see that the economy is going to attract again and the space for people to spend money, including abroad, may increase. It would be nice if we could still draw those people to the Netherlands to make the tourism sector in the Netherlands, which is good, even better. So I am not asking for an increase in the subsidy, but for serious consideration to be given to the possibilities of a project with a start and an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u114	I understand Mr Bosman's message. Mr Graus referred again to the problems that would arise in the border regions with purchasing power flowing to Belgium and Germany and a reduction in excise duty that would be necessary. He has already mentioned this before, and I have already outlined to him what is actually going on at those borders. I think this is a different picture than Mr Graus thinks. We see how the Germans and their purchasing power in the Netherlands are doing, as are the Dutch and their purchasing power in Germany. On an annual basis, 75 million euro of Dutch purchasing power flows to Germany. 128 million euros of German purchasing power will return to the Netherlands on an annual basis. It is therefore not the case that the Dutch purchasing power flows away towards Germany. No, on balance, purchasing power comes from Germany to the Netherlands. Especially in Brabant, a lot of purchasing power from Belgium goes to the Netherlands. Our estimate is that it is about 190 million euros in purchasing power from Belgium to the Netherlands. The Belgians go here because the prices are lower. Last time I indicated to the Chamber how much lower prices are in the Netherlands. They also meet a better offer and conviviality in Brabant. For the Belgian-Dutch border, therefore, I also think that purchasing power flows to the Netherlands. It is necessary to keep an eye on developments. In this respect, excise duties must certainly be in the picture, but the overall picture is different from what Mr Graus has already described on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u115	I'm a border boy. I was born and raised there, in Heerlen, near Aachen and Liège. All I see there is pump holders going to hell. People, also family members and friends of mine, not only go to refuel abroad but also buy a bag of potatoes and cans of beer. That's how it goes. The figures do not interest me, Madam President, because I see that what is being said here is not correct. It is true that the Minister says that Germans are coming to us as well. That makes sense, because in Limburg there is a very nice, welcoming people. So that's true, but we can bring a lot more Germans to us. We can also prevent more Limburgers and people from other border areas from getting gas from Limburg because I live there abroad and get their potatoes, bread and bottles of beer. It can't be. The beer breweries are getting in trouble. The Minister knows on how many inhabitants Limburg has a beer brewery. We live for a part of that. That's our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u116	Now ask your question, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u117	Yes, I did, Madam President. I just want this monitored every year and leveled. This inequality must not continue. The numbers don't add up, because how is it that all these pump holders go to hell? The Germans say: willkommen, Holländer. And hoppekee, they're all going there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u118	Welcome, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u119	There are more boys from the border region in the Netherlands. I'm one of them. Mr Graus, who also sees himself as a boy from the border region, is then a boy from the border region who is not interested in figures at all. If they're already there, he doesn't believe them, but at least he doesn't care about them. I'm someone who's interested in that. I think it's interesting. You can say that this happens and that happens, but you can also try to picture what it's really like now. Then you investigate that and you see that 75 million go from the Netherlands to Germany and 128 million come back from Germany to the Netherlands. Then you can say you don't give a shit and you don't believe it. Mr Graus can say that, but I say something else. Maybe that's why I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u120	That's exactly what I'm interested in right now. I also said just now that we can make the 128 million Germans even 150 million if it becomes more attractive here, if our country becomes more attractive to the Germans. Moreover, it must be made more unattractive for the Dutch to cross the border. That's the story. So we can level that difference. That's what it's about, so by definition, there's more coming into our country. Then I say that figures have nothing to do with that, not even the 128 million, because then make it 150 million and make sure that there is no emptying out of residents from the border area who are forced to buy across the border. That just saves tens a day for those people, and they don't have that much to spend anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u121	I do not want to take Mr Graus out of his words, but if I were to level the difference, this means that more purchasing power from the Netherlands must flow to Germany and less from Germany to the Netherlands. Mr Graus says: now have ambition to be even more interesting for the Germans. I think this is a good challenge for our entrepreneurs. They are already successful, because there is already more coming from Germany to the Netherlands than the other way around. However, it is a good challenge for them to try their offerings, their quality, their service, their price so as to organize even more purchasing power coming from Germany and Belgium to the Netherlands. I believe that this challenge is important, just as Mr Graus believes it is important. Mr. Chairman. I come to the 'international' section on the European Union and the Dutch Presidency. It might be good to say something to Mrs. Klever. She said that we might be number five in the world when it comes to competitive economies, but that Switzerland is at the top and doing much better. According to Mrs Klever, we must do it just like Switzerland, which means that we must step out of the euro and also leave the European Union. Let's see what's going on over there. Firstly, Switzerland considers it important to participate in the European internal market. This means that the legislation introduced in Europe for the internal market will also be introduced in Switzerland. Switzerland is introducing all this legislation itself, but it should not talk about it. So we in the European Union make up our minds about what this legislation is going to be, and then Switzerland has to introduce it. The country must also contribute to the European Union's budget, while it has nothing to say about the adoption of that budget. Switzerland has a separate currency, which at some point became very expensive. Let me give you an example from a whole series of examples, because anyone who has been in Switzerland can compare it with other countries. A kilo of bananas cost €3.20 in Switzerland. If you crossed the border to Germany, it cost half, €1.60. There was a strange situation emerging in the country. The prices kept getting higher and higher. People with low incomes are getting more and more in trouble. At some point, the Swiss national bank, the SNB, linked the price of the franc to that of the euro. This has been maintained for some time, but it turned out to have large monetary effects which were very unfavourable to the country. So that's what's stopped. The link to the euro has been released. As a result, there was a revaluation of the franc. The franc became more valuable. So the problem they already had reappeared. The effect of this was that the Swiss national bank had to take a loss of EUR 50 billion. The deflation is currently 1.2%, while for a healthy economy you are slightly below the plus 2%. Their economic growth at the moment is less than 1%. It is therefore not the case that everything Switzerland does must be followed immediately by the Netherlands. There's one more thing. The euro has a certain value because of what is happening in the south of Europe and in the north of Europe. There is a kind of average that does not go wrong for the Netherlands as a trading country and as a member of the European Union, because that euro is quite competitive in the world. On this basis, our companies can export even better than they could otherwise. If we step out of the euro, it is very imaginable and predictable that the value of that new currency that we should then be introducing is higher than that of the euro. And that means a negative impact on our business, on our jobs and on our prosperity. I do not want to speculate at all about the consequences of leaving the European Union as one of the six founding fathers. Supposed prospects for the Netherlands by following Switzerland are not as simple as Mrs Klever seems to assume. Mr Bosman spoke about the very high roaming charges for Dutch people in other countries of the European Union, and was pleased that they would be abolished in a few years' time. He asked me if we could do this faster in the Benelux. I am very interested in doing things together with Belgium and Luxembourg. The city of Luxembourg is developing. In Flanders there are major developments around Leuven. I call it Antwerp. There are very good opportunities to do things together with Belgium and Luxembourg. That is very much in our common interest. I was in favour of looking at whether it could be done, but it cannot be done, because we would have to amend our own legislation before 15 June 2017, when the new European regulation comes into force. We must therefore first reach agreement on this with Belgium and Luxembourg. Then we must make a law for it, which must go through the ordinary procedure. It is not real to have all this done before 15 June 2017. In practice, therefore, this is not a possibility. Mr Bosman has already pointed out that it does happen between Belgium and Luxembourg, but that is because there is one operator working in both countries. He can do that on his own. However, we are now talking about different operators in different countries, all of whom should be put into something ahead of Europe. In short, I think it is a nice idea, but in view of European developments and deadlines, I do not see any possibility of obtaining profits in the form of an acceleration. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the future-proof supply of energy and then I will deal with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u122	I shall first give Mrs Gesthuizen the floor for a question. I'll tell you that after this block I'll suspend for lunch and then we'll continue with the block of future-proof energy supply. Otherwise, I will have to interrupt the block halfway through, and I do not think that would be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u123	ICT is also global and international, but I would like to go back to what the Minister said about ICT. I would ask him to respond to the following quote from the report of the AWTI, the Advisory Council on Science, Technology and Innovation, "Ready for the Future?'. The Advisory Council states: "There is no comprehensive vision of ICT policy for research, innovation, production and allocation. There is no coherent approach to ICT knowledge, development, infrastructure, capacities, skills and use issues." This report was intended for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of OCW and I can imagine that the Minister was somewhat shocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u124	The practice is that in the Netherlands, of all countries in the world, ICT opportunities are almost the most widely used. Our infrastructure is also one of the best in the world. We also have the largest internet hub in the world; most of the communication between America and Europe runs through the Netherlands. The company that makes the crucial machines for the production of chips is in the Netherlands. The whole world depends on chips and the machines are produced in the Netherlands. Our business has gained fifth place on the world list for competitiveness through ICT applications. I'm sure things can be better. I think there are very good recommendations in that report. I also see what other countries are doing better. I have already mentioned some of those countries and I am also motivated to do better. The fact that we have not yet drawn up a comprehensive vision does not mean that we have not achieved a great deal in practice. We could indeed look at how we can further improve the current non-bad situation by responding to these recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u125	The report doesn't alter what the minister says. Of course you can have a great status quo and score very well on all kinds of telling lists. I do not want to do anything about this, but the Advisory Council has, of course, taken a good look at how future-proof it is. In the view of the Council and in my view, a comprehensive vision is needed for future stability. I am pleased that the Minister is saying that he will come forward with a response, but I would like to give him some thought to taking the recommendation for this integrated vision of ICT to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u126	Okay. That is Mrs Gesthuizen's view on behalf of the SP Group. I think this view is important, and it is certainly not a dead end if I say that I will involve it explicitly in the preparation of the cabinet's response to that document.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u127	I doubt whether I should ask the question about green education on this block. Since the Minister is going to continue with energy and the amendments, I will do so. In my term I asked a question about the strategic importance of the agricultural sector and green education for the earning capacity of the Netherlands. In this context, I noticed that there is a sharp cut in green education, which is about 30 million on the AOCs this year. But also the funding of Wageningen University goes down considerably per student: the student numbers increase and the funding does not increase accordingly. How does the Minister on the one hand point to austerity and, on the other hand, to the fact that it is a crucial sector for our exports? He started his own argument with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u128	It is certainly a very crucial sector. We spend 170 million euros a year at the University of Wageningen. It is a unique facility for the Netherlands and the world. Fortunately, as a ruler, I don't have to work alone in the Ministry. My colleague, Secretary of State Dijksma, is responsible for this portfolio. Her budget will be dealt with in three weeks. I know that she is working intensively on the relationship between the financing of part of education through the OCW budget and another part through the EZ budget, and the question of how reasonable the possible differences are and what might need to be done about them. I therefore think it would be more useful for Mrs Schouten to discuss this issue with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u129	We were definitely planning to do that, too. A colleague of mine will do the same in the agriculture budget. I understand from the Minister's answer that space is now being sought to solve the financing problem in green education, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u130	I did not intend to come forward with new information in response to what Mrs Schouten said. My colleague has already exchanged information with the Chamber on this and she will continue to do so in her budget debate. It is not my intention to bring something new to her territory here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u131	Thank you. We'll do it in two; I've just been generous.
