ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Fourteen speakers have come forward. Speaking time of six minutes per group has been agreed. The Rules of Procedure state that the sitting can only take place after 11 p.m., subject to the agreement of the Chamber. We can try to be ready by 11:00. I propose that we try to do the same, so I ask Members to be very cautious about interrupting. Mr Sjoerdsma, who has requested this debate, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. After every summit on the refugee crisis, the gap between the promises made by the Heads of Government and the situation on the ground seems to widen. The images of large numbers of refugees on foot along the highway, in overcrowded trains or through fields to and through Europe are not declining. However, the promised aid and contributions from the Member States are not increasing. In fact, agreements are just not being kept. In doing so, this refugee crisis is now also a political crisis, a crisis of inaction, of mutual distrust and of failure to deliver, and so much at stake. The lives of people who have to sleep on the streets in the Balkans with the coming winter are at stake. The core of European cooperation, the free movement of persons, Schengen, is also at stake. My group says that Europe can do this, but the European leaders must deliver. We can treat these people decently if we do it at European level, together with a joint reception and with a permanent mechanism for the distribution of refugees between the Member States. However, that requires leadership and that starts with keeping promises. At the countless crisis summits, declaration after declaration was adopted, but paper cannot be eaten. Beautiful promises and solemn declarations are not enough. I'm gonna follow up on those promises. Of the promised 160,000 crisis relocations, which in itself are totally inadequate, 116 000 have taken place at the moment. That's not even a thousandth of what's needed. Of the 2.3 billion committed for reception in the region, Jordan and Lebanon, less than 300 million have been received. Of the 743 border guards agreed for Frontex, only half have been confirmed. The only European hotspot that exists, the registration office on the Greek island of Lesbos, is not functioning. In fact, there is hardly any access to clean water, food and sanitation. However, we cannot just point to other countries. For how many relocations has this cabinet actually carried out so far? It's zero. Zero, Chairman. When can we expect them? How many asylum experts did this cabinet contribute to the hotspots? There's six of them, Mr. Chairman. Six. Can the Prime Minister further confirm that the Netherlands has not yet contributed to the trust fund for Syrian refugees? I call on the Prime Minister to put his fist on the table, to address his colleagues and to call on them to make the overdue contributions, both material and financial, as the occasion. I also call on him tonight to set an example for himself. Only if the Netherlands sets an example, others will follow. This also includes the need to work on this permanent system of distribution. I'll ask the Secretary of State when we're going to see it. Is it a vote? I'd like to hear a response. The images of barbed wire barriers at the internal borders of the European Union are exactly what we do not need. That is not the way Europe should go. Open internal borders and Schengen are a huge asset, to which the Netherlands owes enormous wealth. So what is needed is a genuine common border and coast guard at our external borders. My group is in favour of this today, for a genuine European border and coast guard to rescue and register. The new work programme of the European Commission already mentions it, but I do not hear the cabinet about it. What exactly is the vision of the cabinet? Or does the cabinet think that the present Frontex is satisfactory? Then Turkey. In the refugee crisis, the pragmatist sometimes has to win the idealist, otherwise breakthroughs will continue. However, when it comes to Turkey, I would like to draw a line. I think it is too cynical for words that, in return for a decent reception of refugees, we should turn a blind eye to the violation of human rights by Erdogan. I find it cynical that Timmermans Erdogan was the root of EU membership, something that Erdogan might have helped his majority in the Turkish elections. I ask the Prime Minister who actually instructed Timmermans to negotiate a Turkey deal a few weeks before the Turkish elections. I also ask the Prime Minister why he did not mention the Timmermans initiative, which took place one day after the previous debate. Or didn't he know this himself? Cooperation with Turkey is crucial in this crisis. That's obvious. Let me be clear, however. European funding for care is fine, but not with the strict rules for accession, certainly not with Erdogan. There is therefore only one message: refugee reception and EU membership are two very different things. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to ensure that there will be no relaxation of the strict requirements for Turkey's accession. Last week's elections in Turkey were anything but flawless, as the OSCE election observers stated extensively in their report. What is the reaction of the cabinet to this report? I'm rounding up. The commitment to the forthcoming European meeting is clear. I appeal urgently to our Prime Minister to prevent it from becoming an empty summit again with many words but no action. Let the Netherlands set an example and include the other Member States in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are once again talking to the cabinet about the continuing asylum disaster. Once again, the cabinet has not made any progress in putting things in order. The borders remain wide open, the red carpet is rolled out for all asylum seekers and the Prime Minister keeps waving a very large blank cheque for them. It is in fact unforgivable that the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State should not intervene, that they should allow the Islamic rush on our land to give away our prosperity, identity and security as if it were nothing at all. Unfortunately, our country currently has no borders, and this also applies to the incompetence of this cabinet. You see that incompetence on all fronts. In this way, the Secretary of State sometimes mumbles about improving return policy. Last weekend's Volkskrant read how that goes. Talking techniques should motivate illegals to leave the Netherlands. For them there are also so-called tearooms decorated in the homely atmosphere of the country of origin. You can watch DVDs there, for example. In addition, the illegals receive a bag of money plus support for, for example, starting a business. As an example, someone from Tanzania was quoted who could start a chicken farm. What madness is this, I ask the cabinet. Those who still had doubts about whether or not they should go to the Netherlands now know for sure that they should go. In the exceptional case that their stay application is rejected, they can always fall back on bed-bath bread. Thanks to this cabinet, they can quietly continue to walk around as illegal, because a large line has been struck by the criminalisation of illegality. The only person who returns to the country of origin does so because, at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer, he can have a chicken farm there. Mind you, this is about people who deliberately disobeyed our rules and deliberately ignored the legal obligation to leave. Well, if you really want the sheltersunami to go on, you have to send these kinds of signals out into the world, then you have to pamper even the most reluctant strangers in this way. It is clear that the cabinet can hardly be taken seriously anymore. It doesn't even do anything. It is hiding behind the EU and the agreements that are being made there and the measures that are being devised there. But the solutions are not in tea drinks sessions in Luxembourg, Brussels or Valletta. The Prime Minister should not therefore travel to the summit in the latter place. He wants to do business in the wrong place, with the wrong people and on the wrong subjects. If the Prime Minister really wants a summit if necessary, call a Dubai summit, a summit on the reception of Syrians in their own region. The PVV likes to think about a key to get all Syrians settled in the rock-rich Arab Gulf states, instead of in the Netherlands. Don't ever go along with all the nonsense that the EU is trying to impose on us and only speed up the demise of our country. EU bureaucrats only want to bring more migrants here. They even want to make us dependent on the Turkish tyrant Erdogan. Cooperation with him could limit the influx of asylum seekers into the EU. In return, Turkey would be granted visa liberalisation for all Turks travelling to the EU and the talks on Turkish EU membership would be revived. How do you make it up? In addition to the asylum invasion, we have a Turkish invasion. It's really time to take matters into your own hands. The PVV continues to call on the cabinet to do so. Close the Dutch borders and have them guarded by our defense forces. Don't let any more asylum seekers into our country. I ask the cabinet to finally give that commitment, because everyone with a little common sense knows that this is the only reason. Finally show courage before it is too late and our beautiful country is finally given away to mass immigration and Islamization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. The images of Nieuwsuur and EenVandaag of the Greek island of Lesbos are dramatic. The director of Stichting Vluchteling, who has just returned from Lesbos, told me yesterday that children on the coast need to be resuscitated by volunteers. If they survive that, they could still die in hospitals, where there's a huge shortage of medical personnel. This is happening in Europe in 2015. In the last week, the Greek island has received 50,000 people on a population of 86,000. Almost all the work is done by volunteers. Professionals are being countered. The U.N. can't get their stuff out of the warehouse. There are thousands of tents in stock, but people sleep under the open sky. There is a shortage of everything in Europe. The EU can intervene hard in a financial crisis, but fails miserably in a humanitarian crisis. What can the Netherlands, what can Europe do for these refugees on Lesbos? That is the question I put to the directors present. Why can't the UNHCR go through with it? Why can't he take the lead with local government? Europe sent a troika to Athens almost weekly. Where is Brussels now? I would like a concrete answer to that. If that is not the case, I would like to encourage the cabinet to do so in a motion in the second term. The Secretary of State was in Germany. He spoke wisely there about registration and redistribution at the external borders of Europe. However, after months of meetings and yet another action plan, 116 out of 160 000 refugees have been redistributed to Europe. In the meantime, even Sweden is beginning to ask for an outflow and redistribution of refugees from that country, as the influx continues. Why don't the hotspots and registration points get off the ground? What's taking so long? Four weeks ago, I was on the Macedonian border with Greece. 7,000 people a day cross the border there, without adequate registration and security checks. I saw that happen, too. In the round where I was present, there were also people from countries that we know there is no war, such as Bangladesh or the Balkan countries. Why is there no first check at the external borders, in Greece and Italy? Two weeks ago, I visited Iraq. Here too, I saw the hopelessness of the refugees who are trying to survive by sending their children out for work. In Duhok, tens of thousands of people still live in tents. There are contradictions between population groups and a lack of access to health care. Almost 1 million children have been unable to attend school for over a year. There was also a lack of understanding by the Kurds about the EU's plan to pay EUR 3 billion, while food aid in Europe expires on 1 January. Mr Van Laar of the Labour Party and I asked questions about this last week. This is really mopping with the tap open. If 3.5 million internal refugees are not helped in Iraq, it will lead to a new flow of refugees to Europe. If the EU deal with Turkey continues, the Syrians will be stopped and the Turks will be allowed to travel freely to Europe. That's the reverse world, isn't it? I am also surprised to read that Turkey is being tempted to make agreements by saying that the EU accession process will be met with new energy. There is no mention of the bloody conflict with the Kurds and of the deteriorating human rights situation. Of course, there must be cooperation with Turkey in the area of refugees, but in view of Erdogan's reign of terror, the cabinet must take its distance and not accelerate its efforts towards EU accession. I am considering a motion on this point. For Lebanon and Jordan, 43 million and 28 million respectively have been released, but Iraq is in danger of becoming a forgotten country. The last help the Netherlands gave was in June. This year, 500 million is needed for emergency aid in Iraq. What else can the Netherlands do? Last year it was big in the news: Jezidis and Christians fled. It was broad in the news that Christians are threatening to disappear from the Middle East. The Middle East is actually even the cradle of Christianity. We can't let that happen to each other, can we? What can the Netherlands specifically do for them? The Christian Union supports the government's line of action to target young people's jobs, to tackle smuggling and substantial emergency aid. I would like to say straight away that it is rather harsh that the Dutch emergency aid is falling in the 2016 budget compared to 2015. The Christian Union therefore hopes that the cabinet will continue to implement the Slob motion for more money for reception in the region, which was submitted to the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u5	Madam President. We are looking back this evening at held summits and forward to new European meetings on everything that comes to mind about the current refugee crisis and problem, which is also on the agenda in Europe and in the countries around Europe. On behalf of the SGP Group, I would stress that it is very important not to discuss new plans every time at European level, but also to give credibility to and deliver on previous commitments. For example, amounts committed for aid in the region must be actually transferred. Hotspots, where different deadlines have already expired, must actually be made. Old promises, such as better registration of access to different countries, need to be implemented in practice. We must not divert our attention from the sources of the problem and from tackling the causes: the situation in Syria and Iraq itself, but also the problems that arise in so many countries in Africa. There are proposals to create a new European emergency fund. Is this really a useful complement to all the instruments that are already in place and to development cooperation from countries and in the European context with African countries? Or is it actually more of a political signal? Does it not lead to a new bureaucracy and less attention to successful small-scale organisations and projects? How does the government judge this? The SGP Group continues to stress that in the Netherlands, reception should not increasingly be borne by the projects in the regions of origin themselves. Monitoring the external borders of the Schengen area is also a matter of urgency. We do not need all kinds of new systems, but practical solutions and support for bottlenecks. Is that also the cabinet's commitment? How can we understand the phrase in the European Council's report that the Member States have agreed on the gradual establishment of an integrated system for the management of external borders? Let us not put our energy into creating new rules and models, but rather offer the helping hand to those Member States that are actually in a tight spot. We are, of course, talking a lot about the people who come to Europe, but within the whole of Europe we are also dealing with a lot of people who have already gone through a procedure and have gone through a process. There is less attention to this, but it is still striking that little is being achieved throughout Europe about the actual return of expatriates to the countries of origin. The data we have on these numbers do not vote hopefully. With joint European flights, only hundreds of foreigners were deported in September. Is there sufficient work on practical cooperation in this area too? In the past, evaluations, for example by the Commission Integral Supervision Return, have regularly noted that the Netherlands can make more use of joint flights. Is the Dutch commitment to this maximum? I would then like to comment on cooperation with the countries in the region. Of course, we think it is important that these countries are helped and facilitated. However, our position vis-à-vis Turkey is: absolutely yes to receiving aid, but absolutely no to an open door to Europe, with visas, liberalisation and cheating with the conditions for accession to the European Union. I'd like to hear the cabinet's attitude on this. Human dramas always get a lot of attention here. We must never get used to people's unworthy situations at the borders of Europe and within Europe itself. Humanitarian aid for refugees continues to call for our attention. Tonight I heard Dutch volunteers from Greece reports that quite a lot is happening, but that there is no coordination and clear structure, for example in transport, even within Greece. To what extent will there also be a European contribution to supporting Greece in order to improve the coordination of humanitarian aid? Within the Netherlands, the question remains: what perspective do we create for the people who come here? What is the picture of the people who have to go through the procedures and the things they can count on? Earlier this week I was at an emergency shelter and I noticed that the Syrians there were rather disappointed that it took them so long to get into proceedings; they had a very different picture. Here too, proper imaging from the beginning is very important. Clarification is needed. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the issue of temporaryity. Now we have regulated in our legislation that there is a possibility of a temporary stay for five years; then the stay becomes permanent. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, if he is prepared to look into whether it might be sensible, given the large numbers of asylum seekers we have in Europe today, to enable us to return to the country of origin even in the sixth and seventh years if the situation has actually improved there. I think it is important that we shape this reflection in good time and not wait until we are a few more years away. Is the Secretary of State prepared to put the pros and cons clearly on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u6	Madam President. In 2015, some 760,000 refugees are coming to Europe. All kinds of agreements are made about this. Large numbers would be redistributed. The Netherlands would also take its share. Large amounts would be made available for reception in the region and in the European countries. If we look at these agreements and those numbers, we can only conclude that agreements are being reached quickly in Europe, but that compliance with these agreements is proving difficult. There are shortcomings in the European Union and in the Member States. How can that be if the problem is so urgent and can be seen on our screen every day? The problem is coming to us. How then is it that the manpower requested, the equipment needed and the funds that are said to be available are not there or, if they are, not sufficient? Does the Prime Minister share my view that Europe is inadequate and that the credibility of the European Union is at stake? If the European Union cannot resolve this, it will lose a large part of its right to exist. After all, Europe is not only there to share prosperity, but also to solve cross-border problems. The Netherlands has not yet made any place available for the 160,000 refugees to be redistributed. Meanwhile, the cabinet wants to move from a crisis redistribution mechanism to a permanent redistribution mechanism. We want that, too. Now is the time to ensure that the promised refugees from Greece and Italy can soon be received in the Netherlands. When is the Cabinet going to ensure that the commitments made in this area are fulfilled? I'd like a response. Better reception in the region is the starting point, and that is necessary. There is therefore a need to invest heavily in this regional shelter. People shouldn't waste their time in care, they should be able to work on their future. So we need to focus on education, but also on work for the people who are being taken care of in the region. The children who live there should not become a lost generation. People need not only to be taken care of in the region, but also to be able to build a future. Does the Prime Minister share the view that this should be the case? How is he going to promote prospects for refugees there? The money for improving reception in the region is now coming from the pot for development cooperation. We can and we can do that, but we have to add money if we really want to do development cooperation. This is necessary to address the root causes of migration and flight. Otherwise, it's carrying water to the sea. Does the government agree with the SP that there will be a gap in this area if we take the money out of the OS pool for the reception of refugees and that money must therefore be added to ensure ordinary development cooperation? Cooperation with third countries is also needed. Does the Cabinet realise that many of these countries have a poor record of human rights? The talks with Turkey and the African countries at the Valletta Summit should therefore focus not only on border surveillance and return, but above all on human rights. Last year Spain fired rubber bullets at refugees. Such practices are unacceptable. Does the Prime Minister share that judgment? How does the cabinet intend to prevent third countries from adopting such practices in the future because the groups are large? There is therefore much that can be improved in the area of border surveillance in the context of cooperation with the European Union. Turkey's role in the reception of refugees must remain separate from Turkey's eventual accession to the European Union. I ask the Prime Minister to express this explicitly today. We believe that the link that has been made at European level is unacceptable. I believe that the Prime Minister should also say today that this is unacceptable. The impression has been given that there is a Turkey deal. As far as the SP is concerned, there's no deal. If we read the pieces, this one isn't really there either. I want the Prime Minister's political opinion on everything that has been said about this by Commissioner Timmermans. In order to really tackle migratory flows, the root causes need to be addressed. They are twofold: war and poverty. It is in the interests of the refugees, but also in our interest, that conflicts are prevented or resolved peacefully and that poverty is effectively combated. This requires fair trade, an arms embargo against most countries in the Middle East and North Africa and an active peace policy. How can countries such as Egypt and Saudi Arabia, which cause large numbers of civilian casualties in Yemen, still receive arms from the European Union? Without a change in policy, we will continue to talk in the coming years about improving reception in the region and how we are going to distribute refugees across Europe, but then mopping with the tap will remain open. The Valletta Summit will also focus on political stability in Libya. The Guardian reported yesterday that Bernardino León, the UN Special Envoy in Libya, would have taken money from the United Arab Emirates and would give one of the governments unfair advantage. The independence of the UN and of the UN Special Envoy must be beyond doubt. That is why I ask the cabinet to clarify this. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so? Economic inequality needs to be addressed. At the beginning of this year, a boat collapsed with 950 refugees. There were only a few survivors. A little boy of that came from Bangladesh. In Bangladesh there is no war, but extreme poverty. Only yesterday, a factory in Pakistan collapsed where carrying bags were produced. As long as the European Union and the Netherlands do not engage seriously in fair trade and reduce global inequality, people from poor countries will continue to come to Europe on shabby boats. The SP aims to tackle tax evasion, create jobs and promote corporate social responsibility. Does the cabinet also see, certainly for the long term, that much can be won in this area and that a solution can be found in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. Every day we see the sad images of refugees reporting at the gates of Europe. Fortunately, we in the Netherlands see many who are committed to receiving care. That is necessary, because those who need protection should be given protection in a state of law. At the same time, the tragic reality is that the Netherlands and Europe cannot continue to do so. The fact that it is our moral obligation to receive refugees does not mean that the possibilities are unlimited. We see that it puts pressure on the strength of our society, both in the Netherlands and in Europe. The crisis affecting Europe is more than a temporary refugee crisis. The crisis is about the future of the value community Europe. The safe place in the world that Europe has become in 70 years is under pressure. Europe may be a global player in terms of the economy, but in terms of security, Europe is a game of its environment. Russia is showing us openly in Ukraine and now also in Syria. Europe is being openly blackmailed by Turkey. So we have to turn to the Stevens: either we strengthen Europe's sense of security or we will have 28 more national, weak security strategies. Today, among other things, we are looking back at the European Council on 15 October. Like a rabbit from the top hat there was a deal with Turkey. In return for Turkey's increased commitment, Europe, as the conclusions call it, will face Turkey's accession to the European Union with new energy. In the meantime, since that summit, the number of crossings from Turkey has risen. Turkey has kept Europe on a leash since these agreements. And what was the Prime Minister's position? He agreed. It agreed to a deal that would allow Turkey to accelerate its accession to Europe, an accelerated start to the re-negotiation process. In 2006, after another critical report on the progress of Turkish human rights, it was the same Mark Rutte who said that Turkey would have two more years to improve human rights and to recognise Cyprus. If not, he said at the time, Turkey would be able to reject EU membership. What happened? Now we are talking about a stronger effort to make accession possible. By now, we are not two, but nine years further. Cyprus has not been recognised and human rights have only deteriorated. If that promise still stands, the Prime Minister cannot agree to a new energy approach to the accession process. Over the past few weeks, the Prime Minister has shown himself to be more flexible. For example, he said at a VVD meeting on Europe that Greece should be helped if it fails to implement the jointly agreed measures on the reception of refugees. But, according to the Prime Minister, Greece has already been promised EUR 500 million to improve border control and reception. In return, it had already agreed to put border controls in order. What now, any more help? Greece must also keep its commitments. Where has the money that has so far been transferred to Greece gone at all? If Greece is unable to do so, Europe will have to say at some point that Europe is prepared to resume the control of its borders with Greece. Either Greece participates in the money and it protects its borders, or Greece must be protected from Europe. More about the border checks. The fragmentation of today isn't working. So you must be prepared to think about making border controls at European level. Prime Minister Rutte doesn't want that, he calls it "transfer of sovereignty." In short, the Prime Minister wants to send money to Greece, wants to negotiate with Turkey, but he is blocking one European border guard. In the meantime, everything indicates that the flow of refugees continues to increase, also from Afghanistan and Pakistan. Pakistan has begun to expel Afghan refugees. The Pakistani too know that these Afghan refugees will eventually go to Europe. I ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to insist on the creation of safe zones in Afghanistan as well at European level. Not that whole country is at war with the Taliban. Not every Afghan is a fugitive. There is room in that country for reception, within the borders, with the UNHCR and with the international community. I would ask the Prime Minister to advocate this at the next European summit. And is the Prime Minister prepared to place the amendment of the Refugee Treaty, supported by a majority in this Chamber, on the agenda of the European Council, so that the debate here too will take place? We will have to go to another treaty in the future. Finally. In the coming year too, in 2016, we will have to count on a large number of asylum applications in this country and in Europe. Europe now assumes that there will be an increase from 1 million now to 1.5 million next year. The Netherlands now has 60,000 applications, so one and a half times more: 90,000. However, the cabinet has not yet wanted to change the estimates. That is extremely unwise. It happens in normal years. It seems the cabinet doesn't want that because it knows it's a higher estimate. I ask the Prime Minister now to clarify his expectations for 2016, so that we can then make policies for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u8	I would like to refer to the last comments made by the CDA: a task in the direction of the cabinet, autumn note, more money for reception in the region and, I presume, also for reception in the Netherlands. We have tabled a similar motion to the General Political Reviews. The CDA did not vote for this at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u9	I don't remember exactly what that motion was; I have to tell you that my memory doesn't allow that. It seems strange to me that we did not want to know what the number of applications would be in 2016. I'm fine with you asking this question, but this doesn't help me anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u10	That motion specifically concerned the assumption that next year's estimates were based on too low an inflow rate. The Court of Auditors confirmed that once again. The budgets for next year should therefore be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u11	I have no idea. I think we should know what will be the influx next year. When it comes to the budgets, I have to tell you that I have no idea what was in it anymore. In general, my memory is reasonable and so is my medium-term memory, but this does not help me anymore. We believe that we should at least know in good time what the number of applications is expected to be in 2016. And actually, we should have known this by now. I hope you agree. My point is that if Europe can, so can the Netherlands, and if it could in other years, so can this year. In fact, you can't conduct a policy if you don't know which inflow you have to take into account. So we need to know this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr Buma has a really good point. This year we seem to have been overwhelmed by the numbers and we do not want to be attacked by the numbers again next year. Does Mr Buma also say that the budget needs to be adjusted when we have the figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u13	That may well be possible, but I must say that we will have other questions. We will then have the questions we also had this year, for example about the austerity of shelter because we do not have infinite money. So I am not going to tell the cabinet that it must free up one-on-one per refugee the same amount of extra money. Because I'm afraid we don't. Unless you're willing to cut down on care, education and social security. Next comes the question: what do we do financially? The motion is no longer with me, but if it was about the ABP, we were against it for that reason. We don't think you can pull one-on-one money to fix it. You should at least know what possible numbers you can take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u14	I'm afraid no one can make money. In my opinion, the cabinet is currently based on the estimates or budget of 26,000 people who come. You know, as we know, that this is far too little, I say to you through the President, and if it is indeed double or becomes one and a half times as much, as you say, then that is far too little. The influx is already close to 55,000 or 60,000 this year. If you multiply those numbers by one and a half, are you saying there's no money at all? You're just talking about obsceneness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u15	This is a valid discussion, even if it is a ghost debate because we do not know what estimates the cabinet takes into account. Together, we realize that 26,000 is no longer real at all. For the CDA, the question of what needs to be done will then be discussed. Those couples are much harder than saying "we're adding up all the money." Maybe the shelter should be sober. With the numbers we have now, we just can't offer the same as we did, even if we wanted to. If we offer the same thing, we must be prepared to explain to the Dutchman where the money comes from. That may be necessary, but that question comes after. First, I want to know how many applications we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u16	Those two things are connected. The amount earmarked for reception in the budget will depend on the expected inflow. Because the inflow is estimated to be so low, the amount is also estimated to be too low. So you can't tell these things apart. Mr Buma says: I want to know what the real estimate is. Then he must also be prepared to add butter to the fish and say: okay, then there must also be more money for the shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u17	That's not entirely true. You need to know how many people you're talking about first. Then you get the discussion about how to deal with the problem. It's not the other way around. We're not gonna put money down first and then see how many people come in. First, it is important to know as a Chamber what the cabinet takes into account. It would be the first time that the cabinet at this stage of the year did not at least have a picture of the numbers that policy-makers take into account. I'll stick with that. I want to know about the cabinet. Then there will be an extremely difficult discussion in the Chamber and no doubt in the Cabinet about whether we have more money available and, if so, where it comes from. We may ask ourselves whether we should try to carry out further austerities. It's possible. That is the question we must ask. That is a very difficult debate, but I insist that we cannot do so until we have an idea of the influx. The longer it takes for us to have a real picture, the more painful and politically complex the discussion will be and the higher the pressure on it will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u18	I agree with Mr Buma. The fact that the COA has to count with numbers that we know are not real already makes it very difficult. The COA has to count on a budget, which we know is not enough. Right now, I don't think we're gonna agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u19	That's a disappointing conclusion, but that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. There have been enough discussions on the refugee crisis to take stock. The common denominator of all the agreements that have been concluded so far is that there are many fine phrases about a common approach on paper, but that is vague or even completely unnamed how it should be implemented. As soon as it becomes concrete, it becomes difficult. Not in my backyard, that is what it comes down to when it comes down to, as in the general discussion that we held about the situation in the Balkans a week and a half ago. It looks decisive: hundreds of thousands of shelters and better border surveillance. What is being resolved in concrete terms? How exactly are these hundreds of thousands of shelters realized? What exactly is the aim of the agreed additional border control? Doesn't it simply lead to a strengthening of the waterbed effect that is already taking place? Then where are the refugees stranded? In Macedonia? In Bosnia? Serbia? Is it now better to coordinate the surveillance and transit of refugees in the Balkans? How is it prevented from pushing refugees into the river, as was previously reported? Wouldn't the Secretary of State also find it better if the extra money for border surveillance went instead to realizing those 100,000 shelters? The refugees we are talking about must, however, be justified. I fear that the additional border controls will come sooner than the shelters. The Secretary of State has also decided to identify a number of countries, including at least the western Balkan countries, as safe countries of origin. Are these safe third countries within the meaning of the Procedural Directive? Will asylum seekers who have travelled through these countries be returned to these countries on the basis of the safe third country criterion? How does the Dublin Regulation relate to the temporary distribution key for which it has been chosen? Does the cabinet finally share the opinion of GroenLinks that Dublin is no longer sustainable and needs to be changed? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the key? When will the Netherlands record the first people? The deal with Turkey also raises questions. Here too, the aim is to increase border controls, this time so that the refugees do not move to Europe. Not in my backyard. Those people are safe enough in Turkey, so it seems. The fact that their only perspective is a long-term stay in a refugee camp seems to be less relevant. Does the Prime Minister expect this agreement to produce something positive for Turkey or for the refugees? Or does he only see this as an advantageous method of reception? Are the refugees not trapped by this agreement in a country in which the reception situation is worrying and where there is no prospect of training or employment? Is the Turkish Government still as willing to discuss visa liberalisation and accession as before the elections? Does the Prime Minister think that Turkey, under a reinforced AKP regime, wants to talk seriously about accession again? Does he think that the European criticism of freedom of the press, the independence of the judiciary and human rights is being taken seriously in Ankara? The agreement should be further developed in the consultations between the European Commission and Turkey. What should the Prime Minister say about the drafting of the Convention on the use of European money? Can he assure us that there will be no performance contract in which stopping migration is a precondition for funding reception? Moreover, are we not investing too unilaterally in Turkey, while countries such as Jordan, Iraq and Lebanon also need additional money and support to better organise reception in the region? Just before the summer, the Chamber took the Voortman/Kuiks motion (19637, nr. 1960) on the creation of legal migration routes. What has the government done in recent weeks in the various EU referrals to increase opportunities for legal migration? Has the government, for example, tried to achieve a Europe-wide intensification of participation in UNHCR resettlement? Is the government prepared to argue this at the forthcoming consultations? After all, the Cabinet letter on the deployment at the Valletta Summit merely states that the Cabinet supports existing legal migration opportunities. Can the Prime Minister promise that he will plead for more legal migration on top of the already existing ones? What will be the contribution of the Netherlands to the UNHCR resettlement as of 2016? I'm rounding up. The current refugee crisis is a disaster for those who have left their homes because of war violence and misery. It is a source of concern and unrest for many people in this country. We must look for realistic solutions in which people are treated in a humane manner. Not in my backyard brings no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. The foreman of the German police force said this week: the stability of our society is in danger. Boundaries closed or we're losing control. The secret service added that Islamic extremism and anti-Semitism sneak into Europe with the massive influx of asylum. For the left elite, it's no cause for concern. They are blinded by their political correctness. Last month alone, the record number of 218,000 asylum seekers came to Europe. Millions are eager to make the crossing. It's mopping with the tap open. This migration of people will fundamentally change our continent. Tensions in the Netherlands are rising to the boiling point. We see it everywhere, from Enschede to Rotterdam. The political elite push asylum seekers' centres through without real citizen involvement. It's totally insane. This cabinet must close our borders for asylum seekers today. Syrians have to go straight back to Turkey, because that is just a safe country. Europe is weak. Today we are at the mercy of decadent politicians such as the German Chancellor Merkel. First, it turns Germany into one large asylum seekers' centre and then it is blackmailed by a Turkish tyrant. The Turks will receive billions of aid and will soon be able to travel visa-free. The process of accession to the EU is accelerating. We say never visa-free travel and never EU membership for Turkey. It is high time that the Netherlands firmly distanced itself from Germany's idiotic and dangerous policy. Our Prime Minister must stand up for the Netherlands. Five times we have asked for the maximum number of asylum seekers to be admitted to our country. Even today, the answer will not come. That is irresponsible and an absolute disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u22	I give the floor to Mr Kuzu. He has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. If you do not pay attention, you will lose count of the number of debates, JHA Councils and Euro Summits that we have had over the past period. However, we very much welcome the fact that these Euro summits are here. Unfortunately, decision-making is slow and implementation is much slower. Prompt financial support for reception in the region will not be available, as will the provision of hotspots. Unfortunately, too many countries within the European Union are trying to safeguard their own interests over the back of refugees. Let's be clear, DENK is for a fair distribution of refugees. Firstly, for a fair distribution internationally, so a good reception in the region. Secondly, for a fair distribution across Europe. Thirdly, for a fair distribution within the Netherlands. Good agreements are now being reached on this international distribution and reception in the region. It is good that cooperation has been sought with Turkey and that a common action plan has been drawn up. The European Union and Turkey urgently need each other on this issue. Chancellor Merkel of Germany also recognizes the importance of this. It is a good thing that the European Union is making money available to help the refugees in the region. When we talk about reception in the region, it is also important that we invest in the region, in the refugee camps, in the education of children and in humanity. We must be aware that at the moment Turkey alone is taking up three times more refugees than the number that the European Union expects to receive at the end of the year. It is also a good thing that the summit discusses the root causes of migration from Africa, but the commitment of the cabinet at this summit in Valletta is totally ignorant of the role played by multinationals. Those slurp multinationals drive entire communities away from their lands. The African countries are losing hundreds of billions due to illegal capital flights by mainly Western multinationals. And that's what research has been done in the past. In the period between 1970 and 2010, it amounted to 814 billion dollars. The distribution within Europe is not going well right now. In fact, every country in Europe should make a proportionate financial contribution to reception in the region. Every country in the European Union should, as far as we are concerned, take in proportionate refugees. As with the 160,000 refugees from Greece and Italy, the refugees must be distributed fairly throughout the European Union. We therefore find it incomprehensible that we do not share all refugees fairly across Europe in the same way. Countries that do not want to participate must feel the financial consequences of this. The whole of the European Union makes no sense if countries take over their own interests over the common interest on these major and important political issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. How much does a fugitive cost? Or what does a fugitive get? Can we afford to receive refugees in terms of money? Or can we afford to send refugees away in terms of money? Can European Member States afford to include a quota of refugees? We are now entering the concept of container and can they afford to send these refugees spontaneously or helped to another Member State? We flee in numbers and numbers, preferably in numbers and numbers that have a relationship with money. Apparently that gives comfort, because we have become accustomed to expressing all aspects of our lives and the lives of others in terms of money. According to CPB Director Laura of Spirit, you shouldn't want to pass on refugees. According to others, you have to do so in order to make trade-offs objective, so that the question of what we can and cannot afford becomes quantifiable. That's what policymakers like. It gives them comfort. It is not bad in itself to provide the problem with a numerical dimension, but it is bad if you stick to it, if that is the main basis for your opinion formation. In fact, it is a poor economic reality. Poor thing when we start expressing everything that's going on in money. Marc Chavannes wrote that in his column three years ago. I think he's right. It is a pastime of a people in confusion, even of a continent in confusion that knows no answer to the problems we have raised about ourselves. We know that more intensive border surveillance has driven or at least has not slowed down illegal immigration. Trafficking in human beings has thus become a lucrative industry, which is going on an unstoppable march. If we had been less concerned with the short-term interests of Western man and his money, we would have been prepared for today's problems. The "single issue" thinking has turned the political decision-making process upside down. We obviously don't know what to do. The debate on refugees shows the intransigence of how we deal with a problem that we have not seen coming. However, we could have seen it coming very well, if we had been less nearsighted. When I asked the Prime Minister in the previous debate a question about the link between climate change, resulting in drought, hunger and water conflicts, and the flow of refugees, he said 'I did not see it coming'. And that while the United Nations warned in 2008 of the disruption of Syria due to the drought. Of course dictatorships and ethnic conflicts cause refugee flows, but that is not the only thing. Facing the complexity of the current refugee and migration situation requires a vision and courage; courage to look at our own behaviour that causes refugee flows. Only then will structural solutions emerge. Catch refugees in the region, calls the cabinet. The region, which seems to be a place where the reception of refugees does not cause problems, where there is enough room and money for everyone, the promised country for each refugee. It is a total disregard for the fact that 97% of all Syrian refugees are already being received there, often under appalling conditions. At the same time, the cabinet withdraws development contributions from the region to finance the reception of refugees in the Netherlands. That is the coalition policy in 2015; apparent action with a high lightning rods content. People in urban areas have to deal daily with the consequences of the unguided immigration policy of the 1970s and 1980s. It is too easy to attribute anger over ghetto formation in poor neighbourhoods to the intolerance of native residents of those neighbourhoods. These residents feel put in the cold by politics and therefore often have little confidence in the way in which political involuntary migration flows can be managed. We will have to take serious account of these concerns. We do not catch refugees in Benordenhout. We will have to fulfil our moral duty to help people in need, but we will have to share fairly the problems involved, in the Netherlands and in Europe. At the same time, we will have to eliminate the causes of the flows of refugees. I ask the Prime Minister about the implementation of my motion to identify the root causes of the refugee crisis, such as climate change, our arms trade and trade policy. Furthermore, as you will not be surprised, I believe that the bio-industry needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u25	I call Mr Klein, who has one and a half minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. The seriousness of the refugee problem does not lend itself from a free-minded perspective to nationalist party politics by responding to fears. I therefore confine myself to four brief questions. Firstly, the trust fund for the Syrian refugee crisis. Amnesty International states that the Netherlands has not yet made its contribution to this fund. Is this true? If so, does the cabinet intend to make its contribution soon? Secondly, the EU action plan for Turkey. The Council's report of 15 October states that Turkey 'will take care of vulnerable people'. According to the Cabinet, therefore, can there be identifiable non-vulnerable people among refugees? If so, to what extent do they receive no or less care? Thirdly, it appeals to my group that the cabinet wants to address the various root causes of the refugee problem. For refugee flows from Africa, this is being implemented, but for Syria it is still good intentions. Does this cabinet have any concrete ideas for Syria? Finally, the Valletta Summit. The cabinet aims to provide a fair picture of refugees on the African continent through information campaigns. Can the cabinet give an idea of how these campaigns are being organised? Is the aim of these campaigns to ensure that fewer African refugees come to Europe? If not, what's the goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr. Chairman. We know that people are still drowning in the Mediterranean on a weekly basis. Of course, that's horrible. As long as we have the mentality of 'all countries individually and each for themselves', I am afraid that we will soon see images of people lying at the borders of our European countries in the mud and dying there; children, the elderly, especially now that winter is coming. Paper is patient. It is now time for a real approach. It's not just a deal, it's a commitment. It's a commitment. Only in cooperation with our neighbouring countries in Europe can we deal with this great task. It begins with the need to remove the need for flights, both in the conflict zones themselves and in their neighbouring countries. In this light, it is good that the European Commission is now making more money available for emergency aid to Lebanon, among others. However, my question to the cabinet is what help the Netherlands has now promised and has actually paid as a contribution to it. And what about the promised aid from other countries? Money is very much needed. A father will continue to feel compelled to get on a boat when there is no money for food, there is no education for his children, there is no proper care and he himself cannot work to earn his own sandwich. Until that is settled, people will continue to cross the Mediterranean from relatively safe areas, such as Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mrs Kuik rightly refers to the need for more aid in the countries of shelter, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. She asks the cabinet if any money has been transferred. Does she really want the cabinet to transfer more money than it has done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u29	The cabinet has already promised a lot of emergency aid. Compared to other European countries and even worldwide, we are the leaders. However, I read in the statistics of what we have transmitted, that this is not in line with the stories I hear. First of all, I want to know what is going on with our commitments and what has been transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u30	Your group chairman, Mr Samsom, was much more firm. Not only in his Sunday letter to the members of the PvdA, but also last Monday at Pauw. He said: life there stands still, those people see no perspective, we have to invest and there needs to be more money. I ask Mrs Kuik whether she repeats those words today, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u31	Yeah, I'll repeat that. It is therefore a good thing that the European Commission has now promised extra money. It is a good thing that we, the Netherlands, are contributing to this. It is also important that the money we have already promised is actually transferred and that other countries follow that example. This problem does not, of course, arise only in Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey. We see the same problem in Eritrea, where people are literally being chased out of the country and otherwise simply murdered. I call on the cabinet not only to look at the problems surrounding Syria, but also at those surrounding other countries from which many refugees leave. Eritrea is one of the examples of this. In order to improve the reception of refugees, negotiations are now under way with Turkey. We understand that. At the same time, we must also be very clear that we are not going to interfere with the Copenhagen criteria when it comes to Turkey's accession to the European Union. My group is also concerned about the reality of these plans. Europe is committed to giving extra money. This should ensure that more refugees receive reception and better border control. However, I would like to ask the cabinet what assurances we have now that Turkey will actually comply with the commitments made. Are we going to ensure, for example, that people can really integrate there, that they can work there? This is very much needed to prevent them from crossing the border. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mrs Kuik says: do not interfere with the Copenhagen criteria. These are the criteria for accession to the European Union. I very much agree with the PvdA, but that is also a stand-alone policy. The question is whether the PvdA, whether Mrs Kuik is prepared to make a divorce, a crystal-hard separation, between, on the one hand, the reception of refugees in Turkey, the role of Turkey in that area, and, on the other hand, the process of accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u34	What does Mrs Kuik think of the link made between the two by Commissioner Timmermans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u35	It is no secret that we approve of the reopening of the discussion on Turkey's possible accession to the European Union. However, this is separate from the talks with Turkey on reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u36	In the letter from the cabinet, however, we read that the accession talks must be resumed with full energy. It is added in one breath that good cooperation with Turkey is sought with regard to the reception of refugees. What do you think of this link? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u37	I think I've been very clear. I welcome the fact that there is talk with Turkey. I also welcome the fact that we are making extra money available for this. After all, we see that Turkey is receiving many foreigners. We must somehow offer these people a perspective. So it's a good thing you're talking about that. In addition, there is talk of Turkey's possible accession. However, this can only be done if Turkey meets the so-called Copenhagen criteria. Not all parties in this House are in favour of this being discussed at all, but my party is, albeit under that harsh condition. There is no other way to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u38	Perhaps Mrs. Kuik can confirm my conclusion. Successful cooperation on the reception of refugees must not lead to Turkey's accelerated accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u39	No. I think I was already very clear with the SP. You only talk about accession if a country like Turkey meets the criteria we have agreed on, the so-called Copenhagen criteria. Forgive me for not explaining to the viewers at home what they mean. You know what I mean by that here in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u40	Surely there is no denying that an action plan has been drawn up with Turkey? That has two legs: 1. Turkey is helping to do something about the flow of refugees and 2. In return, Europe, which was not otherwise planned, is going to engage in renewed energy talks on accession. Surely a link has been established that has nothing to do with improving human rights? Didn't you just say that you can't do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u41	We agree that accession cannot be achieved if human rights are not respected. I don't want to take anything away from that either. At the same time, we cannot deny that a great many refugees are now being received in Turkey who are there for months and sometimes even years. Eventually they get into a boat like this because they can't work there, they don't have money for food and their children don't get proper education. That is what we need to get through, and the European Commission is talking about it. I think that's a good thing. However, that is separate from the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u42	I still feel like it's not clear. Let me try to rephrase the question. Does Mrs Kuik think that this is a good time to reopen negotiations with Turkey with renewed energy, as violence increases in Turkey, intimidation increases and elections have been held that observers have said were not a model of honesty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u43	I believe that last week your and my party supported a motion calling for an open dialogue with Turkey, precisely because violence is increasing. I think this is an excellent time to talk to each other. However, we note that we still have a long way to go before Turkey meets the requirements for accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u44	A discussion on the concerns we have is quite different from a renewed energy negotiation on accession. I want to know clearly from Mrs Kuik whether this is the right time, now that we have seen worrying trends in Turkey. Is this the right time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u45	I share the skeptical feeling of "is this leading to something?'. At the same time, I want to start the conversation. I see that things are going in the wrong direction in Turkey on a number of fronts. I wish things were moving in the right direction. That is what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u46	What I find very important in the agreements with Turkey is the money for shelter. I think that is very important in the total of those agreements. I'm worried about that. How hard is that aspect now in the light of the other agreements? Suppose it is later said that stopping migration is a prerequisite for investing in care. I would find that very undesirable. I am very curious to see what the Labour Party is like on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u47	I am not quite sure if I understood the question correctly, but I think Mrs Voortman's question is: under what conditions do you agree? I believe that money should be invested to ensure that care is improved there, that children are given the opportunity to go to school and that fathers and mothers are given the opportunity to work there so that they do not feel the need to get into that boat. For the rest, we are simply sticking to the rules we have agreed in Europe on asylum, migration and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u48	Exactly. In my view, the Labour Party and the GroenLinks fully agree on the importance of good care. We agree that this is the best way to prevent people from getting into that boat. Let me put it this way: does the Labour Party agree that this agreement, that that aspect is at the top? Does she agree that this should be done anyway and that the funds for reception in the region should not be provided on the condition that, for example, more stringent border controls are carried out and that these should not be linked?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u49	I have two things to do, because I also see that there is a kind of boulevard on the Turkish border where smugglers make a lot of money every day transferring refugees. That sounds very harsh, but it is. I do not think that is a desirable situation either. So it's a matter of en-and-and. In order to ensure the best possible functioning in Europe, it is essential that the distribution of refugees and asylum seekers takes place as quickly as possible and that this also forms the basis for a new European common asylum policy. The hotspot approach is part of this. It should not, in principle, matter whether you enter Schiphol or on the Greek coast. Hence, people simply need to be redistributed to Europe. We must ensure that all countries assume their responsibilities and that we do this together. As far as we're concerned, it's not without obligation. If Member States continue to refuse to cooperate in the reception of asylum seekers and refugees, we believe that the subsidies they receive from Europe should be reduced. At the initiative of the Labour Party, a majority of the European Parliament has now adopted a proposal to this effect. We support that call. I am curious to see how the cabinet views this proposal. If you say that you are part of Europe and if you receive billions of support, you cannot say that you do not want to contribute to the enormous task we are facing today. You can't just be a part of Europe for the lusts. The Netherlands is still able to take care of refugees. Maybe we're about the only country that still makes sure people don't have to sleep on the street. However, it is now all hands on deck. I am very concerned about this, especially now that winter is coming. It would be a shame if refugees were to freeze to death on the streets because we are unable to step over our own shadow and to abandon the principle of 'every man for himself'. Those days are really over now. We can only do this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr. Chairman. There are few people who are not concerned about the arrival of refugees at the moment. I hear it day in, day out. People are worried about what is happening now, but above all about what is happening tomorrow. This afternoon we heard the news that at the end of 2016 there will be at least 3 million extra refugees arriving in Europe. The Netherlands is also facing a greater increase in the number of refugees. Some of the predicted 3 million refugees will want to settle in our country. And I'm not talking about possible future family reunification. For 50PLUS, an important question is whether the cabinet is sufficiently prepared for this situation. Is the cabinet working on the day after tomorrow? Will there be a moment before the cabinet when it says: we are sorry, Europe, it has taken long enough; the Netherlands is now making a number of decisions. As things stand at present, this question may need to be answered soon. Let us be honest: Europe is hardly moving. There's not enough action. There are above all well-meant intentions. Or am I wrong? The report of the European Council of 15 October is full of buttery definitions, such as "progress will be looked at," "Turkey and Europe will develop actions," "Frontex must make full use of its mandate" and "we have agreed on the gradual establishment of an integrated system for the management of external borders." Any sense of urgency and decisiveness seems to be lacking. That's what 50PLUS is worried about. Can the cabinet take away those concerns? What concrete operational measures are being implemented and with what timeframe? What's been realized? Are the European external borders now better guarded, as 50PLUS asked the cabinet with the support of the majority of the Chamber? How many human smugglers have been arrested? Will they be punished quickly and severely? What is the situation in the Netherlands with regard to the barrier model of human trafficking? How is the redistribution going in Europe? After all, this does not seem to go smoothly either. There will be a summit next week on migration issues. This is mainly about Euro-African cooperation. Is there also a summit with the West Asian countries in the short term? That seems 50PLUS wise. The cabinet rightly says that all countries must assume their responsibilities. They have to contribute proportionally. But what if countries do not take responsibility if they refuse to comply with the commitments made? Are there any sanctions? 50PLUS would like to see regular numbers. How many refugees arrive at Europe's external borders each week? How much in the Netherlands? How many residence permits granted? How many family reunifications? How many refugees have returned voluntarily or not? Is it possible to provide these figures every week? Both the people here and the people at home can follow the developments well and have conversations based on the correct figures. We're considering tabling a motion on this. I come to the talks and agreements between the EU and Turkey. Others have spoken about this. How exactly should we indicate the fact that the accession negotiations are being dealt with with with new energy? What is meant by "new energy" and does it play a role in the fact that the Ankara Protocol has not yet been ratified and that Turkey refuses to recognise EU Member State Cyprus? To sum up, 50PLUS on a number of proposed measures is certainly positive. However, we note a lack of action and urgency and lack a clear timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. Today we look back and look forward to another European summit. If it is not with the trade ministers, then it is with the Heads of Government. It's almost weekly. That can't be a good sign. Looking back at the top of October 15th. I note that the results of previous agreements are very disappointing. It's just not fast enough. Of course, the assigned Balkans summit, where the Secretary of State was an incoming President, should not be the stage in which we are now moving. It was already agreed in May that our external borders should be better guarded. Following that, we already had the deal with Greece that it was going to absorb and register in exchange for redistribution? We are now months later and hardly anything has happened except to reconfirm previous agreements. And that while today the European Commission announced that it would expect another 3 million refugees in the next 18 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u52	I would immediately like to refer to Mr Azmani's remark that next year another three million refugees are to be expected to be asylum seekers. My question to the VVD is why it still does not intervene. The VVD is already on its way to turning the Netherlands into one large asylum seekers' centre, but it still does not intervene. When will the VVD do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u53	I believe that the VVD is proposing things that are realistic, for example about how we deal with migration: reception in the region and stopping asylum procedures in Europe. It's also an actor. We see that this has become the government's commitment and that this has even led to a midterm policy, a policy for Europe for the medium term. In my view, these are things on the basis of which we can actually intervene. I challenge Mr Fritsma to tell us how he thinks action should be taken at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u54	I just explained that in my input. Mr Azmani said it's things that help to do something. In such vague terms, he expressed himself. But that is talk, just like the talk of him and his group leader in the media that has almost reached the border. Now we know what those words are worth. Mr Azmani says that the border is almost reached, but now that we know that three times as many asylum seekers are coming to Europe next year as this year, the border has still not been reached. The VVD has to intervene once again. The VVD should not only come up with talk before the stage, but intervene. It's possible. Shut down the borders and don't let any more asylum seekers in. Let the VVD realize that the future of this beautiful country is at stake. I hope the VVD finally comes to its senses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u55	It is the mantra "borders closed" that the PVV constantly uses. With all due respect, how does the PVV see that? "Close borders, close borders." Yes, the VVD does want the borders to be politically closed. That's what the VVD wants. What do we need for that? That is what we need: safe reception in the region. We must agree on this with third countries so that there is a perspective for people. At that time, we can stop asylum procedures in Europe which lead us to deal with an unguided influx. In short, the mantra "close borders" will have to be completed. I miss that with Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u56	Please continue with your speech. No, Mr Fritsma, Mr Azmani continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u57	Unfortunately, I have to repeat myself. It is not enough to entrust fine words to European paper. It's about putting these fine words into practice. It is now about the concrete actions that society is waiting for with sorrow. It is now about registering and receiving in the EU country where the migrant enters, as an intermediate solution, and then redistributing, thus stopping illegal transit within Europe. For the final solution, we must now agree with third safe countries in the region and invest in reception there, which will put an end to the right of asylum here. This will put an end to the risky illegal journey to Europe and give us a new direction on our migration policy. My question to the Prime Minister is obvious, but it is essential: how long will Europe continue not to follow up on the essential commitments that have been made? People who do not meet the conditions must be denied access to the European Union. If they want asylum, these migrants at the external border must be taken into action, not as they are now: people who refuse to apply for asylum, but are not prevented by the border police. On the contrary. They are even helped to migrate illegally within Europe, with a single trip to Germany, Sweden or the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr Azmani shows what it should be like, but it isn't. We look back at the summit on October 15th. Concrete agreements have been made. One such agreement is that, in exchange for greater cooperation by Turkey, negotiations with Turkey on accession will be revived, despite the deterioration of human rights. How does Mr Azmani feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u59	I hadn't gotten to that yet, but I'm not surprised that Turkey immediately blew off the tower in the negotiations. Let it be clear that for the VVD there can be no cow trade. The European Commission and Mrs Merkel must not give in to this. Turkey is not becoming a member of the European Union because we have a migration problem. In other words, the Copenhagen criteria and the ratification of the Ankara Protocol are not being negotiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u60	But this is cow business. When Turkey cooperates to help reduce the refugee problem, Europe is ready to start accession negotiations with renewed energy. Does Mr Azmani think it is right that a link has been established between cooperation in the reception of refugees in return for faster than the intention was to talk about accession, despite the deterioration of human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u61	I translate it in such a way that there are additional conversations; an extra tea or coffee session with the Turks, which talks about the situation in the country in question. In my view, it is very clear and clear to this Chamber that, given the circumstances, Turkey has not moved closer, but has moved further away from joining the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u62	For the sake of clarity, in December 2014, Mr Azmani's party said that pre-accession fees for Turkey should be suspended. Since then, the situation in Turkey has only deteriorated. However, I wonder why Mr Azmani can now accept that the accession negotiations should continue with renewed energy, whereas his party really does not think that a single penny should go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u63	I say the same thing I said to Mr Buma. Let it be clear that the situation in Turkey as regards civil liberties is further away from accession than it has ever been. I do not mind having an extra tea session with the Turks to remind you of the circumstances in the country when it comes to possible accession to the European Union and the open dialogue you are discussing. I do not think that is so strange, because I think it is quite clear that Turkey is far from meeting the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u64	That is a rather strange translation of a conclusion from the European Council, which also includes the signature of the Prime Minister. It says, "Renewed energy." That's something other than a tea session. In Turkey, this is also seen as something quite different from a tea session. Do you think this is the right time, after these elections, with intimidation and increasing violence, to say to Turkey: we are really going against these negotiations again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u65	I'll repeat my words. An extra conversation can never hurt, just to point out that circumstances have deteriorated. For the VVD it is clear and clear that we are absolutely not going to negotiate with the criteria that stand for it. Mr. Chairman. It has never been the intention of the UN Refugee Convention and everything that has resulted from it to allow this illegal transit to take place within the European Union. They are horrible images of columns of plowing people across the Balkan countries, if they have already survived the crossing over the water. I am also talking about people who are safe in Turkey and who are still crossing, because this may be their last chance for a better future in North-West Europe. Is this really what Europe wants? Then Germany: wir purchase tie. Don't our eastern neighbours have butter on their heads by inviting hundreds of thousands of migrants to this kind of statement? By putting aside the double claim, Germany unilaterally breaks the agreements with all the consequences, including for the Netherlands. Why would an EU country at the external border still comply with the agreements? Good example leads to complete chaos. On behalf of the VVD Group, I ask the Prime Minister what it takes to get back on existing agreements, so that we can get things back together. The ghost needs to get back in the bottle. Shouldn't Germany simply admit that the country didn't "schafft" it, as Sweden did more or less yesterday? It's better halfway back than all the way down. Are the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister prepared to raise this issue specifically on Monday and Wednesday? The urgency is greater than ever. The only solution to this structural problem is the agreements with third countries. I have said enough about Turkey in the debate on the interruption. The Valletta Summit is dominated by agreements with African countries. The aim is to make migratory flows from Africa manageable and stopped. These include strengthening reception capacity in the region, better border surveillance, combating trafficking in human beings and improving return. The EESC welcomes the fact that the cabinet is committed to developing agreements in country-specific partnerships. It is also good that the cabinet proposes a follow-up to the summit, including the monitoring of commitments made. Again, fine words on paper are not enough. The agreements aren't worth anything until they're kept. So it must not only be anointing words from the European Union to Africa, because Africa depends on Europe and it is its primary responsibility to manage migration on its continent. It's the root and the stick. It's not noncommittal, it's conditional. First show that Africa is serious, then deliver step by step. An EU return offensive of Africans who do not have the right to stay in Europe should be achieved in the short term through a number of Frontex charters. It would also be a good sign and the beginning of fruitful cooperation. How does the Dutch government view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u66	This brings to an end the first term of office. The rulers have indicated that they would like to consult before they answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. The distribution is that I will answer a number of questions about the general asylum policy, about the position of the Netherlands in Europe and about the elimination of the root causes. The Secretary of State will answer a large part of the questions about how the asylum system works in the European Union. He will include questions about the borders, Frontex and the situation in the Netherlands. For a very brief introduction, it should be said that the cabinet is working with an approach that assumes that we have to work on different fronts at the same time in order to manage the problem. First of all, it is very important that we remove the root causes of migration: the insufficient investment in the reception sites around Syria and the hunger problem that has arisen there, but for which, fortunately, the funds of the World Food Programme seem to be filled again. And we're building more perspective in the region. Of course, this includes the agreements we want to make with the Turks on this issue. I'll get back to you in a minute. The second part of en- en policy is the situation in Europe itself. The Secretary of State will speak shortly about improving the security of the external border. Of course, the special situation in the Balkans also plays a role. Finally, there is the question of how we deal with it ourselves in the Netherlands: a decent, but also sober shelter here in the Netherlands. Those are the three lines we work along. We are trying to control migratory flows from the region as much as possible. Europe as a whole must secure its external borders and ultimately move towards a system of redistribution in Europe, together with the improved external border situation, because of course these things belong together. And of course there is the situation in the Netherlands. I now come to a number of more specific questions. Questions have been asked about the situation with Turkey, for example. If I may put it very briefly, we are trying to agree with the Turks both on reception in Turkey and on preventing people from the Turkish reception camps or other reception situations, because many people are not in camps and are not going to take the trip to Europe. We are prepared to make a big deal of money for that. This is just gonna cost money. I cannot mention the exact amounts yet, but this is going to cost money. The Turks themselves have lost a lot of money to the shelter in Turkey. They won't do it for free. So it's cost-effective. Two other files have been mentioned. Of course, the accession process does not have any substantive link with the questions of reception in Turkey. I fully agree with everyone who noticed this. It is, of course, connected with another dossier, which has to do with visa liberalisation, because in the end we also have an interest in sending third-country nationals back to Turkey. For both dossiers, we are not going to relax or abandon criteria in any way. Many speakers have already said this, and the European Council says so. We are prepared to see the link between the negotiations with the Turks on such an action programme and the visa liberalisation process. Of course there is a substantive link between them. I do not see such a link with the accession process. That does not alter the fact that we are talking to the Turks about the whole relationship, because that is inevitable. So we're also talking about all the other things in that relationship. The accession process is part of this. The Netherlands has always said that certain chapters are blocked, but that other chapters are not blocked, such as Chapter 17. It is perfectly conceivable that we should start negotiations on such a chapter. Again, criteria are not softened in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u68	The Prime Minister ignores the fact that the conclusion is that, as part of that deal, the accession process needs to be revived. We all know that the European explanation is that we are going to renegotiate accession. Why didn't we? Because there were human rights issues. Why are we doing it now? In exchange for something with the refugees. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he can explain that we are going to talk to Turkey again about speeding up, despite the deterioration in the human rights situation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u69	Chapter 17, of course, deals with economic and monetary policy. We are not talking about chapters 23 and 24, which deal with very different issues such as the judiciary, fundamental rights, justice, security and freedom. So that's not what we're talking about. Colleagues in the European Council and I have no objection to opening discussions on, for example, Chapter 17. That must by no means mean that you think for a second of relaxing the conditions there. I have no objection to that. When you talk to the Turks about major issues such as migratory flows, it is not surprising that the whole relationship is being discussed, although of course there is no substantive link.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u70	Now the Prime Minister says it again. There is a substantive link: accelerated negotiations in exchange for refugees! Whether it's chapter 17 or chapter 80, the signal remains that there's talk to Europe about accession as soon as you do something with refugees and not as soon as you improve the human rights situation. My question to the Prime Minister is how he reconciles this with his statement of 2006, nine years ago, that accession would have been done if the human rights situation in Turkey had not improved within two years and Turkey had recognised Cyprus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u71	In the European Council we discussed the broad relationship with Turkey. That is inevitable when you talk about these kinds of themes. If we want to curb the influx of refugees into Europe, which is the main aim of the Dutch government and which I believe is a broad sharing of the Chamber, then it is inevitable that we will make agreements with Turkey. That's what we're doing. There is a substantive link to another dossier: visa liberalisation. We have interests in this dossier on a number of points, and there is no way in which we can change the criteria. So you can have conversations, but you can't let go of the criteria. There is no substantive link to the accession process, but it is not surprising that you include that aspect when you talk about the whole relationship. However, this also applies to the fact that criteria are not softened in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u72	I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, but not before I ask for a very brief explanation of Chapter 17, because not everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u73	I already gave it to you. This chapter deals with economic and monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u74	The Prime Minister is very clever about my questions. I won't let that happen. At the end of my interrupting, I asked how the Prime Minister could reconcile this with his own statement of nine years ago that Turkey had to have improved its human rights situation within two years and had to have recognised Cyprus, otherwise accession would have been lost. I would like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr Buma and I have had this debate a number of times. Let us not repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u76	This is a first. I'd like to know about the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u77	We have had the debate on Mr Buma's statements at that time and mine so often at that time. We must now look at the situation as it is. We need the Turks very much to manage the problem not only of Europe but also of Turkey itself, namely the problem of Syrian refugees. I note that there is also a dossier which certainly has a link in substance: visa liberalisation. There is also another aspect to our relationship: the accession negotiations. We're having that discussion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr Buma, you have now interrupted four times. That is good, but you are talking about the time when the Prime Minister was chairman of the political group. Now he's Prime Minister of the Netherlands. That's why he's in "K." I give Mr Van der Staaij the opportunity to put his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u79	Mr President, you cannot stand up for the Prime Minister now. At that time, the Prime Minister was the chairman of the political group...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u80	You've had four chances now. The Prime Minister has responded. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u81	The Prime Minister says that there is no substantive link to accession. Why did he agree to a formal link being made? In the context of these agreements, new energy is being discussed about accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u82	Because I don't think it's weird that you're talking to the neighbors about securing the house, now a common interest, even though the relationship with them wasn't great. Then you find that there are other files about which the conversation has been blocked because of the bad relations and you say: we're going to work on that main point, so we're going to secure the house. We want to make such agreements with the Turks about the flows of refugees. There is a link with another conflict that we had with the neighbour: the conflict about visa liberalisation. That didn't work out great, but there is a substantive link. Then it is not surprising to say that it is also necessary to see whether we can take a step forward in the other dossier, that on accession. As far as I am concerned, however, this is the case in Europe, and certainly in the Chamber, that you do not in any way alter the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u83	The Prime Minister is bound up with these talks. He used the word "in substance" before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u84	Exactly. There's no substantive link.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u85	At the same time, there is a clear connection between these two issues. New expectations are being raised in Turkey, namely that we will continue the negotiations with fresh energy. Is it not much wiser, given developments in Turkey and its support in Europe, to stop this whole accession debate and see how to develop partnerships with Turkey in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u86	I note that the biggest problem in the flow of refugees comes directly from Turkey or, to a large extent, from Turkey. Turkey plays a crucial role. The large influx of refugees has to do with this. Just look at the stream of refugees crossing the sea to Lesbos. We can make agreements with the Turks in order to achieve a better reception in Turkey. It costs money. I told you. That's a direct link. We can thus ensure that the flow to Europe is stopped. There is a substantive link to the visa liberalisation dossier. Again, in our view this also has to do with the important issue of returning third-country nationals. The Turks must meet all the requirements in the road map. We all agree on that. That's where we're gonna relax zero point zero. I don't think it's weird that when you talk about such large operations that you deal with each other, you say that there was another problem in the relationship, namely the stalled talks about joining the European Union. This process is very difficult and will not be easily drawn. However, I do not find it strange to carefully open a chapter. I have no objection to it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u87	I would like to return to Commissioner Timmermans' visit to Ankara. He traveled the day after the previous debate. The Chamber didn't know about that. The Prime Minister didn't talk about it. Did the Prime Minister know that Commissioner Timmermans was going? Did he know this deal was gonna be on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u88	I certainly didn't know that last one. That deal came around in the... I'm gonna check it out exactly in time. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u89	Will you return to it in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u90	Yes. Do my officials hear that? I'll take a look at the officials. What about the visit of Timmermans and the previous chamber debate? I don't have that exactly ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u91	If we can't go through with this, I'm gonna go through with the link. The Prime Minister says there isn't one. I understand that we have to make a financial contribution to receiving care there. Then I say, at your service. The Prime Minister says there is a substantive link to visa liberalisation. I also say at your service. However, the Prime Minister says that there is no link to renewing the negotiations with fresh energy. Then why don't we get that out of the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u92	I don't think this is a good thing. When you enter into such a big joint project with the neighbor you lived with, I find it logical that you make agreements that address the common problem directly and that you also see if you can pull some other things into the relationship. What didn't go well? What are we gonna pull? The talks on accession have been totally stalled. This is to a large extent the case with Turkey itself. Many chapters have been blocked on the Ankara Protocol. That's all gonna take a long time. We have to meet all the criteria. However, I am not surprised to see if we can discuss a chapter again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u93	The Prime Minister cites Chapter 17, but it also states that other chapters may be opened. A preference is also given. Does the Prime Minister rule out that this new energy cannot be just about Chapter 17?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u94	We are now discussing Chapter 17. We are also talking about the lifting of a French blockade on that chapter. The Commission considers that Turkish legislation in this area is so far in order that negotiations on Chapter 17 also make sense. That is why it is obvious to first look at this. Whether or not other chapters are involved, I cannot see now, but at least this is being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u95	The documents also refer to the rule of law, chapters 23 and 24. Can the Prime Minister say quite clearly here that the negotiations on these chapters are not at all discussed, given the complex situation regarding human rights and the freedom of the media, the press and journalists?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u96	There is now a Cyprus blockade on those chapters. By the way, if you want to improve these human rights, I would be interested to say to the Turks, if this blockade ever disappears,: let us have a discussion on human rights to see if there is sufficient common ground to talk about these chapters. So the Cyprus blockade will have to be removed first. It's on there, so nothing's gonna happen. Then there will have to be a discussion with the Turks and you will say: 'What is the point of talking about these chapters when we have such great problems about human rights? Or are you willing to take steps therein?" Perhaps the Turks are prepared to do so. If that's the case, I'm willing to talk about chapters 23 and 24. You're gonna have to have a preliminary conversation. This answers a lot of questions, which is the advantage of this Chamber, which I would have liked to answer. I'm going to the capita selecta, because this was a big theme, Turkey. The new emergency fund for Africa. The idea is that this fund should have a significant total amount of around 1.8 billion from existing EU funds. Member States are also going to contribute and the Netherlands is ready to contribute 15 million. We think this is important. We are also reaching further political agreements with Africa. It leads to more targeted and integrated engagement from the European Union. The question has been asked as to whether we are going to do even more on top of the current OS budget to offer prospects for people in the region. The cabinet's commitment is to ensure, in the short term, that the situation with the World Food Programme is resolved in the camps and that the immediate reason for walking is gone. In the end, of course, we want to offer more perspective, which is stated in the second half of our letter of early September so that, in a final situation, you can return people who come here, also on the basis of the safe third country criterion. All this is not yet done, all this is for the longer term. It means, however, that we want to invest in it after solving the basic necessities of life, especially as regards basic services such as education and health care. That is what we are doing at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u97	The Prime Minister is talking about a lot of vague long-term plans, but of course we do not have that much time. At the moment, we have an influx of asylum that is unprecedented. This influx of asylum might make the Prime Minister even more aware of the fact that next year it will be three times worse. Look, we can't deal with the situation right now, and next year, according to the EU, it's gonna get three times worse, because three times as many people are gonna come this way. Isn't it the Prime Minister's job to protect the Netherlands from that invasion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u98	Yes, but not in the way Mr Wilders mentioned in the Telegraph interview. There can't be a line, but there's got to be more patrol. We already do. We want to do more. We really go beyond the PVV. Apart from patrolling, I agree with Wilders, and that is what mobile surveillance is all about, and we have three things to do at the same time. Firstly, we must remove the root causes. This means investing in the region and making sure that people can stay there so that we can ultimately send them back on that basis. The second thing we need to do is to manage the flow to Europe itself. For example, by ensuring that the external borders are properly secured, the problems in Greece, but also that we achieve a fair distribution within Europe. Thirdly, in the Netherlands we must ensure a decent and sober reception in this country. I think there is broad support for this. In the end, everything is aimed at ensuring that this first line of traffic flows into Europe. We're working really hard on that. It is an en-en-en approach, which we shape step by step. It's called driving, Mr Fritsma. That goes beyond your party's proposal, because that is limited to patrolling the border. I am fine with that, and we are, but we are really doing more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u99	With all due respect, all I hear is bullshit. The nonsense begins with stronger surveillance of the external borders. We know what that means. The EU itself says that we are not going to send asylum seekers back. Asylum seekers simply enter the EU. That is even in those strange seventeen-point plans following the previous JHA Council. Only if you don't say the word "asylum," you can be stopped. What a joke! The second point is that not only the European external borders are as leaky as a basket, but this also applies particularly to the Dutch borders. This prime minister, this cabinet, hasn't stopped one asylum seeker. So please don't talk about the cabinet going beyond the PVV! Here's the thing. No more asylum seekers should be admitted to the Netherlands. It really bothers me that, now that the situation has already got out of hand and is getting three times worse next year, the Prime Minister is still not doing anything, that he is still not saying: we are stopping the asylum entry, we cannot handle it. Doesn't he realize that he is leaving the Dutch people horribly in the lurch with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u100	I always carefully read the interviews with the leader of the Party for Freedom. As a result of that interview, I found that we are doing what he proposes. In fact, we're doing more. In addition to these measures, we are also looking at how we can tackle the problems more structurally. After all, that's part of driving. I can't invite the PVV enough to study on that once in a while. This means investing in the region, so that this flow to Europe is reduced and at the same time ensuring that refugees are distributed fairly in Europe. Frankly, following that interview with Mr Wilders, I expected Mr Fritsma to be on my side today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u101	Well, let's make a correction. The Prime Minister says we're already patrolling the borders. Do you know what that means? This means that asylum seekers are being received by the military police and taken to asylum-seekers' centres. This means setting up a kind of taxi service for asylum seekers to asylum seekers' centres. That's the Prime Minister's patrol. Again, no asylum seeker has ever been stopped. They're all being taken in and they're all going into procedure. I see the Prime Minister shaking his head. He can now explain where and when an asylum seeker has been stopped at the Dutch border.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u102	Patrol at the border has nothing to do with picking up and bringing asylum seekers to a centre. That has to do with us looking for the smugglers of human beings. We're successful in that, too. It is, by the way, extremely effective. That is doing quite well at the moment and these kinds of signals are transmitted very quickly in the world of those smugglers. This is also part of governance: that you simply take practical measures and that you show that the Netherlands is not a country that lets itself be bullied like a crazy stallion. We will. It is not about bringing asylum seekers to Ter Apel, it is about catching people smugglers. I went to the border at Breda myself. I was deeply impressed by the way in which customs, the military police and the military work together and making maximum use of the rules within our European agreements are able to remove the wrong elements in this way. Fortunately, these European agreements leave much room for manoeuvre. I think that's very successful. I missed that in the interview with Mr Wilders. I would suggest that he add that next time. Here the cabinet goes a step further than the PVV. But again, I thought I would find Mr Fritsma by my side today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u103	That's not an answer to the question. I conclude that not one asylum seeker has so far been stopped at the Dutch border. They're all allowed to go through, they're all going into the procedure, and they're all being taken in. That's the conclusion. The Prime Minister can't twist that. The Netherlands is one big sweet raid. The difference with the PVV is that we want to close the borders by having the borders really guarded by the Defense Department. We want to set up border posts and stop all asylum seekers. So we do not want to offer asylum or reception. The Prime Minister, once again, is a sad conclusion. Unfortunately, it does nothing at all and leaves this problem, this invasion, the free course. And that is scandalous in one word.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u104	That is not the policy of the PVV at all. I am going to explain to Mr Fritsma what his party really wants. He doesn't want to close the border at all. He wants to patrol. It literally says, "We're not gonna build a fence, we're not gonna build a wall, we're gonna patrol." Well, so do we. We take people in, for example, smugglers. That's very effective to kill that whole business model. I think Mr Wilders has said some sensible things in that Telegraaf interview, because of course you can't close that border completely. I think that's illusory. That's what he's seeing. I therefore think that Mr Fritsma should reflect on his own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u105	The Prime Minister was just talking about the more honest...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u106	Excuse me, it was an interview in the AD!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u107	The Prime Minister was just talking about the fairer distribution between European countries, but I would like to know what sanctions are in place when countries do not participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u108	We are, of course, talking about this in the context of the Valletta Summit. How do you deal with that? It's complicated. Do you do more for more or do you... there was a nice cry for that, but I lost it. Are you or aren't you trying to seduce people to join us? It's gonna be a mix. The talks in preparation for the Valletta Summit are under way. This also applies, of course, to the fact that we do need the African countries to do so. We have to be real about that. We can demand a lot, but in the end we also need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u109	It all sounds very buttery. Then there's my second question. You're talking about a strict approach to smugglers. How many have been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u110	That number will soon be announced again. Can we call that today? Yes, that's in Mr Dijkhoff's package. That number will be mentioned later. I thought we couldn't report that until later, but it's better that we can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u111	I am surprised how irritated the Minister is when he responds to the questions about negotiations with Turkey. That's one of the important things. What surprises me is that further negotiations are being held with Turkey on accession. According to the Chamber, there is a link, but the Prime Minister doesn't think so. However, Turkey is not even considered a safe country yet. We accept that refugees are coming from Turkey, from a country which apparently will be able to join the European Union in the future. Will the Prime Minister at least have the Netherlands designated Turkey as a safe country of origin with the greatest urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u112	I think we had a very nice debate on Turkey. I didn't know I'd annoyed Mr. Buma. I'm sorry if I did. I thought this always had the support of the CDA. I believe that the CDA was also in favour of starting talks with Turkey on accession. It was a long time ago, but I think that had very broad support in the Chamber at the time. If I am mistaken, Mr Buma will correct me. It is now as if I am a huge fan of allowing Turkey to join the Union. I simply note that Europe once said that these talks would be held. I think you should do it nicely. This is extremely difficult and complicated. There are many reasons for this. I really do not see that happening in the short term or even in the medium term, perhaps even in the longer term. A lot will depend on the Turks. With these kinds of issues, you will have to look step by step at how far you can get in those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u113	I asked a question about Turkey as a safe country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mr Dijkhoff returns to the list of safe countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u115	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr Sjoerdsma asked about Mr Timmermans' visit to Turkey. It was a mandate from President Juncker to go to Turkey. There was nothing secret about that. He would have gone sooner, but because of the attack in Ankara that visit was postponed. It was announced publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u117	Let's get a little sharper. Mr Timmermans went to Ankara the day after the previous debate. I have looked at the cabinet commitment to the European Council. There was nothing in there about that visit. There was nothing in there about a planned deal with Turkey. Apparently, it was all public. The Prime Minister knew about it. I wonder why he did not make it clear in that debate that it was the cabinet's commitment to reach this deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u118	In the run-up to that debate, we have always said that we must make agreements with the Turks. That is a matter for the European Council. The fact that Juncker, the President of the Commission, asked the first Vice-President to understand himself with the Turks was a long time ago public knowledge. That visit was only postponed because of that terrible attack. That's why there was a coincidence in time. I didn't know exactly what would come out. It was not until later that we learned that there was considerable progress in those talks. There was nothing mysterious about it. It is, moreover, a matter for the Commission and not for the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u119	The PM says he didn't know what would come out of that. Did he even know what the stakes were? Did he know that the commitment was to start negotiations with renewed energy? Timmermans would announce that shortly before the elections in Ankara.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u120	There's gonna be another note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u121	You want me to wait and see?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u122	Wait a minute. I know it myself, of course, but the officials get so demotivated if I don't use their notes. That's so fucked up. Here's the note. Yes, of course I would have said that. Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u123	Do you want me to wait for the note to be read?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u124	No, you may ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u125	The question has actually already been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u126	I call the whole timeline. On 23 September there will be an informal European Council. In the report to the Chamber, the cabinet stated that political dialogue with Turkey should be strengthened. On 5 October, the meeting between Juncker and Tusk will be held in Brussels with Prime Minister Erdogan. On 9 October, the cabinet sent the annotated agenda of the European Council to the House of Representatives. That is what I am quoting. "With regard to Turkey, the European Council is likely to discuss the recent talks between the President of the Tusk European Council and Commission President Juncker with Turkish President Erdogan. During these consultations, the EU and Turkey discussed enhanced cooperation to address migration issues. These agreements have been laid down by the Commission in a draft action plan to be discussed with Turkey by Vice-President Timmermans on Friday 9 October." So this is in the cabinet's letter with the annotated agenda of the European Council. So all that had already been brought out. So we had reported even more than I already knew. The debate in the Chamber was then on 14 October, five days later. The European Council was held on 15 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u127	In my view, the Prime Minister must admit that there is a great difference with a strengthened action plan concerning the reception of refugees. There is, of course, no doubt that this would be discussed. No one thinks it's weird that money should go to Turkey for that shelter. That country carries a great burden. But there is nothing in this letter about these accession talks. The Prime Minister himself just said: I didn't know anything about it. It is in the conclusion of the European Council. So I'm going to ask you one more time: how does that suddenly happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u128	Wait a minute. I'm just gonna say it exactly. Juncker asks Timmermans: why don't you go to Turkey and see how far you can get? It's wise for Juncker to ask Timmermans, because Timmermans can do a lot. Juncker's been asking for that for a while. In the end, that will go wrong because that attack is taking place in Turkey. The conversation will therefore only take place on 14 October. That is about the day when the debate on the European Council on 15 October will take place here. We knew what was in that letter of October 9th. I just quoted that and I won't repeat it. Previously, on 23 September and following the report on the informal European Council, the cabinet said that political dialogue with Turkey should be strengthened. Then it is not so strange that you look at other elements in that relationship. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u129	Yes, I see that Mr Sjoerdsma wants to go into this further, but I think it is the best plan if the Prime Minister continues his speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u130	Okay. Mr Buma has asked a question about EUR 500 million for Greece. In order to fulfil its obligations in terms of border surveillance, reception of asylum seekers and return, Greece received EUR 430 million from the former MFF funds between 2007 and 2013. In addition, Greece has received additional funding to finance the Greek Action Plan for 2010 to 2014. How much money has been promised for military aid in the region by the Netherlands and other countries, and how much money has been transferred? We have committed EUR 202.5 million. That is what we transfer to batches, also depending on whether the plans are there. You have to be careful, because you do not transfer that money to an account, but on the basis of concrete projects. Many commitments are of recent date. So the sums have not all been transferred yet. We are working hard on this now, but we also need the region to do so. The Member States and the Commission committed EUR 1.9 billion to the Syrian crisis this year, until 15 October. The Netherlands is therefore quite relative and definitely at the top of those lists. I come to the question about the Christian minorities in Iraq. For the Netherlands, improving the position of these minorities is an important focus of policy, including in Iraq. We also call for attention to be paid to this in the context of the European Union. We support the UN mission in Iraq in the dialogue between population groups. We are also looking at how we can further improve the position of the Jezidis. The Dutch contribution to the Madad Fund has been requested. We are considering a contribution to that fund for the Syrian region. We will discuss this further in the Cabinet. It always makes sense to look at the Refugee Convention. Maybe you should change it sometime, but I would point out that this is a global treaty. So it takes a lot of time to change that. That will also be very controversial. All parties involved in the Convention should agree to this. That is why the cabinet is now focusing on ensuring, in view of the current situation in Europe, that we come up with unorthodox solutions. Fortunately, in many cases, this can also be done within the existing treaty. But I say again that I fully agree with Mr Buma: the refugee treaty is from a very different time. That will have to be adjusted once again, but before you have settled that... I suggest we try to get the problems under control for the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u131	I know that the Netherlands is at the forefront of commitments for emergency aid, but we have been asked how much has actually been transferred. After all, paper is patient. I shall just say that in the corridors I hear different amounts of money than I read in the documents on the European Commission's website.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u132	The commitment is 202.5 million. We have only transferred one group of them. That is why we need concrete projects. We can't send it to an account, it has to be projects. As soon as they are there, we are working hard on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u133	I'll come back to the Refugee Convention. I agree with the Prime Minister that this is a long-term issue. That's not what we're discussing right now. However, the question is when to start these long-term discussions. Shouldn't the ball be rolling somewhere? Can't the Netherlands take care of that? Perhaps it is conceivable that the European Union as a whole, which is much stronger than the individual Member States, could engage in this discussion. I do not rule out the fact that many more countries worldwide have an interest in a change. My question is not 'do it now, do it now', but it is: start a discussion so that it can be changed in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u134	If I promise to do that, I think a couple of people are really gonna fall down. After all, we are working so hard to solve the problems. So I'm a little hesitant. I get the point. I want to promise to look at this again if we have any air, but at the moment it is all hands on deck to manage the existing problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u135	I'm gonna try one more time. I'm sensitive to administrative overload, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u136	Well, they still look good, but it's hard work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u137	Well, they're tired. However, this is not something that needs to be worked out by the public authorities, but about which a political debate must be launched in Europe. In my opinion, Europe should develop it, not the Netherlands. Roll the ball to Brussels, I'd say, put the ball there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u138	I would certainly like to look at how the debate on the Refugee Convention lies there and what are the chances of starting a discussion about it at all. I can promise you that without a second thought. I'd really like to talk to colleagues about that here and there. However, my expectation is that everyone will say: yes, we must do so, but please, can we first manage the shorter period? I'll definitely check it out here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u139	And inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u140	Yeah, that's what the Chamber is regularly informed about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u142	I've been to Iraq recently. That is where I spoke with minorities, and that is why I made my point in the first term. I would like to inform the Prime Minister that the negotiations on the draft Constitution for Kurdistan have been stopped by minorities, because they do not recognise themselves sufficiently in the Constitution. That is above all a communication, my question is about something else. The Prime Minister just said that the WFP funds have been refilled by the European Commission. That's right: 62 million. However, these funds go to Jordan and Lebanon. I would like to give the Prime Minister to urge his colleagues and perhaps also the Minister for Development Cooperation not to forget Iraq. There are 3.5 million displaced. The WFP has said that as of 1 January, our money will run out in Iraq and then we will have to stop distributing food.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u143	I admit immediately that I am not looking at the problem through a straw but through a rather broad tube, especially Jordan, Lebanon and, of course, Syria and Turkey. I admit that we are keeping a close eye on these kinds of signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u145	I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u146	I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u147	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Sjoerdsma's questions on the permanent relocation mechanism. Mr Sjoerdsma asked very cheerfully: when will that happen? It's hard to say. The Netherlands wants to do so and we say that every time at European level, but that does not mean that it will be there. We bring it in, politically and administratively. As the maps stand, a permanent relocation mechanism is at stake in the Commission's proposal, which is far from being as far-reaching as the Netherlands would like to raise fundamental objections from some 12 or 13 Member States. So I cannot give an optimistic picture and say that we are coming very quickly with this relocation mechanism. In this sense, I share what is widely felt in the Chamber, namely that a higher rate of cooperation has not been achieved. We're dealing with that discussion. Some Member States say: let us first look at the hotspots that are now in Greece and Italy, before we make any more agreements. The Netherlands says 'at your service' with regard to these temporary measures, but we do not think they are the solution. We want to move on to a permanent Burden Sharing. We will therefore involve this issue widely, during our presidency, but also in the wider debate on Dublin. We insist on this. We do so on every occasion, but I cannot say that 27 other Member States are immediately enthusiastic about this idea. Unfortunately, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u148	I think this is the heart of the debate. If there is no permanent relocation mechanism, Italy and Greece will ask: why are we going to register these refugees, because they are in our country, they are staying in our country and they are not being divided, because there is simply no mechanism and no agreement about that? In fact, the Secretary of State says that this crisis situation is going to take a very long time. How is he going to turn that around in Brussels? Well, let me ask you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u149	I bring that to the attention not only of Brussels, but also of Berlin. Today there was a meeting in The Hague with the ambassadors of all the Member States that are based here and with the ambassadors from the candidate countries and the region. We are bringing that to the attention of the House. It's not that. However, you can see that there is division, precisely because this is a key point. A number of countries have the attitude 'it's not my problem'. It doesn't work. This threatens Schengen as we know it. As a result, we must conclude that Dublin is not working as it was agreed. A few months ago, I drew that conclusion. So you should now also hear sounds to make the link, because if there is no solidarity and shared responsibility in this element, then we should also reconsider these matters in other areas. So we do not need to convince each other that this is a serious problem for the Union and the importance of this element of the solution that the Netherlands is also putting forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u150	The Secretary of State rightly says that the other side of the coin should also be looked at. What's the government's position on that? What measures does the Cabinet envisage? What proposals could be made to those countries which do not want to contribute proportionally to the burden of these refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u151	We've already made agreements on a certain part of it. Some countries have voted against it, but they have been overvoted by a qualified majority. That is the package of measures that the Commission can take. The Commission cannot, of course, impose sanctions on the basis of an agreement that has not been made. That would be a little undemocratic. You do see a slight unravelling, where countries are already linking to budgetary flows. They say that you cannot say no to a distribution of a burden and yes to the reception of a lust and that that does not really go together anymore. I do not think that this is a preferred route for the EU, but analyzing it, you can see that this is a logical consequence if we do not come out of it. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked a question about the border and coast guard. Strengthening the European external borders is necessary. That is where we are pragmatic. We say: use the framework that exists, enable Frontex to react more effectively and efficiently and fully fill in the current mandate. The primary responsibility lies with a Member State, but during the previous JPA Council I informed my colleagues that I think it is going too slowly now. First you get a report that says: you're not doing your best enough for border surveillance. Then there'll be another warning. I believe that we should use Frontex more quickly to strengthen the coastguard in such a Member State. It is not at all unspeakable for us that this means that you are going more towards a European border and coastguard. If we have agreed that the external borders of such a country are our external borders, that also means that they do not control our external borders if they do not control their external borders. That's the line. It's not an end in itself. There will then be intervention if a country fails to comply with the agreements. It will then be examined whether it is possible to intervene more quickly to ensure that the external border, which is also ours, is monitored more quickly. A question has been asked about the contribution of the Netherlands to the hotspots and relocation. During a period of two years, the Netherlands shall make six FTE structurally available on a rotational basis in response to the request of the EASO. In response to Frontex's request, the Netherlands offered 35 experts, border guards and interpreters and 2 military land vehicles. Frontex decides on the location where they will be deployed. Mr Voordewind asked why it takes so long with the hotspots. It is a huge logistical operation, which requires a great deal from the Member States, the Commission and the agencies. According to reports, Italy has one operational hotspot in Lampedusa. Italy has to go to six hotspots, so there is still a lot of work to be done there. Greece has a lot of start-up problems at a hotspot on Lesbos. So we have all the help we need to do, but we need to be able to help. It has to be done. I therefore do not think that we have already reached a point of saying: oh, those hotspots are working; we are going to relocate. We are now on the verge of being told that those hotspots are there and working. The Netherlands is going to test this to a limited extent, but the Chamber should not have too high expectations. For example, you start with 50. You're gonna look in Italy, then, assuming it works, you're gonna start the process. However, I do not want to create too high an expectation, because the Netherlands does think that the hotspots should be effective. As long as the Commission and the countries themselves say that they are not there, there is no doubt that we are going to do something. Now they say they're here, and then we're gonna test them. I do want to remain critical of it and can continue to monitor that this is going well. That is why I would start with limited numbers of people per country in the coming period. But if we find that it doesn't work, we can't say that we're putting the relocation out for the hotspots and registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u152	I happened to be at Lampedusa a few months ago. Now there are noises about Lesbos. The aid would be dramatic there. Is the Secretary of State still going to talk about that? When you hear the sounds, your heart breaks. Can the Secretary of State tell us more about exactly what the hotspot on Lesbos means? If one is registered there and one then takes the ferry to Athens and then travels to Macedonia, Serbia and so on, I wonder what is the point of just registering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u153	The usefulness of registering would be to find someone who is transiting that he is registered and should have been relocated. The usefulness of the fingerprint is that we see in the system where someone entered and that he should have been relocated, but he apparently considered a smuggler more reliable at that time than the EU relocation system, to put it very practically. To be honest, that's also what's partly going on. One wants to see it first before one believes it. We are in favour of reception capacity at the hotspots. That's why you need to work on that slowly. I do not mean "slowly" in the sense of "we want to slow down." "Guest and careful" is a better description. You don't need a kind of symbolic registration and especially the flying through everyone as quickly as possible. That really requires that we get that right right away and make a selection there. After all, not everyone is eligible for relocation. That's where the selection must take place between propriety and non-chance. Those who are not relocated should not travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u154	Clear. Somewhere must be registered, but if that is to be done in conjunction with the hotspot on Lesbos, I ask the Secretary of State what ideas exist in Brussels to organise a shelter camp at Lesbos, so that you can redistribute and register there, if there is only a capacity of a few hundred people within the three camps at the moment, so that two thirds of the people outside the camps have to sleep in the open air.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u155	I'm gonna have to put it very carefully. At the meeting between the leaders of countries I was allowed to attend, I didn't take part in the decision-making process, you also noticed that the flow is going to Greece earlier: we're going to help, we're willing to send people. We have also agreed to create additional shelters in Greece, both in centres and through other forms of housing. We're going there with people, too. Eventually, a country has to cooperate itself. That is why there is a delay. The Commission is working hard on it, as are the people of the implementing organisations, but we cannot accept all responsibility. There is always a dependence on the Greek authorities, which influences the pace at which they succeed. We are now talking about'start-up problems' because we are still seeing some progress, but the hotspot of Greece is not the first one we can begin with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u156	I want to get a little clearer, including for the Chamber, how a hotspot like that works. When it's decided in Lesbos, I wonder which bureaucrat invented it. You just can't do something like that on an island that's been dealing with an influx of 50,000 people lately, while there are 80,000 people living on that island and it has a reception capacity of a few hundred people. Why isn't it happening on the mainland? There you should organize a shelter camp and you could register there quietly. That's not very possible on Lesbos. Who's gonna think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u157	The name's never there. By the way, it has not been thought that there is only a hotspot on Lesbos. My topographical knowledge of the mainland and the islands of Greece is not good enough to know what is true, but also on Chios, Samos, Leros and Kos hotspots are rolled out. They're just not there yet. The idea is that those hotspots are going to be in the places where people go. We in Europe can offer our help, but we cannot accept everything there. There is a little more to be said about the contact between Athens and the islands where people land. We are all helpful in this respect, but in agreement with Greece, we will determine where these hotspots will be. It seems useful to me to realize those hotspots in the places where people arrive. You'd have to have the capacity to do that. Of course, you can transfer people temporarily in anticipation of relocation, which is fine for us, but from there we have to work on improvement. Unfortunately, we cannot think in Brussels or here in The Hague exactly how to do that in Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u158	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u159	Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the validity of the residence permit. He spoke of an extension of five to seven years. On this point I can mention a number of considerations pro and contra, but it would be a shame if I mentioned them all first and Mr Van der Staaij then said: it sounds good, but I would like to have these considerations clearly in a letter. I'd better say I'm planning on writing a letter. I see Mr Van der Staaij nodding now, so that saves a lot of reading. In that letter, I can be more exhausting than I can be right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr Van der Staaij has a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u161	Can we expect that letter in the short term, so that it can still be involved in the discussion of the budget for security and justice? At that time we are talking about policy, so in that context we can discuss the consequences of the flow of refugees for our own Aliens Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u162	Yes. Agreed. Mr Van Bommel asked whether the Netherlands is participating in Frontex and whether we are doing the best we can. We're in the return charters. They are the Achilles heel of the policy, not because we do not need those charters, but because not every country that has to take people back to those charters cooperates, to the great annoyance of me and my colleagues. However, I note that after we have all stressed that the mandate for the negotiations lies with the Commission, the Commission has taken this seriously. There are now Frontex charters that we are participating in. For us, it is not an end in itself that charters should always be organised via Frontex. We are taking part in these charters in order to strengthen our position that Europe must have a leading role in this. The Netherlands prefers to do deportations through scheduled flights wherever possible, but we certainly participate in Frontex charters. We are also one of the driving forces in the direction of the Commission to use the negotiating mandate and to ensure that countries comply with the Cotonou Agreement, which requires them to take back their own residents if they have dared to do so, but have not met their asylum application. Mr Buma spoke about the prognosis and the influx. Our services are used to the fact that there are the spring note, the autumn note at different times of the year and we also have a reserve system of fluctuations in the figures and that it is very difficult to look a whole year ahead. We will inform the Chamber at the regular moments of the Autumn Note and the Spring Note about any revised estimates, because we want to make clear to the Chamber the financial implications that we provide as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u163	Does the Secretary of State really still expect 26,000 asylum seekers to arrive in the Netherlands before 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u164	Anything is possible, but we will inform you of what we intend to do in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u165	The Autumn note is about 2015. I honestly cannot imagine that there is no thought that it is no longer 26,000, and that the Secretary of State would not want to make a policy for 2016 or more. Then we should know what the estimate is for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u166	Let me see if I can get that information for the budget; whether we can bring it forward in relation to the earlier moment. I just need to see if that's official.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u167	That's a nice word: that earlier invented moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u168	Invented by myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u169	That was undoubtedly a very good time, but the question is whether this is a good time for the Chamber if we want to talk about the 2016 budget. Actually, we all feel it's not right anymore. I would therefore ask for that estimate of the figures for the budget, but I can also ask for that in the case of a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u170	In any case, I say that I am very committed to this. Perhaps I can even say in the second term that it is not only an effort obligation, but also an obligation to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u171	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr Buma also asked why Turkey is not on the list of safe countries. I would like to point out that the fact that this country is not on it does not mean that everyone gets asylum if he applies for it. Conversely, it is not excluded that someone coming from a country on the safe country list will still receive asylum, but the procedure is different. Quite frankly, there is no substantive basis for why Turkey was not put on it, as I wrote in the letter. There is a lot going on around Turkey on the European stage now, when it comes to this aspect and wider aspects. There's been a lot of discussion. There are conversations about appointments. That was a reason to see whether or not the Netherlands would put Turkey on it. We don't want this to be part of the discussion. Very pragmatically, I have also looked at its implications with a slanted eye, as an additional argument. If the question is how many people from Turkey apply here, that is a very small number. The practical effect of putting it on is rather limited. Given everything that was going on around Turkey, the final choice was not to put Turkey on the Dutch list, but it could have fallen out differently. If the Chamber feels otherwise, I have no objection in principle to that. These are the considerations why Turkey is not on the list I sent to the Chamber. However, there are countries on the list where we have significant influxes, which must be told no as soon as possible and returned, especially the Balkans. Mrs Voortman asked, as a follow-up, whether these are also safe countries in the sense that this is called against when someone has passed through that country. For the objection of safe third country it is not enough that someone has travelled through it, so that is not possible now. If someone from Syria travels through the countries on this list, that is not enough. It may be that someone has been living in Serbia for five years, not Syria. I don't know why, but it could be. When he suddenly thinks that people from his country can easily get asylum and go from Serbia to the Netherlands, you say that there is a real clear link. He really lived there for a while and didn't just come from Syria. Then you can object to that in the asylum procedure, but traveling through it is not possible. There was also a question about resettlement. The intention is still to continue to advocate that other EU countries also take responsibility for resettlement. This is also part of the longer-term perspective for the Cabinet, when it comes to resettlement as a primary means of asylum, when we have reception in certain regions. Then no more applications will be honored outside that route. The Dutch efforts in terms of numbers of resettlement do not change compared to what we have promised and do. Those numbers stay. Mr Azmani also asked for the return to Africa to be strengthened through Frontex. At the Valletta Summit, return is a crucial issue. As I said, the Cotonou Agreement states that countries must withdraw their nationals. I think we should make a firm commitment to this. An effective policy of forced return is the key to more voluntary return. It also has a deterrent effect when people know that you can go somewhere, but that you can get a no and that you have to go back. It is therefore crucial that this improves. The JHA Council of 8 October agreed to strengthen the Frontex mandate in this area. Frontex can also organise return operations on its own initiative. The committee must make further proposals on this matter, which it will present in the near future. Mr Krol asked about dealing with human trafficking. That's a cabinet priority. I can mention the number of people that we have maintained in the first period of enhanced mobile surveillance. That was 30 suspects between September 17th and October 14th. I expect very soon recent figures, so I can give an update. I can tell you that since then new suspects have been arrested and arrested as a result of the checks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u173	I had asked a specific question about the UN Envoy for Libya who is accused in The Guardian...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u174	The Prime Minister states that he will respond to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u175	I would like to clarify that. If I get a satisfactory answer to it in the second term, I am very satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u176	I have asked about the state of play of achieving legal routes for migration. That was part of the Voortman/Kuiks motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u177	We have our legal migration policy. That's part of certain conversations. It is not the first priority for us to create even more influx. We really see this in connection with the closure of other migration routes, such as on illegal routes through human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u178	One of the underlying thoughts of the motion, which also raises several aspects, was that you want to prevent people from getting into shady boats. You do that, among other things, by using legal migration routes. If the Secretary of State only looks at the existing routes, the motion has not been carried out. I would like to have a more extensive response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u179	We have a very hard commitment to allow only legal routes of migration. In the context of primary reception in the region, illegal routes are no longer supported and resettlement is the legal route. Furthermore, in the non-asylum part of my portfolio, I have a lot of activities in the field of legal migration, but they mainly concern other target groups. I'm not gonna call the whole thing because they're not in the asylum area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u180	I had asked if there would soon be a summit for the West Asian countries. I wanted to know if that's possible and if it's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u181	That question is going to be answered by the Prime Minister in the second term. We're not doing a chair dance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u182	I asked a question about the coordination of humanitarian aid in Greece. He's often short-handed. Can other countries mean anything in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u183	At the summit not only agreements were made with Greece on improving aid, but everything on the route. There are also budgets available for this. A country must then become active in order to do things and to use the aid. That remains a precarious balance. Greece is asking for help, but if it has been promised, Greece is not automatically using the aid to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u184	We are receiving concrete signals from volunteers working in Greece. They say that there are many things present, but that, for example, transport to get the stuff in the right place quickly is very inadequate. This seems to be a lack of logistics within Greece itself. Would that be a point to address at one of the forthcoming summits, so that these problems are removed as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u185	It is a permanent part of our contribution to the summits that we are talking about improving the way in which the Greeks run their country in the most diplomatic way possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u186	This put an end to the government's first term. I suggest we proceed immediately with the second term. I propose two minutes' speaking time per Member, including the reading of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u187	Mr. Chairman. This debate once again makes it painfully clear that there is a real political crisis in Europe. Those hotspots in Italy and Greece aren't gonna be there for a while. The relocation does not start, not to mention a permanent distribution mechanism. This is really worrying, given what is at stake for the people who are now in the Balkans and for the Schengen mechanism. I told you in the first term. I have three motions, which I will read as soon as possible for the sake of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU-Turkey Action Plan makes an undesirable link between the accession negotiations with Turkey and the reception of refugees;]] [[Whereas the human rights situation in Turkey has deteriorated significantly in recent years, inter alia due to severe restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of the press;]] [[whereas the Copenhagen criteria for the accession negotiations with Turkey should not be affected in any way;]] [[calls on the Government, now not to agree to relaunch negotiations with Turkey on accession to the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the current European Border Guard is coordinated by the European Agency Frontex but there is no real European Border Guard;]] [[Whereas the surveillance of the European external borders is dependent on human contributions from Member States which are far from always provided;]] [[calls on the Government to press for the establishment of an effective European Border and Coast Guard with sufficient rescue capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) does not have sufficient manpower to establish a common European asylum registration system;]] [[calls on the government to provide additional manpower to EASO and urge the other Member States to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1029]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1030]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1031]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u188	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the cabinet does nothing at all and gives the asylum invasion ample job. Even if the EU says that next year will all be three times worse than this year, the cabinet will let everything happen. It's unbelievable. And out of sheer impotence and cowardice, the Prime Minister also wants to spread a false picture of what Mr Wilders said in an interview with the AD. That was, of course, not only about patrolling the border, but also about closing the border for all asylum seekers. They'll be stopped. They won't be allowed in. They just don't get in at all, especially since they're not refugees but migrants. They are already in safe countries and therefore do not receive asylum and asylum reception. If the Prime Minister thinks it is necessary to lie about it, it is bad, but it is even worse that the cabinet continues to give away our country. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of the PVV Group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close the Dutch borders and not to allow any more asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1032]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u189	Surely we can't just let it go that a group claims that the Prime Minister is selling lies? That includes a motion of censure. I invite Mr Fritsma, in the context of 'a man a man, a word a word', to take action and put forward a motion of censure, otherwise it will be a bit of talk for the often.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u190	We're not gonna do that this time. I'll make my own motion. It is well known that the PVV Group would rather have this cabinet gone yesterday than today. I do not need to emphasise that further, because that is well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u191	The point is that the PVV Group is putting a new fact on the table. We know the appreciation of the PVV Group for this cabinet. As far as I am concerned, there will be elections tomorrow, but you will not hear me accuse the Prime Minister of lying about policy. You did today. That's new. I think you should draw on this as a consequence, which is very common in politics. That's for you to call off your confidence in the Prime Minister on that ground. You won't. That is an implicit expression of your confidence. You're making a bit of a weird dance here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u192	You don't see that very well. There has been no lies about policy, as you say. We have been lied about a presentation of an interview by the chairman of my group. That's what happened. I can prove that. I just explained that. That's what I'm gonna keep going. I don't think the Prime Minister should paint a false picture. He did. That is what I am expressing my disappointment about. Besides, I'm gonna leave it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u193	I don't think I'm going to go into this any further. However, I would like to refer to Mr Fritsma's motion. He says that the borders must be closed. Does that also mean that every lorry must be checked at the border, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u194	Yes, border controls mean that everything that the Netherlands enters and leaves is controlled. That's not hard to achieve. A country such as Switzerland already has such controls, because Switzerland is not a party to Schengen. It is also happening in the United Kingdom. There won't be miles of traffic. Economy doesn't collapse halfway. Switzerland already proves that, as the United Kingdom already proves. We have to do the same. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u195	The PVV's proposal is in fact that every truck is stopped at the border and that there is a check on whether there is anyone inside. So every truck has to open. I invite Mr Fritsma to tell his constituents what that means for the port worker in Rotterdam. There will be no more containers in Rotterdam, because the costs will increase enormously as will the waiting times. Let him explain this to the port workers and to those working at Schiphol, the Dutch mainport. Let him explain that his plans mean that they will lose their jobs!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u196	No, the PVV will explain that it is even better for the Dutch economy if the borders for asylum seekers are closed. Look how expensive it is! Each asylum seeker costs €36,000 per year. Multiply that by 10,000 or 100,000, because there will be family migration, partner migration. Everything's gonna go after it. Among other things, there will be health care costs and reception costs. All of these can no longer be paid for that port worker in Rotterdam. It is best done thanks to my party's plans, which simply stops all asylum seekers. That's what this country needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u197	Mr. Chairman. It is good to talk to the cabinet in the run-up to the forthcoming summits. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Union) is also deeply concerned about the registration and reception points in the areas where they are most common today. In order to make it clear that the Christian Union does not want at least a link between the reception of refugees in Turkey and any renewed accession talks with Turkey, I shall table the next motion. I think it is quite in line with Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. We'll see how we can continue to support each other. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Union and Turkey have presented a common action plan on refugee issues and that the European Council concluded in this context that Turkey's accession to the EU will be addressed with renewed energy;]] [[Whereas cooperation between the EU and Turkey on refugee issues and the accession negotiations between the EU and Turkey are separate paths;]] [[calls on the Government, within the European Union, to strongly renounce the suggestion that successful cooperation with Turkey on refugee issues could lead to accelerated accession to the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1033]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u198	I will also make a statement to the Chamber on Iraq's position. As was said in the first term, Iraq risks becoming a forgotten country compared to the surrounding countries. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that food distribution by the World Food Programme, UNHCR and relief organisations in Iraq, among others, is already in serious deficit and is in danger of stalling in January 2016;]] [[Whereas Iraq alone has 3.2 million displaced persons and the shortage of food and supplies in the reception camps could lead to a humanitarian disaster;]] [[calls on the Government, in the EU, to press for solutions to humanitarian aid shortages in the WFP and to provide additional resources from January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1034]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u199	In order to make a proper assessment of the motion, I have the following question. Should the Netherlands provide additional resources? Or should the European Union do so? Who are you calling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u200	The motion is now being distributed. The motion states that I call on the cabinet to call on colleagues in Europe to increase funding for the WFP in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u201	It has to be very precise. If you call on the Cabinet to pay extra money for it, it has to be covered somewhere. If you ask the cabinet to make an effort to ensure that the money that is now being released for emergency aid is also paid to Iraq, it is another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u202	That is why I ask the cabinet to urge colleagues to supplement the WFP funds. I note, as the Prime Minister has already said, that the Netherlands is reasonably at the top in terms of filling the UN jars and, above all, that other countries need to come to terms with their food distribution in Iraq. I therefore hope for your support. My final motion is about Lesbos. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Lesbos has recently been confronted with 50,000 asylum seekers who have created an acute shortage of adequate reception;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Greece, European partners and the aid organisations present, to take stock in the near future of the support that can be provided to relieve the humanitarian need in Lesbos,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1035]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u203	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. I have a few points to make very briefly. I'm not making any motions myself, but I've supported a number of motions. This shows clearly what our position is. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State has promised to come forward with the pros and cons of extending the temporary residence permit from five years to seven years before the budget procedure for Security and Justice. It seems to be a good thing for the SGP Group to extend that deadline. In any case, the letter provides a basis for further discussion in the budget handling of Security and Justice. Thank you also for the commitment to address the issue of inadequate logistics in humanitarian aid in Greece in a diplomatic manner. Finally, I come to Turkey. It will be clear that we also find the link with the accession negotiations unhappy. We will certainly support the motions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u204	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I have argued in detail that this is a test case, a litmus test for the European Union. This is a clear cross-border problem in which cooperation is needed, involving competences, money and major interests, both for the region where these people come from and for Europe itself. If the European Union cannot solve this, Europe will lose credibility. An important part of Europe's livelihood will then disappear. I ask the Prime Minister to respond to this. This is an important issue. The prime minister says the root causes must be removed. I have identified this as fighting conflict and war and fighting poverty. This means that we must move towards a different policy in these areas. I would also ask the Prime Minister to respond to this, because he has actually only responded to the second part of the question: the moment when the refugees are there. When there is shelter in the region, there must be perspective and more perspective than there is now. I therefore have a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the reception camps in the region there are not only shortages of basic necessities such as food and medical care, but also lack of adequate education, employment and hence future prospects;]] [[noting that children in refugee camps are at risk of becoming a lost generation;]] [[Whereas the future prospects for long-term refugees in reception camps should be improved;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to promote at EU level more resources to improve education facilities and promote employment in reception camps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-1036]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u205	Finally, I would like to comment on Turkey. I have advocated a complete separation between the issue of refugee shelter, in which Turkey plays a special role, and Turkey's desire to move forward on the path of accession. The Prime Minister is talking about a substantive separation of both cases. I think there should be a complete separation. This cannot apply here: for what, hear what, you help us with this problem and we help you with that problem. That should not be the case. Big words have been used, "cow business" and what's more. I believe that it should be clear that the Netherlands, and therefore the Prime Minister, will promote a complete separation between the two issues, not only in terms of content, but also in terms of politics at every level. I'm asking the Prime Minister to do this. I support the motions that have been tabled in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u206	I would like to ask a more enlightening question about Mr Van Bommel's motion. In the motion, he stated that the cabinet should plead for more money at EU level. Does he also mean to argue for a higher contribution by the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u207	Certainly, it is, if only because we have a distribution key in Europe. When Europe gives more money in certain areas, the Netherlands also has a price tag.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u208	Mr. Chairman. We have discussed the problems surrounding the refugee crisis and the cabinet's commitment to the European agenda. I continue to feel that this cabinet, especially when it comes to the negotiations in Brussels, is going after the facts. Turkey is an important subject that we discussed. The Prime Minister denies a link between the refugee crisis and the resumption of talks. Mr. Azmani says, "Well, don't worry, they're going to have tea." If I take the letter that President Erdogan sent in response to the congratulations of President Juncker, it is not about drinking tea. It's not about nothing. He writes among other things: I'm sure you are aware of the deep disappointment the Turkish people have felt in the past few years with the standstill in the access progress. Steps are needed to be taken by the EU to increase the level of trust and confidence for a common vision. What's he talking about? Further dialogue at the highest levels, concrete progress in the access talk. This isn't about tea. If the Netherlands and the European Union agree to this, we agree to establish a link between what a country should do anyway, namely to help solve a refugee crisis, and to get to Europe. It should be: you may participate if you meet the requirements. And it's not. One of the strange things is that the country we would like to talk to about joining Europe is not considered a safe country of origin at all. How is that possible? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands does not yet have a list of safe countries of origin;]] [[noting that the European Commission has placed Turkey on a draft European list of safe countries of origin;]] [[noting that the Government intends not to add Turkey to a national list of safe countries of origin;]] [[calls on the Government to add Turkey to the national list of safe countries of origin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1037]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u209	In the second term, I would like an answer from the Secretary of State if he is able and willing to give a final estimate of the inflow for the next budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u210	He's already promised. It's a good thing you're repeating that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u211	Mr. Chairman. I'll read the motions first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, by means of the Voortman/Kuiks motion, the Chamber has declared itself in favour of increased opportunities for safe and legal migration in order to prevent illegal and unsafe migration;]] [[Whereas, for example, an EU-wide intensification of participation in the UNHCR resettlement programme could be a good part of this;]] [[calls on the Government, at the Valletta Summit on Migration, to promote the creation of additional opportunities for safe and legal migration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the establishment of an emergency measure for the distribution of refugees in crisis situations has not yet resulted in a permanent solution;]] [[noting that there are signs that a number of Member States would like to wait until a permanent distribution system has been fully implemented and evaluated;]] [[calls on the Government, in the upcoming international consultations on migration, to urge the rapid establishment of a permanent mechanism for the distribution of refugees between EU Member States and far-reaching harmonisation of asylum procedures within the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the EU-Turkey deal includes a financial contribution from the EU to the reception of refugees in Turkey against Turkey's efforts to curb migration to Europe;]] [[considers that strict border controls do not change the driving-off of poor reception conditions in Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government, in the forthcoming international consultations on migration, to promote that investment by the EU in improving reception in the region is not made dependent on efforts to limit migration to Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1038]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1039]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1040]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u212	We want to prevent anything from happening if you did make that link. We do not want to see better reception in the region if there are no border controls. It is precisely by ensuring good care in the region that you prevent people from fleeing in risky ways. Reception must therefore be the first priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u213	I shall now give the floor to Mr Bontes. He has a minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u214	Mr. Chairman. I also have the letter from which Mr Buma quoted. This is just a blackmail letter. We will not be blackmailed by dictator Erdogan. Never and never! That's why I have the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to work towards the end of the accession negotiations with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to visa-free travel from Turks to EU countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1041]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1042]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u215	In time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Bontes. I would like to point out, however, that it is good practice here that people who are not present in this Chamber cannot defend themselves here. You referred to a head of state who was elected there. That is a democratically elected head of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u217	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers. When it comes to Africa, of course, you have to tackle the causes of the problems. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the African countries are losing hundreds of billions by capital flight, mainly caused by the Western multinationals;]] [[Whereas this capital flight must be stopped;]] [[Whereas this means that African countries have more money left and that the money can be used for the development of their own economies;]] [[Whereas an economically stronger Africa will reduce migration to Europe;]] [[calls on the government to include the role of multinationals in migration as one of the points for the deployment of the cabinet at the Valletta Summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1043]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u218	I would like to use the last few seconds to clarify our position on the role of Turkey in this important issue of migration. We really believe that both sides, both Turkey and the European Union, should understand each other's interests. The Prime Minister's replies to this are reassuring. I hope that colleagues in this Chamber will also see that important role of that country in that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u219	Mrs Thieme renounces a second-term contribution, just like Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u220	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers. At the same time, I do feel a little uncomfortable in this debate. I certainly have the impression that the Dutch cabinet is making every effort to work together with other countries in Europe to find a solution, both in terms of the commitment of money, the provision of capacity and the desire to co-operate on a new asylum policy to be formed. At the same time, we are extremely dependent on what other countries are doing. The question is whether there is going to be decisiveness there, which is absolutely necessary. In this light, there is one question that I do not think is sufficiently answered: what are we going to do with those Member States that are not going to get over it in the end? Are we talking about how we deal with this? It cannot be just billions of support from the same Europe for things that you find pleasant and do not want to deliver when it is difficult. This is a big task. We can only deal with them together. We must reduce the chance of people getting on that boat in a way that we do not want to do. All the parties here in the Chamber have said that they want to ensure that Turkey is helped to receive the many refugees. This is not directly linked to accession to Europe. However, it is good to start the debate on this again. In order to make it clear that this must be done in accordance with the rules we have agreed on for this purpose, the VVD colleague will also table a motion on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u221	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State. I would like to thank you for reminding the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister that, in the second term, they still have to answer questions about the Euro-African summit and my question about the Western Asian countries. That is what I am waiting for, particularly as regards the possibility and the desirability of it. I have another supplementary question about those 30 human smugglers. Is this about people who are suspected and arrested in the Netherlands, or is it about 30 people across Europe? I'd like to hear that in a moment. I'm filing three brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all the countries of the European Union should make a proportionate contribution and effort to solving the current complicated migration problem in the Western world;]] [[Whereas not all countries of the European Union have yet made this contribution and effort;]] [[calls on the government to make a strong commitment to effective sanctioning of Member States that do not make their proportionate contribution and effort,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to promote, in all European consultation situations, agreements and decisions also to establish concrete policy steps and a timetable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas systematic information on migration at national and European level can be a good basis for public opinion formation and an adequate migration policy;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an overview of the public to be consulted on a weekly basis until June 2016 with, where available, the following information:]] [[the number of migrants arriving at the external borders of Europe;]] [[the number of migrants arriving in the Netherlands;]] [[the number of residence permits granted in the Netherlands;]] [[the number of migrants entering the Netherlands as part of family reunification;]] [[the number of migrants leaving the Netherlands and the number of migrants leaving Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1044]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1045]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1046]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u222	Mr. Chairman. It is not very common for me to table a motion, but I would like to do so now. In my view, it is important for the Court to give a real ruling on the position of Turkey and the position of the Netherlands in relation to any negotiations with Turkey. There must be no blackmailing with the access criteria set out by Europe. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the Action Plan between Turkey and the EU for a joint approach to the migration crisis;]] [[Having regard to the conclusions of the European Council of 15 October last. which states that the accession process with Turkey must be revived in order to make progress in the negotiations, in accordance with the negotiating framework and the relevant Council conclusions;]] [[Whereas Turkey's accession to the European Union has been underway for decades and an open process whose outcome cannot be guaranteed in advance;]] [[calls on the Government, at the forthcoming European Summit, to make it clear that discussions on the joint approach to the migration crisis cannot lead to a relaxation of the conditions for Turkey's accession to the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azmani and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1047]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u223	I fear that Mr Azmani is now putting himself in a very difficult position. In fact, he is tabling a motion which states something that is literally government policy. This is also in the letter from the cabinet. Then his own party cannot vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u224	I don't have a message for that. I have already said that the VVD wishes to have a Chamber ruling on this matter. There must be no blackmail with the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u225	So that's what's in the cabinet's letter. It states that the terms must not be blackmailed. In today's debate, however, the question was whether this is the right time to resume these accession negotiations with new energy. Does Mr Azmani now say to the cabinet: do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u226	In my first term, I said I wouldn't mind having an extra tea session. In addition, you can say that Turkey's accession to the European Union has never been so far away. I'm fine with you having an extra conversation about that. I don't see the objection to that. It is up to others to give their own interpretation to a possible agreement. It is now important to make it clear that you will not bargain with the demands and criteria that stand for this. This has everything to do with the chapters on this subject and with the unanimity required for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u227	This also raised the question of whether this is not an open door motion. We have heard the firm stance of the government. Shouldn't this at least go hand in hand with support for one of the motions that has been tabled asking for no link at all? Then it has real power of expression. That is a much clearer signal to Turkey than, on the one hand, 'let us talk with fresh energy' and, on the other hand, 'yes, but we do not really expect much of it'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u228	The motions have been prepared. I think there are four motions on this subject. So this is an important political point in this debate. I think we're about to hear the assessment of the motions. I am not opposed to any other wording in the motions I have seen. I'm gonna have to judge it myself. So I am not saying: this must be the motion. Let that also be clear and clear. I think I've got 45 seconds. It is not just about the words that we entrust to paper, but also about the actions and actions that society must see and feel. Hence another appeal to the government. Then it is about making agreements with the African countries at the Valletta Summit. The EU Member States agree on return. Doesn't it have a symbolic value? That is what you should also ask the African countries to fly a number of charter flights with Africans who are not admitted to Europe because they have no right to stay? That's a great image for society. It is then seen that this is the beginning of fruitful cooperation. This will provide reception in the region and can stop asylum procedures in Europe and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u229	This brings to an end the second term of office. The cabinet would like to discuss for a moment the nineteen motions that have been tabled. I shall suspend the sitting until 10:55 p.m. and assume that the Chamber will agree to a further meeting after 11:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u230	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his response to the motions tabled, I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma, who wishes to pass on an amendment to a motion he has tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u231	To the motion in part No. 1030 I would like to add a recital. This is: considering that Frontex is currently not functioning adequately. I'd also like to modify the operative part. The operative part shall be as follows: invites the Government to contribute to the establishment of an effective European Border and Coast Guard with sufficient rescue capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u232	Is it a supplement or a change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u233	It is a modification of the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u234	The operative part shall then be...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u235	The operative part will be: invites the Government to contribute to the establishment of an effective European Border and Coast Guard with sufficient rescue capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u236	The Sjoerdsma motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the current European Border Guard is coordinated by the European Agency Frontex, but there is no real European Border Guard;]] [[Whereas the surveillance of the European external borders is dependent on human contributions from Member States which are far from always provided;]] [[whereas Frontex is not functioning adequately at present;]] [[calls on the Government to contribute to the establishment of an effective European Border and Coast Guard with sufficient rescue capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 1030 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u237	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Bommel asked a question about Libya. UN Envoy Leon has always acted professionally and impartially. Can I put it that way? He also has the confidence of the parties involved. I have no reason to doubt that at the moment. We also have no information that would support the story of The Guardian. Mr Van Bommel has challenged me, challenged me to say something about Europe, about the situation in Europe at the moment, also in the context of the unified refugee debate. There is, of course, every reason for concern about Europe and the question of how the European Union can deal with this problem in common and united. That's going to be difficult. I refer to Eastern Europe, which does not participate in a system of redistribution which would actually be the best way, combined with secure borders, of course, because I understand that demand from Eastern Europe. That's what we think. However, I expect that it will still be very difficult to convince Eastern Europe of a system of redistribution, even if there are secure borders. But also on the Western European side of the Union there are quite a number of countries which are less interested in this debate, whereas in my view it is of fundamental importance to Europe at the moment. I have recently made a ruling on this in a party context. I can repeat it here, because it was not a party-political statement. I can also repeat that statement as Prime Minister. I have pointed out that the texture of the European Union, the binding tissue, is in danger of tearing away if we do not manage to deal with this problem, this issue of the refugee crisis. That's how serious it is. I can't make it prettier. There has been talk of tackling the root causes. This indeed concerns the issue of the camps, but of course also the situation in Syria. I don't think we should have a whole debate on Syria right now. I know that a debate has already taken place on this subject with Minister Koenders...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This point should, of course, be part of it. A summit with Asia is not foreseen at the moment. I can say that there are intensive discussions with many countries in Asia. The summit with Africa was based on the situation in April and June. That summit is on Malta, because Malta, alongside Greece and Italy, is, of course, dealing with a high influx. It therefore seemed appropriate to allow the summit to take place in Malta. Having said that, I must inform the well-known Twitterist Bas Paternotte that Juncker is indeed President of the European Commission. Then I must have said so, because I don't know how else to reach this gentleman. I come to the motions, starting with the Sjoerdsma/Van Haersma Buma motion in part No. 1029. I don't recommend that motion. Mr Buma and others said that the negotiations with Turkey had been suspended because of human rights. That didn't matter. There is a separate dialogue on human rights. The negotiations have simply gradually come to an end. There wasn't any more fuel in it. With regard to what is now going on, I have to say that the Netherlands has not imposed any blockades on the negotiations. We never decided to do that either. There is no reason to suddenly say that we are against the negotiations. You just have to establish that there were no more chapters available to talk about. By removing blockers, such a chapter as chapter 17 is now available. However, there are several chapters in which the Netherlands has joined in a view of the Union as a whole. This concerns, for example, the eight chapters in relation to the Ankara Protocol, where there are blockades that support the Netherlands. The Netherlands never said to stop negotiating. If a chapter were to become available for conversations now, it would be strange not to allow that chapter. Therefore, I advise against this motion. I agree with the first and second recitals, but disagree with the operative part. I come to the fourth motion, the Fritsma motion in part No. 1032. As you can already hear, the Secretary of State will also deal with motions. I advise against this motion. At the Voordewind/Van der Staaij motion in part No. 1033 is about how to interpret her. I'm gonna be very specific. It is well known that we want to achieve two things in Europe. Firstly, we want to ensure that there is sufficient perspective for people in the reception locations in the region, and secondly, we want to prevent the business model from functioning with the crummy boats any longer. We want to destroy that business model, which is actually threatening people at the moment to come on the road to Europe, and all the risks behind it. There is an important key to both matters in Turkey. In the first period, we discussed this in detail. I have already said that the criteria for joining the European Union are not negotiable under any circumstances. This also applies to human rights, but equally to criteria relating to economic policy and the internal market. We also said this during our previous Presidency, in 2004, about the accession process. We have said that it is an open process whose outcome cannot be guaranteed in advance. This principle, too, is still fully valid. It's an open process. We don't know if it works, but the criteria are unnegotiable. I cannot and will not make any predictions about the pace of the accession talks and the extent to which they may or may not lead to results. I have already expressed the expectation that this will still be difficult. We also know that on a number of chapters there is a collective closing of Europe. In short, we are picking up the conversations where we can, but we are not going to relax in any way. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that Mr Voordewind means 'accelerated accession' that the criteria should not be admitted to speed up the accession process, then I see it as supporting government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u238	The motion refers not so much to the Copenhagen criteria but to the fact that successful cooperation with Turkey must not lead to accelerated accession to the European Union. That's the operative part. That's how the Prime Minister should interpret the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u239	How could successful cooperation on refugee issues lead to accelerated accession to the Union if we stick to all the criteria? I just said that. This is listening closely, Mr. Chairman. I'm just looking for a place where Mr Voordewind sees another mouse slip through the hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u240	This is the result of the letter that we have received, which states that renewed energy will return to the negotiating table because of the opening that Turkey is opening up to successfully cooperate with Europe in tackling the refugee problem. In other words, if we can now do good business with Turkey in terms of refugee reception, this should lead to negotiations on accelerated accession. That link is trying to prevent this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u241	This motion states 'accelerated accession'. In order to speed up accession, I do not need the talks on the refugee issue to go well. Accelerated accession can only be achieved if I am not against it; that seems logical to me, and I have said this a few times now if we think that we should abandon the criteria. So we don't think so. Only in this case can there be accelerated accession. If we agree, therefore, I would ask Mr Voordewind what it means to say that the criteria should not be weakened and that we should not admit to them, then the motion supports policy. But otherwise I simply don't understand the motion. I really do not see what is meant by the operative part. How can you speed up accession if you do not change the criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u242	That's a bit of fear in this whole debate. Apart from the Copenhagen criteria, he feared that the possibility of accession to the European Union could be accelerated by cooperation with Turkey on refugee issues. We'd like to get that sting out with this motion. In any case, the Copenhagen criteria must not be blackmailed. However, this must not be seen as an opening-up to accelerated accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u243	How can you accelerate accession if you stick to the Copenhagen criteria? I'm gonna find what that is right now. Otherwise, I just don't understand. In that case, I must discourage the motion because of its lack of understanding. That would be a shame, because I think we are very close together. I understand that Mr Voordewind says that he is concerned because the conclusions have been put together and that the Christian Union supports the SGP. The motion is also concerned that this could lead to the messing of the accession criteria. I am now trying to think in some distrust that I sense with Mr Voordewind I understand that distrust from the communication about this subject is going to cut a corner here and do it a little faster than it actually is possible, because this is good for the relationship with the Turks. I have said here a few times that this is not negotiable for me. We stick to all the criteria. I also see the last sentence in the motion that way. We must not slacken on this point in order to speed up accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u244	In fact, the Prime Minister is putting an extra sentence in...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u245	I'm looking for an interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u246	... that good cooperation on refugee issues must not lead to a relaxation of the Copenhagen criteria, which will result in accelerated accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u247	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u248	The Prime Minister can see the motion in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u249	Then I'm totally happy. In that case, the motion is in part No. 1033 policy support. It is a good thing that we are getting rid of this issue with each other. Also the Voordewind motion in part No. I consider 1034 to be policy support. In the European Council, I called for all Member States to contribute to the UN institutions and the WFP. In the motion Voordewind/Van der Staaij on piece No. 1035 calls on the government to take stock in the near future of how humanitarian needs can be alleviated at Lesbos. This motion also supports policy. Moreover, first and foremost Greece and the Commission are in the process of doing so. The Van Bommel motion in part No. I must advise against 1036 because of the interpretation given by Mr van Bommel. When asked whether the motion meant that the Netherlands should also give more money, he said yes. Strictly speaking, the motion would support policy, but because of Mr Van Bommel's oral explanatory statement, I have listened carefully to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u250	In my explanation of the motion, I stressed that everything we do in Europe goes through the normal distribution of European contributions and that it would therefore be logical for the Netherlands to pay for it. That is how my explanation of the motion must be understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u251	The motion calls on me to call at EU level for more resources to improve education facilities and promote employment in reception camps. This concerns part two of the cabinet's letter, which talks about the safe third country criterion, on the basis of which people who report here can be returned. This is policy support. I note now that this does not mean that the author is arguing for more money from the Dutch budget on top of what is written here. In that case, the motion supports policy. In the Voortman motion in part No. 1038 The government is invited to argue at the Valletta Summit on Migration to create additional opportunities for safe and legal migration. The cabinet talks about continuing the existing possibilities. That's the maximum, so I'm deceiving the motion. Also the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman on part No. 1040 I don't recommend. The government's policy is precisely aimed at reception in the region. More for more. This also fits in with the longer-term policy of the cabinet that I have just outlined. The Bontes motion in part No. 1041 I advise, as well as the Bones motion in part No. 1042. The Kuzu motion in part No. 1043 I guess. The point made in the motion is not the core of what it is about at the Valletta Summit. We also have problems with the preamble to the motion. Moreover, civil society in the Netherlands is very closely involved in the work. The Krol motion in part No. 1044, regarding the effective sanctioning, I advise against. We are firmly committed to ensuring that everyone participates, but sanctioning does not fit in with the approach we are currently trying to achieve. The Krol motion in part No. 1045 is unnecessary. That's how I'm gonna dissuade her. When you meet, you make a list of decisions, of course. In addition, the motion states that it must be requested at each meeting. It's gonna be a little hysterical. The Azmani/Kuiks motion in part No. 1047 is beginning to look very much like the motion-Voordewind/Van der Staaij on piece No. 1033, with the interpretation that was just given to it. It is therefore also in line with government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u252	I was somewhat reluctant to table this motion, but I am also looking at the co-author. If this motion is the same as the motion in part No. 1033 I'm willing to withdraw these. On this point, I shall withdraw the motion in part No. 1047 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u253	Since the Azmani/Kuiks motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u254	I did. That was the question about Asia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u255	I have one more question. In the motion in part No. 1045 I ask for a timetable. I miss that now. You can't argue with that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u256	Mr Krol is now becoming the secretary of the list of decisions. Let's not do that at that level. I appreciate it, we'll do it, but it's really unnecessary. All European decisions naturally look at when and so on. It also contains the word "all." It is also good if there are not always immediate lists of decisions in European discussions. I would really advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u257	I would like to see a clear timetable communicated more often in the past. We wouldn't be in so much trouble right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u258	I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the outstanding questions and his response to the last motions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u259	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with Mr Buma's question as to whether the information on the forecast for 2016 and its implications can still come before the budget debate. The answer to that is yes. We'll send it for the budget. In the Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 1030 is asked to join us or to participate in an establishment that someone else has to initiate. We'll cooperate if we need to. It is not an end in itself to replacing the coastguard in the Netherlands or in other countries where it works well with a European one. We are working on it so that we can do better by countries that are unable to do their duty, by assisting them or by replacing them. The Commission expects to be able to send its proposal on strengthening the border guard this year. Then we will determine our position via the BNC-fiche. We are very sympathetic, but I think the motion is a little premature. I explained my position on the first-term response. When the time comes, we will cooperate within the frameworks I have indicated. If I were to see the motion so general, I would advise against it, because I think it is premature in the light of the fact that it is yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u260	In my view, the Secretary of State and I agree that much national border control is not working and that Frontex is not working properly in certain areas. The purpose of this motion is to note this and to say that the Commission is coming up with a solution, namely European coastal and border surveillance, with the request to cooperate in this solution, where necessary. Of course, we do not need to change things that work well, that may be clear, but I note that this European approach needs to be broadly implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u261	I also have that positive attitude, but most of the time there is a Commission proposal, then a sheet and then we inform the Chamber. We're getting ahead of ourselves. That is what I can imagine when it comes to something that we need to initiate and which the Commission needs to come up with. Here we are on the eve of a Commission that comes forward with a proposal. Hence my judgment. The Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 1031 does require me to explain more. This motion is a response to my remark that EASO has applied for 374 experts and that we are providing six of them. I can imagine that the author, Mr Sjoerdsma, would think: that could be a bit more. If you'll allow me, I'll explain. We deliver six fte for two years. The 374 experts asked are not 374 full-time experts for two years. EASO usually requires bets for a month or a quarter. We provide a capacity of six full-time units for two years. So on that 374 we deliver more than 6. I understand that this calculation at this hour of the day is a bit tricky, so I suggest I figure out how many man hours we'll use in relation to the number of man hours requested. In this way, I can give a better insight and on that basis the Chamber can determine whether we are contributing our fair share. If the Chamber still thinks that we need to do more, it may be able to vote on the motion. I would like to take the view that the motion is being held, but of course that is not possible. So that's entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u262	The judgment cannot continue, but perhaps Mr Sjoerdsma will save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u263	I'd like to help the Secretary of State out with this. If the information doesn't come in too long, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u264	Is it possible for the budget to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u265	Sure. I haven't seen anyone fall over yet, so I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u266	I hear the commitment that the budget review will be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u267	At the request of Mr Sjoerdsma, I propose his motion (21501-20, No. 1031). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u268	The motion in part No. Mr Buma's 1037 talks about whether or not Turkey should be on the list. I've indicated why I think we shouldn't do that now. I'm dissuading the motion for the reasons I've given earlier. The motion in part No. 1039 by Mrs Voortman corresponds to the cabinet position. We want the permanent distribution mechanism and this requires a European asylum policy. In that sense, the motion supports policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u269	And with that, you'll leave the verdict to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u270	Yes. Mr Krol asked in the motion for a resolution for item No. 1046 to a whole new administration. We've got a lot of numbers coming up. Every week I give the weekly rate. We also have more detailed overviews once in a while. I don't think it makes much of a contribution to making these weekly. Moreover, they do not only contain figures that we generate in the Netherlands. I believe that quite good information is already being provided, both nationally by ourselves, the department, the IND and the CBS, and internationally by EASO and Frontex. This will be done in a reasonable time, which will enable us to inform the Chamber and the public. This motion goes much further and goes from well-informed to a bureaucratic weekly state that takes a lot of energy to deliver, but does not add much to the clear picture that is already being created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u271	The Secretary of State says he has the figures in order for the Netherlands. Today I received a letter from the European Commission stating: the Commission confirmed that the daily exchange of information is functioning. The figures from Europe are therefore not at all so difficult to obtain. Then it must be easy, even once every two weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u272	We really do differ in this regard. There is a difference between a daily exchange of information on an operational basis between Member States and the officially presented figures. The latter must meet certain standards and be completely correct. If one calls each other and says that it was very busy today and there is so much that counts, it is something else like being able to deliver correct figures on a weekly basis. There is more work in that than Mr Krol suggests. As far as possible with our weekly figures we do it, but there are a number of elements in this that would make it much more difficult. In my view, the information does not add so much to the picture that we are already giving with weekly figures, monthly and quarterly reports and annual summaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u273	That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-9.u274	Since it is a long voting list, we will suspend for 15 minutes before we vote.
