ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin immediately with Mr Van Hattem's questions. He asked about the impact that illegals and asylum seekers have on the healthcare system. He asked me to stop all facilities for illegals, with the exception of acute care. Uninsurable foreigners must pay for this care in the Netherlands in principle themselves. There is no formal collective provision or insurance for illegal immigrants. In order to ensure access to medically necessary care, there is a special scheme in the Health Insurance Act which allows healthcare providers who have a contract with the Health Care Institute to recover almost all the costs of care for illegal persons if these illegal persons cannot pay for it themselves. There is another scheme for the costs of caring for asylum seekers. It's about people who are still in procedure. The care for them is arranged through the Care Asylum Finders Scheme. This is the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. The costs of this scheme are borne by the budget of Security and Justice and do not therefore depend on the contributions of the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u2	It is true that you can see how it is arranged, but that does not say anything about the desirability of this policy. To what extent will the further influx of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants into this country reduce the cost of the welfare state? Is it desirable to continue this policy in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u3	I do not think that this is the time to discuss refugee policy with each other. We are talking about the budget of Health, Welfare and Sport. I am looking at the impact of the actual situation on this budget. The increased flow of asylum seekers has no impact on this at present, as asylum seekers are covered by Security and Justice. For illegal immigrants, we have an arrangement. You might indeed decide to only provide acute care, as you suggest, but the disadvantage of that is that you patch up in the hospital someone who, for example, had a heart attack or who needed acute medical care for other reasons, while you don't then give them the pills that prevent him from being in the same hospital in three months' time. In the end, we have decided that it is up to doctors to determine what is medically necessary. That's where we're headed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u4	Then we are on the wrong track, because he should have left the country within three months, if he has a duty to leave, is illegal and should not be staying in this country. So that's actually a perverse incentive in the system. What are you going to do to get that perverse incentive out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u5	I also believe that illegal immigrants who do not belong here should leave the country, but I have to deal with the actual situation that I have to deal with a person who needs medical care. That's a fact of that moment, whether someone should have been there or not. Then I come to the screening for infectious diseases. Among some groups of refugees there is a slightly increased presence of some infectious diseases, but these are infectious diseases that also occur in the Netherlands and on which some groups of Dutch people also have an increased risk. The normal measures are sufficient in principle to protect everyone. There is, however, additional screening of TB, scabies and clothing vaults, among other things, in asylum-seekers' shelters. It is precisely because of this screening that cases of mange and TB have been discovered in time. Patients have been treated and measures have been taken to prevent them from infecting others. In addition, the possible occurrence of MRSA is taken into account in hospitalisation. That is why asylum seekers are being treated in isolation as a precaution until they are checked that they are not infected. All children are vaccinated upon arrival, if necessary. Then I come to the displacement of Dutch healthcare professionals into the labour market by the influx of asylum seekers with a medical profession. In order to ensure that foreign healthcare providers provide the right quality care for Dutch citizens, their training and work experience must meet a number of requirements. For example, the diploma must be verified and recognised, the current knowledge (s) must be tested and mastered in Dutch. The use of these healthcare providers is therefore not possible in the short term. Moreover, unemployment among medical specialists is particularly low. According to recent information from the Capacity Body and the UWV, it is well below 1%. There are increasing shortages of district nurse care providers. We have been working for a long time to strengthen community care, both in the quality of care to be provided and in ensuring that there is sufficient capacity. This is done, among other things, together with ActiZ and the professional organisation V&VN (Professors & Verzorgenden Nederland).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u6	I had just understood that savings were being made, including on the district nurses. Is that a false assumption? I understand that it was being cut back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u7	There is indeed a discount on the transfer of district nurses. Nevertheless, all forecasts point to a shortage of district nurses, despite the discount on the transfer to district nurses. We take this into account as much as possible in our training programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u8	The Minister mentioned medical specialists, but I was talking about doctors in general, including general practitioners and other types of doctors. They certainly have a surplus on a regional scale, especially in the Randstad. Is it desirable to reinforce these effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u9	In the north and east of the Netherlands, in particular, we have a severe shortage of general practitioners. It's very difficult to get general practitioners there. I would be delighted if we could find people with training who can practice in these deficit areas through a short course. So that we have a surplus of GPs doesn't add up. Then I come to the point made by the health insurers about Article 13. It is extremely important that Article 13, which deals with selective purchasing and limited reimbursement of unpurchased care, is part of the main agreements. These basic agreements are a set of agreements which reduce our spending on health care, curative care, although we grow year by year. We are talking about cuts, but it is less than that. These agreements are about practical variation, substitution of medical-specialist care by general practitioners, reduction of beds in the ggz and construction of the outpatient care in the district et cetera. Article 13 did not go through. A set of 21 measures has been taken to compensate for this. The point is, you're gonna make a big deal with all of us. If one party says that there should be a replacement because the parts she wanted to not continue, then the replacement: Quality pays off. The whole set of measures we are taking will yield that 1 billion, not one measure from it. So you can say that Article 13 itself does not yield the 1 billion. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's a set of appointments. Article 13 was part of that. We have now replaced this with a package called Quality. It was said that preference policy was out of control. The preferential policy means selective purchasing of medicines where you can replace medicines with each other if they have the same composition. This has resulted in an incredibly large amount of money that could be spent in other parts of healthcare. This has allowed the growth to moderate enormously. We've made a deal with each other. If you can't take something, for example, because there is another filler in it, and if you put a general practitioner on a prescription "medically necessary," you can still get that spécialité at the pharmacy. The preferential policy is very successful, which has allowed us to moderate the growth of costs. It was asked: why is the risk not reduced? And it was stated that the number of defaulters is growing. The mandatory own risk ensures co-financing of care costs. It ensures that €385 is the maximum difference between someone who never uses the care but pays a lot of premium, and someone who uses the care with a very expensive disease that may cost one, two tons a year; those diseases are there. We therefore have a system in the Netherlands in which no one has to take a mortgage on his house or take loans to pay his care costs. That is a system of extreme solidarity. Even if you compare your own payments internationally in other countries, we will get quite a lot out of it. Of course there are people who have trouble paying their care costs, but in 2005, the last year of the sickness fund, the lowest income paid €541, including own payments. Ten years later, in 2016, the lowest incomes pay on average €446, including own payments, their own risk. So the lowest income now pays a lot less premium, including its own risk, than they paid for the sickness fund ten years ago. I sometimes miss that picture. In all these years, there has been a great deal of attention to the fact that the premiums remained payable to the lowest paid group. The number of defaulters has indeed increased considerably, but we started on a clean stock in 2006. That's when the year went year by year. In fact, we are at the same rate as we used to be in the health insurance system. So the percentage of defaulters now is the same as back then. There's too many of them, I say. That is why this Chamber has recently passed a law, which allows me to reduce the fine for people who really want to get out of debt. This will enable us to take all kinds of measures to reduce the number of contributors, because I agree that this is too high. But it's similar to what we used to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u10	One of my comments was that about 800 000 insured people are currently struggling to pay their health insurance contributions. I realize that this is partly due to the amount to be paid, the premium. That's what the concession is about. Your own risk is in it. But there is also another aspect: there are many more people in financial difficulties at the moment, due to debt, loss of income or all kinds of other reasons. But the signal in my speech came from Zorgverzekerings Nederland. They say: this may be a rising problem. How does the Minister anticipate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u11	The number of defaulters will be 317.832 as of 1 December 2015. Those are the latest figures. That's too high. It's similar in percentage, but it's too high. That's why I sat around the table with the debt relief, the health insurance companies and Divosa and asked them: boys, what could we do? I also went to check the neighborhoods to see what's going on. The problem is very diverse. The crisis has not done the right thing either. We have made this a whole package, which has just been approved in this Chamber. It's not like I'm thinking, well, we've got them; I'm not looking at them. No, I think we should try to reduce that number by working together. We have taken a whole series of measures on this. The first is that the fine can be reduced by 1 July. If a payer pays a fine, he can get out much faster. As soon as he starts paying, that's a sign to get out. These measures will help people who are willing to get out of their misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u12	My final question on this subject. I was talking about the 800 000 who aren't yet paying but who are having trouble coughing up the premium and their own risk. This is not only about the cost of care, but also about the fact that they have less income. So it is not only a health problem, but also, in part, a problem of poverty. This afternoon we talked to Mrs Klijnsma about children in this context. My question is: would you like to keep an eye on this and keep an eye on it in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u13	I'm sure we'll keep an eye on it. I started my reply by saying that someone with a low income is actually paying less now than ten years ago. That comes from the fact that you're watching this. In addition, we have agreed with all insurers that their own risk can be spread out. Not so long ago, we said to municipalities: conclude a collective contract whereby you reinsure your own risk for people who are financially vulnerable. That's why I'm against saying you can't reinsure your own risk. Why not? There are groups for which it is wise to do so. These are all measures to reduce the number rather than continue to increase. I come to the quality information. Do I intend to evaluate that? I agree with Mr Don that the question needs to be streamlined. The Health Inspectorate now has a demand for quality indicators that all parties can agree with. In practice, we see that it is predictable, that it is very important, and that it has a clear decision-making structure. Whatever comes with it gets a little off, too. That's a deal, too. So it's not just a question of stacking. At the Quality Institute, tripartite parties have agreed to focus on 30 conditions, so that all parties with the same list work. So those are the patients, the providers and the insurers. They're working on it together. I have agreed with the insurers that if something is registered at the Quality Institute, they will not make their own quality indicators out of 500 treatments or that kind of extra requirements. We are really moving towards an integrated approach, which is a change over recent years. So the currents are bundled a little bit. In implementing the transparency agenda, parties are still facing problems. We have also recently discussed them with each other. I picked up the glove. The Department of Health, Welfare and Sport has also started to develop a governance structure, in consultation with all those parties and the Quality Institute. This proposal provides a clearer structure for both now and for the future, so that the administrative burden of quality transparency remains manageable. All parties support this proposal, except for insurers. I am very sorry that the insurers do not support it, but I will continue to do so. I will therefore instruct the Quality Institute to develop this governance and to take it forward. We all want to promote the PROMs. Parties from the quality and efficiency agenda and the medical-specialist care do a lot of that. However, initiatives are often localised. They are also different from each other. That is why we started developing a uniform system for measuring patient experiences using PROMs this year. With funding from VWS, the Self-employed Clinics Netherlands will develop this uniform system. In addition, one of the actions of the Year of Transparency includes the addition of at least eight patient experiences. The goal is that we finally get all 30 available via PROMs and patient experience list. The PROMs for breast and colon cancer are added to the quality records in the short term. The ggz is working on and with PROMs. The PROMs-systematiek is also at the heart of the agenda of the ggz parties that I have been offered and which I have recently sent to the House of Representatives. Does all efforts in relation to quality information relate to the finding in the NVZ report that patients hardly use this information? Patients are incredibly looking for information. I've heard it before. I couldn't check it so quickly... that it's mostly searched on the Internet for medical information, more than sex. I'd think it was the other way around, but it's not. It's really unbelievable what people are looking for about their condition. If people want information about their condition, they should not end up at vague sites where you just have to wait and see what information is there. The information has to be correct. That's the whole motivation of ChooseBeter. At the Thuisarts but also at the ZorgkaartNetherlands you can see incredibly high unique number of visitors. I think that's only gonna increase. We must ensure that people who seek information can find it and that it is clear and understandable. You should not go anywhere, but via "www.kiesbeter.nl," you should be able to go to the Health Care Card or to the Homearts. So it's got to be some kind of entrance. As a government, we don't do things that others can do better. "Thuisarts.nl" is done well by the general practitioners, we are not going to take over. You can find all these sites via ChooseBetter. I think this is incredibly important and we have done far too little about it. I'm trying to make that catch-up real. Actually, we're dealing with a kicked system. People want information about the setting to be chosen. Then they want information about the doctors at that facility and then they want information about the treatment that the doctor can prescribe. Information must be available at all three levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u14	The industry report "Care Shows" notes something else. Is it perhaps right to ask the interbranch hospital organisation why this conclusion is reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u15	I'm in full talk with the hospitals about this. The NVZ also has its own website. By the way, I really like that they have it, but I also see it as a start. What you can find on that website is rather shallow. We also want to make a floor impact there. The better we serve the seeker with his question, the more satisfying this is for the seeker. We are far from there, I agree with you. However, there is a great deal of initiative. Much has happened in recent years, but we are far from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u16	You were just talking about the PROMs and the transparency agenda of 30 diseases. Do you have a timetable in mind? Of course, those 30 conditions are the most important, but I think we know hundreds of diseases. That means there's a lot of work to be done. I realize it's almost a flat question, but is there a dot on the horizon somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u17	This year 30, I said. That's really very ambitious. At first I thought, well, 30... that didn't sound like much. When you look into it, you realize we're asking a lot of questions from the sector. I can understand that there are people who sometimes sigh under the pressure we put on them. On the other hand, I think we should make that catch-up. We'll start at 30. I called it the Year of Transparency. Why? That gives me the impression that this year we are going to attract more. Next year we will also be making an agenda. Next year I want to pay extra attention to the ggz. Then I want to click on the medical-specialist care. In this way, we must work together to ensure that we get a good picture in a few years' time. We have started with the most common, but at some point the whole care is made clear. We did not say: the more, the better. I always say, "Whatever you pay for, you get it." If you pay for indicators, you get a lot of indicators. It's not about a lot of things. After all, you don't see the forest through the trees anymore. I am talking about indicators that actually say something. We need to be able to understand them. I come to the dialogue model. Care is a dialogue. When I sit with a doctor for a treatment, I want the doctor to tell me "you have those three options," said there are three, and "these are the risks and these are the benefits of the first, this of the second; oh, music is the greatest passion in your life?; This affects your hearing, so perhaps we should go to the second option." Every human being is unique. We don't have that in one piece. It's about dialogue in the office. Care is organized around that. That is why I also think that treatment should be given much more insight into what a treatment means. I have seen wonderful examples of this. At the pelvic floor mats, with which there is so much misery, you can see that a gynecologist in his spare time has created an animation for low-lettered people, who can see what something means. New technology is going to help us greatly to include those who have so far been more difficult to understand in the decisions that are possible. I see huge opportunities that we have to take together. The comparability of policies is, of course, an important thing to choose. This year there are 71 policies for basic insurance. We've asked if we can't do anything less. Next year, therefore, there will probably be around 60 policies. Insurers have therefore reduced that number by 15%. Yet you see these huge numbers. This is because the number of basic policies is multiplied by the number of supplementary insurances. This brings you to the huge number of 1,400. There are a number of things about comparability. The AFM should monitor the comparison sites carefully. Are they fair? Isn't whoever pays the most at the top? You can't do that. The AFM will make sure it's fair. Even if an insurer doesn't pay, he'll have to come at the top when he belongs at the top. The AFM has tighter standards and better monitoring. Furthermore, we have specific research conducted into the role and added value of collectivity and powers of attorney. Powers put, as it were, the multiplier on the policies. 60 basic policies are not on average two and a half policies per insurer. That is not a very strange number in itself; you have to keep something to choose from. A supplementary insurance can be made whatever you want, but we still need to see if there is not a huge amount of noise caused by the powers of attorney instead of giving that insight. In their action plan, insurers have stated in a nutshell that they report per policy why, in their view, a certain policy is of added value compared to other policies. They have also indicated by means of a package leaflet to explicitly bring special or different conditions to the attention of insured persons. That's important. Insurers have further indicated their reluctance to advertise and recruit and to ensure that discounts are available not only to prospective insurers but to all insured persons. We'll keep an eye on the monitoring to see if we've succeeded. I must say that the number of ads on the comparison sites has increased enormously and that the number of ads of insurers has decreased. There really is a visible shift here. Anyway, we'll be able to see it in the NZa's monitor. It would be very nice if we could make the battle that the effectiveness of care is made clear, with a health insurance company able to say how many recovery operations are taking place. The insurance company has that information. This will enable much more information to be disclosed than we have now. That battle will help greatly in the clarity of quality. The insurance company has that information. Based on declaration behaviour, the number of repair operations and quality data, they know a lot about quality. They increasingly make that information available to insured persons. At Silver Cross you can have an information scan made of specialists nearby, so that you can opt for a follow-up treatment. Insured persons are also increasingly involved in the procurement policy of insurers. That's important, too. This is also the subject of a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u18	This issue was discussed in detail last year. I am in favour of developments on this point, but I wonder if they are as positive as the Minister is proposing. I can well imagine that it can be more objective in a number of conditions, in particular operations and orthopedic issues and so on. But when it comes to psychosocial care, it seems to me to be a lot more complicated. Is there not a whole range of treatments in which such quality measures cannot be as easily objectiveised as the Minister now proposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u19	Let's start where we can. In knee surgery, we don't have those insights, so let's start there. I think it is extremely positive that the ggz itself is working very hard to make it much more transparent in that sector. Together with the NZa and the sector, we have looked very carefully at which funding would fit best. In England, the funding has very clear starting and stopping criteria. One does not treat endlessly, but always looks at whether one is sensible and what the added value is. We will also be able to slowly but surely take steps towards transparency with regard to the ggz. I think it is very important that ggz clients can think along with that, so that they can also engage in that conversation. I fully agree with Mr Ganzevoort that one treatment is easier than the other, but let us at least begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u20	I agree with that, also with the kickiness of the process and the continued critical monitoring of what can be done in this part of the field and what may not. The underlying question is, of course, how do you translate that into the options offered to insurers and everything related to them? Last year we had the discussion about the free choice of doctors. At this very point, my question is not so much whether we can take steps towards transparency as I think we all share that; it is good where that can be done, but much more whether insurers now have so much quality information in their hands that they are allowed to take control over them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u21	There's incredibly much information in insurers' information files. You can get a lot out of that. They do not use them sufficiently and could do much more. There's still a world to win there. You always have to outline the context. Take the mortality rate. In an institution where a lot of people die because there are the toughest patients, these mortality rates must be put into context. You can see this is happening. Hospitals themselves explain why mortality rates are so. Actually, I think that's pretty good. You invite hospitals to reflect the context. There really is a world to be won in terms of transparency in these matters. It has been asked whether I can indicate in measurable terms what the citizen can expect in 2016. We've been conducting system discussions for 30 years. Such discussions are always about systems, systems, balance and power. As I said in the House of Representatives next year, I would like to say: boys, we are now working on the systems for so long, on transfers, on 'to and from', why are we not going to use all the energy for practical solutions? Think of "where doesn't it work," "where should you tie something together" and "how can it be that one can't find one another where it's obvious?" Let us ensure that we find practical solutions where they do not come up now. I think our system offers enough room to do that. Neighborhood care has developed in the system as we have it now. Because people wanted to have community care, it grows like cabbage. An insurer is now being set up to say: we really want things to be different. I sincerely hope this insurer succeeds. The system itself admits the possibilities. I think we should focus on those aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u22	I understand the Minister's message. The plan "Our concern is ours" can we discuss only a little less next year, I understand from her words. I partly agree with the Minister that we need to look at how a particular system is keeping. If there are no major malfunctions in such a system... well, we'll have that discussion at another time. My question is what the citizens are going to notice. This afternoon we had a cup of coffee with the Secretary of State. There was a momentary discussion about the attitude of an employee who ends up with a client in a particular situation. That attitude sometimes also determines the solution. This also means that there must be room to find solutions. Does an aid worker, for example a district nurse or a hospital nurse, thus have the space to act adequately in response to a client's question instead of resorting to a protocol? The Minister is looking for a solution. Then how can you make that clear to the patient and to the caregiver?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u23	I shall come back to that later because a number of questions touched upon it. We had a Kafka session. I was very curious to see what would come out of it. Then patients are viewed completely by the system: what do they run into? What did they bump into the most? Against curative care. So I put it in a hospital. They ran into the following thing the most. Someone lives at home longer. One is more fragile and vulnerable, but things are going very well, until one stumbles over something and goes to the hospital. Then you get that the medical-specialist care in the hospital can do little for those people, because that's not what it's about. Then it's gonna be hard for these vulnerable people to go back home and then it's gonna stop, because who's gonna find who? You can come up with all kinds of things, but we have said: we form a practical team and then we just sit down in every region and we tie things up. We've got the first-line quarters. We have the problem of people being confused: people can't get to care and stay in the street somewhere, when we don't want any of that. You can make all kinds of rules for that, and then you can focus on that. We have also set up a task force to look at where it is stuck in a municipality and where we can find practical solutions together. I'll come back to that later. I think we really should do that in the coming year. I'll focus all my energy on just letting it go in practice. Asked where more direction can be expected from me. Well, here. In Zeeland the spokesmen walked. In Zeeland, everyone had a fight with everyone. It's been forever. At some point I went there and I called everyone around the table and said, "Guys, can't I? We can't let the care in Zeeland sink through the bottom, can we? Everyone's gotta take their part in this. I'll be back in a few months." That's how we started a process to see what's needed there. How is it that there are two hospitals out there fighting each other out of the tent and sending people to Belgium? Yeah, that's gonna kill those hospitals. So let's see how we in a shrinkage area like Zeeland, where we can be happy if the care stays intact.That's really a different situation than in the Randstad......................................................................................... Asked where we give more direction. I have declared the Year of Transparency. I have also linked finances to this so that everyone can free people to make the quality of care more transparent. I also mention the general practitioner's agenda. Asked how elastic the ACM is. We have seen, and this has been the case for some time now, that there was the situation with the professionals that they said: we can sign at the cross, the insurer is omnipotent. In 2014 I invited with a group of civil servants, the NZa and the ACM insurers, all hospitals and all first lineers in the Netherlands to see how we can do better. Those were very intense, emotional meetings. The system is not designed for "signing at the cross." The system is based on dialogue: what is needed, what can I deliver and what do I get for it? That's how it's done. KPMG then identified two things in an evaluation. Firstly, the insurer has a much greater dominant position than the individual professionals. Secondly, however, KPMG also said that institutions and hospitals have a much greater dominant position than insurers. If you are the only institution or hospital in your region, you get a contract and the insurer has little to bring in. That's what we see in practice. So I've done two things. No, the ACM isn't elastic and hasn't been knocked over. No, we did two things. That imbalance had to change. The helm of the general practitioners has to be changed. I played on that. I picked up the glove last October. We sat around the table. We did not say: we are going to change the system or change the system. We've been looking into what's in the way. We checked form after form to see if it adds anything to quality information. "No, this is a ticking list; we don't do that anymore." Does this add anything? "No, this is bureaucracy; we don't do that anymore." That is how we are, not the directors and me, because we all do not know about it, but the general practitioners and the buyers, who are in it, so with the people who actually do the work, everything is covered. I will do the same next year, and then with other first-line workers, such as physiotherapists and the psychotherapists. This year we are going through this process with all those who also want to go into that process to look at the issues of bureaucracy, quality and procurement together to see how we can balance things better, how we can give the professional the space to practice his profession without driving him crazy with lists. At the same time, I am going to strengthen the ACM with extra money and additional capacity. Until recently, everything was approved in terms of the second line and mergers. Big things have now been rejected. I really think we need to get a lot harder on that. So does the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u24	This all sounds very positive, I sincerely believe, but at the same time we also see a lot of problems. In my first term, for example, I mentioned the problem of care packages: certain patients and clients are simply no longer eligible for certain services. That is actually also a bureaucratic stroke of things that are no longer funded when they are really just needed for those patients. How will this be dealt with in the coming year in order to prevent Dutch citizens from falling into care between shore and ship? That question hasn't been answered yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u25	The temptation is great to answer, but I think the Secretary of State will do so in his term. In the case of decentralisation, we have looked at what we can expect from people themselves and where the government has to help if people cannot do something. The Secretary of State will deal with this later, in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u26	May I ask how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u27	I'm pretty upset. I'm with my question 20, which is about the access of the ggz through the GP. That's an obstacle to confused people. We have, together with the VNG and V and J, set up a task force on confused individuals. She's under the direction of Ms. Spies. So there are three of us. We see that the acute ggz is accessible via several channels: the GP, the GP, the ambulance and the emergency services via the police. We're doing a whole stretch. Everything is well arranged on paper, but that does not mean that things are going well in practice. So that task force has to bring things up, and it does. I went to the street doctor myself. Then you can see that everything there is well arranged on paper. However, if, for example, someone comes from detention, thinks he can live with his mother but gets to hear from her "I don't need you here," then he has no address and no insurance. That's the first problem. The second problem that really came up is that people who need acute care do get that, but because they don't have insurance, not everything that's behind it. Then I say we can arrange detention, so why can't we arrange a "care" where you deliver the care first and then do the paperwork? The third thing is that these are all kinds of ideas that we have developed ourselves, but we do not yet have them on paper; I am working on them now, because I am asking BZK why you couldn't have some sort of out-of-town officials who go by those centres to say: you're not registered, but you've been swirling the streets for twenty years, you're a real Rotterdammer. Then it's like "if the mountain doesn't want to come to Muhammad, then Muhammad must go to the mountain." You're gonna get one of those civil servants who's gonna take care of it. These are three practical things I'm really doing. I have to say that I find it disappointing how poachy and rubbery it is. However, I am very motivated to see how we can bring the practice and paper closer together. I really think it should be. The Law on compulsory mental health care, which will replace the BOPZ Act, is a very important subject. Hopefully we will be able to deal with it in Parliament next year. I have had all kinds of questions about increasing the income-dependent contribution of pensioners. I congratulate Mr Van Rooijen on his thorough preparation. In dealing with the Tax Plan, of course, we have all been able to read it. A large number of questions have been asked. Mr Van Rooijen very clearly outlines what is going to happen. However, let us discuss it where we weigh it up. This is not a single measure. It has indeed not been taken into account at all in the context of care, but in the context of purchasing power weighting. It always happens in August. If you withdraw one measure, you can always say: it is very detrimental to one group. There are, however, other measures to this end. You have to weigh that up. On the one hand you have a reduction of one side and on the other you have an increase of the other. We see that the premiums are again lower than we had estimated. This amounts to an additional burden reduction of about 0.5 billion compared to the August weighings. Well, that's pretty much taken care of, isn't it? However, it is not a matter of concern. It really is a consideration in terms of purchasing power. And, as Mr Van Rooijen correctly outlined, the amendment to Article 104 (1) of the Constitution, which he tabled together with Mr Nijpels, Mr Wöltgens, Mr Brinkhorst, Mr Abma and Mr Verbrugh, is concerned with taxation. I would like to consider that I am not going to change the law and that it will therefore have to be done with own-initiative legislation. If you change the law, you can't change her on the other side. In August we make the purchasing power scales. If you have a little girlfriend somewhere, you can take another plus somewhere else. You have to keep buttons to turn on. I have a whole speech in front of me, which I will not keep, because Mr Van Rooijen is very good at it. Actually, I'm just confirming that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u28	My point is not so much about the percentages of structural or one-off balances next year as about whether the Minister would like to have another discussion with us. It will have to take place primarily on the other side, by the way. The debate should then be on whether the change in percentages going up to 1% or possibly an increase in the limit of €53.000 can take place by law or by AMvB rather than by the Minister himself, and then look at whether or not there will be a motion that will be adopted. It is not a tax, so the article of the Constitution does not apply. That's what I said. However, it is close to a kind of tax that is close to tax. The Minister could raise the premium again next year by 1% and lift the entire band. That would be 600 million for the minister and the elderly would have lost it structurally. I don't like that democratically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u29	I could also reduce the premium, because at that time it would be a good time for purchasing power. The planned increase in the income-related contribution was reported in the Millions Note, the VWS budget and the Social Affairs budget. In all the treatment of these subjects, the General Political Reviews, the General Financial Reviews and the budget reviews, motions may be tabled if they do not wish to do so or if they do not wish to do so. So it is not that we prescribe it as a dictation. That can simply be changed in the parliamentary debate on the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u30	Thank you for the explanation. As a newcomer, I noticed that none of the three committees in this Chamber were aware of the fact that the Minister placed the decision the day after I raised it in the Chamber in the Official Journal. Secretary of State Wiebes explained to us in the answers how the whole process is going. That includes pages of explanation. That's good for everyone, but the question remains. Does the Minister not think it is democratically better to regulate it by law or by AMvB? Then the Chamber can always see if she wants something with it or not. As far as I am concerned, it should not be just a decision of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u31	I don't see it that way. I see it as an integral decision-making process on purchasing power. One can say in the Financial Reviews or in the budgetary treatment of purchasing power that one does not agree with, that older people should have more purchasing power and that it should be reduced. It's possible. I really think this is a purchasing power debate. In this context, it will be considered in full. Then you have pluses and minuses that are weighed integrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u32	You have a second term, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u33	I just have a short supplement. When the Health Fund Act was abolished, it was looked at very carefully. It was then decided to maintain the existing bandwidth in its entirety. It has also been maintained for a long time, but now it becomes a playball of purchasing power cards. I am concerned that for a very long time there was a fixed difference between the low and the normal rate. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u34	I also have an interest in keeping buttons to turn on to increase purchasing power or not. I'd like to be able to do something about purchasing power. This is a button that is used for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u35	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem said as follows: "The budget of Health, Welfare and Sport is one of the pillars of our welfare state. A welfare state that Dutch citizens have built up with hard work and for which they pay their lives decent contributions, and which they have the legitimate expectation that they will fall back on if they become unexpectedly needy." Let that be exactly the government's starting point, but in the light of the fact that this mission and objective must be achieved in the future under rather changed circumstances. We will see in the coming period that there will be twice as many elderly people. We will see that they have completely different wishes than were expressed in the past. They have other wishes about living and caring, their own choices and the amount of technology they want to use in their new situation. There are also changed financial circumstances, including individual ones. Long-term care and the AWBZ were introduced at a time when there was little pension. Now we live in a time when people have a certain pension income based on their former income. But even today there are still people who have a very modest income, where the burden of care costs is very heavy on their budget, and where the premiums paid for long-term or curative care or their own risk is very heavy on income, especially if they have several mouths to feed. This means that efforts to control costs and change care are incredibly necessary. Ensuring good care does not require that we continue in the same way, but that we make a number of choices that are very important for the future. When we talk about the welfare state, I cannot see with the best will in the world that it is being affected. Mrs. Barth recalled that. Let's take a look at the expenditure on long-term care. In 2013, we spent about 27,5 billion. In 2015, we'll be a little over 28 billion. In 2017, we will also be over 28 billion. Then we can't tell each other that the welfare state is under discussion? As far as nursing homes are concerned, we still find that about 80% of people with age problems simply live in the home. When we consider the last 15 years, we see that demand for care homes has been roughly halved, while the number of people aged 80 or over has doubled. That is a sign of the fact that we have to take other wishes into account. For district health care, which is now paid under the Health Insurance Act, a budget of 3.3 billion instead of 3.1 billion is in 2016. That is a budget that is 180 million higher in 2016. Protected housing has a budget of 1.4 billion, which has not been discounted. In short, we do need to change in care and long-term care in order to be able to respond to new needs and other people in a qualitative way. We must pay attention to affordability for people with a narrow scholarship, who will not be able to pay for the care otherwise. There is a need for these changes. I also think that we are going to have a discussion about what this means to society. Mr Van Hattem mentioned the example that the cashiers at Albert Heijn will also pay attention. I don't think it's so strange that, in and out of the age of the elderly, when a parent is sitting at the cash register for the second time with twenty rolls of biscuit, someone takes care of him and just asks him if he's okay. If someone forgets to pay, they can be wrongly accused of stealing while there may be something quite different going on. I welcome the fact that, in a society that is involved, we also call on other people than just professional care. I think that is only to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u36	From the human dimension, that is always to be applauded. It is as simple as that in principle, but care must really be for those who need it. Such care must also be sufficiently accessible. Unfortunately, we have to note that more than 60,000 nursing homes are no longer being financed at the moment. The choice to go to a nursing home is to a much lesser extent. One has to meet much higherzzp standards in order to get in at all. People used to choose to go there at a certain age, even though they didn't have any complaints yet. If the complaints came, they'd be safe and sound. That choice is now undressed. That safe option will be thrown overboard. People are forced to live longer at home. Shops like Albert Heijn and others in society are forced to take people in. I think that's a mistake. Why does the Minister outline something that is a necessity rather than a wish so positively?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u37	In doing so, I note that people over the past 15 years have been taking the last two years away for a while. Without any policy, we have increasingly chosen not to go to a nursing home, but to stay home longer. If you go to a nursing home or a nursing home and ask people what age they got there, the answer is usually: above 75. Fifteen years ago, you signed up for a retirement home when you hit 60. That situation has really changed. This means that nursing homes also change. Nursing homes sometimes become automatically nursing homes. Sometimes care homes are converted into new residential centres, in which apartments are realized to allow care to take place at home. Sometimes a nursing home is indeed closed because the case is so old, there are more bedrooms that we no longer want or because the bed can no longer be in the elevator. So we need to rebuild care to take into account the changing needs of people. This is precisely intended to continue to guarantee care in a changing, ageing society with other financial conditions for those who need care. We in the Netherlands are proud of that. As far as I am concerned, we should remain proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u38	In short, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u39	A changing society is another generalisation. As if everyone has a desire to stay home longer or everyone has a choice to stay home longer. That's not true. A lot of people just want to be able to look up the safety and security of a nursing home. This choice is being made to a lesser extent possible, precisely because people only meet the care-gravity package at a much later stage. The same applies to sheltered housing. It is still happening that young people who, for example, have psychological problems and have reached the age of majority, have to move out of shelter and can no longer go home. They fall between shore and ship. What solution is there for these young people so that they do not end up in homeless shelters or in the streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u40	In the discussion it seems as if in the new situation there is no more concern at all. I pointed out the amount of budget. That money is still available for nursing and care. There is also a budget available for sheltered housing and for community care. That is what we are going to step up over the coming period. Indeed, if people stay home longer, in some cases more care will also have to be provided in the home situation. If you look at the total amount of resources that we have available for care in the coming years, you cannot speak with the best will of the world of phasing out the welfare state. We will then see growth, especially towards the people who live at home, rather than a reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u41	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u42	Now we are actually getting to the essence. The Secretary of State talks about the budget available for, for example, sheltered housing. But people need to get access to that budget first. Access to these budgets will be further restricted. In my opinion, that is the essence of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u43	I shall come to that later in reply to Mr Don's questions. The essence is that we want to bring care closer to the people. We want to take more account of personal circumstances. We do not divide people into care packages, after which they receive an incomprehensible letter stating that they are entitled to 2.4 hours of guidance. We're gonna see what's really going on. We're gonna talk to people again. We want to be able to ask again: what is best for your situation? It is nice that in the new care system we make more room for professionals, more room for conversation and more space to take into account personal circumstances. I shall now turn to a specific question from Mr Van Hattem concerning the possibility of dying at home. I very much agree with him. I also received signals that this would not be possible. We corrected that immediately, because it is possible. If you are now in an institution and wish to die at home, it is possible under the existing rules. We have now asked the CIZ to clarify this further. There can be no misunderstanding about that; neither can we, I think. Mr Don asked whether there was sufficient room for new quality in the whole of long-term care. Is there enough room for the professional for the new quality and for taking personal circumstances into account? I think so. We have given the municipalities more space to find suitable facilities for care and support in the home situation, taking into account personal circumstances. The indications in the care packages have been abolished there. The municipality can do this with working teams or with the "kitchen table conversations," as it is called. I actually wanted to say "as it is so beautifully called," but I always have a bit of a problem with that term. This also applies to community nursing. We have made sure that the district nurse can dictate himself again, so that she or he gets the job back and knows what he or she has to do in the home situation. So the neighborhood nurse can indict himself. This movement also applies to institution care. We are not only talking about access to care, but we are also giving room for consultation between the client and the institution about what exactly is good care in this instance. One day it's six o'clock and the other day it's two o'clock. In doing so, you need to take much more account of the activities that take place there to ensure the quality of life. So we are literally and figuratively making room for regulation, so that the professional gets more space to look together with the client at what is best in his or her situation. That's not going to happen overnight. In the system that has grown in 30 or 40 years, we are used to a lot of rules, a lot of accountability and lots of protocols. So the treatment becomes important. Is the church next to the people or to the people? Are there good conversations or are there legal proceedings that we should regret? The answer lets itself be guessed. Do we really succeed in looking each other in the eye and asking: what can you do for yourself and what can we do for ourselves? Do we succeed in abolishing the incomprehensible letters? We are far from there, but I can see that there is room for regulation and that it is being used more and more. On every work visit I see bad examples but also so many good examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u44	Secretary of State, I recognize your words. I also see that you are trying to make them come true, but the municipal practices are sometimes very different. I'm not going to go into this any further, because I've got a little time to think about. I agree with what my predecessor, Mr Van Hattem, said. There remains a gap between what we consider desirable and what we see in practice. You're paying attention to it. We will continue to pay attention to it. The hole is sometimes really much bigger than we see here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u45	To some extent, I agree with Mr Don. We choose to create space in the regulations. So we give municipalities the room to take personal circumstances into account. We give district nurses the room to come up with indications themselves. We allow institutions to make good arrangements with clients and their relatives about the care provided there. Of course, that space must be used well. You will see very good examples and also very bad examples. In the coming period, therefore, we should not say: the rules have changed and we will see. No, we won't see it. We must ensure that the good examples are followed up, published and put in the spotlight and that the bad examples are addressed. Then we say, "It's not supposed to be like this." Mr Don has seen that there is a case law leading to case law. For example, it is said to a municipality: you need to do the investigation more carefully. I will therefore inform all aldermen that there is case law to be taken into account. There are also good examples all over the country. That is why I say to the aldermen: look at that, because it may also apply to your congregation. That will be the path we will have to take in 2016. We must not ask ourselves whether the rules are correct, but we must ensure that the rules work in practice as they are intended. That's what the Minister said. Of course, it's not about the rules, it's about the application. I very much agree with Mr Don. Mr Don also asked about the importance of the arrangements we have made for home care and domestic help and why this is happening now. I think these agreements are extremely important. In the case of domestic aid, we must keep the heavy care out of the wind. We must take account of the fact that there will be a heavier concern in the future. It is not unreasonable, then, to ask what the interplay should be like when it comes to domestic aid. What can you take and pay for yourself and what can't? So what do you need to be cared for by the city? It might be even more important to talk about perspective. Are we just talking about domestic aid or should we look at home support in a broader perspective? We should not just talk about domestic help, because it is also about guidance or other services that support people who live at home. That is why I think it is very important that we have been able to agree with the unions on the common perspective. I think it is very important that we do not stand against each other, but side by side, and that we will develop that perspective in the coming period. We've agreed on two more things. We must allow this development to take place without passing on to working conditions. There must be decent work against decent working conditions. The parties must also show responsible market behaviour. It shouldn't be a race to the bottom, but we have to agree on decent terms. It is perhaps even more important that the parties, the municipalities, the employers and the employees intend to develop that perspective in the coming period. I think it is very important that the step has been taken that workers' and employers' organisations should work together with the municipalities and with the support of the Empire on that new perspective for home support. Mr Don asked me to reflect on the broadcast of Nieuwsuur about personal budgets. I actually expected him to give that reflection on personal budgets himself. I've been reading the SP's plan for a while. I have not found in that that there is a great love for the personal budget, but perhaps Mr Don can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u46	A challenge of the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u47	I understand that's how you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u48	Mr. Don, you're not gonna take up that challenge now, given the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u49	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u50	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u51	We'll talk about it at another time. Personal budgets are also a big asset for the SP, but there must always be a proper balance between care in kind or the personal budget. I can't exactly judge yesterday's broadcast by its value. I've seen this one, but I haven't really looked into it. This is extremely painful for the Social Insurance Bank, which is responsible for the implementation of the pgbs. I get a little hiccups when aldermen say, "Give it to us." I do not know if that works so easily in municipalities, given the difficult purchasing processes and other processes they are in the middle of. I assume that the State Secretary himself has seen the broadcast and is critical of what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u52	I recognise from Mr Don a very cautious attitude towards what needs to be done with these pgbs, and I can appreciate that. Let us establish why we invented the operation around the personal budget and the drawing rights. That was precisely because we found that the simple deposit of money into the accounts of budget holders caused serious problems. First of all, for the budget holders in terms of ex post and ex ante and recovery. There was also misuse and abuse that the budget holder could often do nothing about, but in which all kinds of desks took over the budget, without leading to proper care for the people who it was about. When the system was introduced, it was clearly difficult for the municipalities to provide information on time, for the budget holders to check the accounts and for the caregivers to declare. It is quite logical that this system should be paid on the basis of declarations, but that has led to many problems. This has in turn led to a variety of measures so that payments could be made. We now note that the situation has improved considerably compared to last year. Municipalities have, with the necessary pressure, provided the information on time. The payments are gross modo good on time. The provision of information to budget holders has also improved. Are we there yet? Not by a long shot. Together with the House of Representatives, we have also found that a large number of improvements are still necessary and possible. We can think of simplifications so that it gets better for the budget holder. Perhaps we should think about simplification, standardisation and standardisation. On the other hand, municipalities prefer more policy space than standardisation and standardisation, because they want to be able to play more buttons. The budget holders prefer to be a bit careful with that, because if you turn too many buttons, it becomes very difficult in the execution. I wish it were true, but there's no such thing as an easy story about the pgbs. The line we have always used is to ensure that we get a good transition and that people who have to be paid are paid as well as possible. That's gonna be quite a lift. At the same time, in 2016 we will work on further improvements, simplifications, sometimes standardisation and standardisation, more room for municipalities to make decisions in the way the Social Insurance Bank does. We should not blame each other, but note that together with all the partners in the chain, we must find simple solutions for municipalities, budget holders, the Empire or the Social Insurance Bank. We have also made a number of arrangements for this. I assume that this is not the last debate we will have on personal budgets, but I note that we need to operate very carefully and carefully. We must first guarantee payments and then, in fact, make the move towards simplification and improvement, especially in the eyes of the budget holder. Finally, I have tried once again to explain why the reform of long-term care is needed. The reasons for this are quality and affordability. That brings with it great changes. We have also discussed this in detail in this Chamber, but the need for it has also been confirmed here. We have had in-depth discussions on this. At the end of this transitional year, it is particularly important to account for what has happened and what the plans are for the coming year. Let me express the hope that the need for that change endorsed by this Chamber in 2016 will also lead citizens to noticeably better health care in the longer term. Above all, we will have to find very practical solutions to any problems that may arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u53	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u54	Mr. Chairman. The Minister went through it very quickly, but I will come back to a few points. The first is that asylum seekers receive compensation for health care costs. The basic package is fully reimbursed for them and is even more extensive. The Minister says that this is from the V and J budget, so this is not really a point of order. It is true that these asylum seekers also receive day-to-day money, from which they can pay for it themselves. Let's face it, it's all taxpayers' money. The Minister is now throwing it at funding, but apart from that, there is a lot of inequality in it. That is why I think it is important for this budget. There is inequality between what is reimbursed for asylum seekers, who are offered it as a free package, and more extensively, with additional requirements, such as dental costs, physiotherapy, rollators and so on, while Dutch citizens have to pay for it. This is a form of inequality which is undesirable, and that is why it is important for this budget. Another point, which I also raised in the first place, is that the asylum seekers are not even asked whether they still have their own assets or own money. If you as a Dutch citizen have more income than above a certain value, you will not receive a health care allowance and you can pay for everything yourself. There is also an undesirable inequality in that. The same goes for the illegals. The Minister says that in this situation, what is needed and that there is a settlement. Does this also continue to apply to non-acute cases, such as dietary advice and dental prostheses? Can't the minister say, "That's too gritty, we're quitting?" Another point is an increased risk of infectious diseases in asylum seekers. The Minister says that additional screening is taking place, but not all groups are being screened more strictly. Certain screenings are not carried out on persons who are supposed to be Syrians, but we now know that there are plenty of fake passports in circulation. It is possible that someone comes from a very different country than Syria and carries an infectious disease that may not be so common in Syria, but in other countries. There must also be an eye for those risks. Those people should not just be able to walk into Dutch nursing homes to make use of recreational facilities there. Another point is preference policy. The Minister indicated that if someone really needs a medicine, on prescription, there is an indication that he should have it at the pharmacy. Last weekend there was an article in the Telegraph, with the headline "Patients are getting medication forced on." It says: "Even a prescription from the general practitioner or specialist is not sufficient in all cases. Sometimes the pharmacist threatens to have to pay extra. Pharmacists' organisation KNMP confirms the outlined course of action." Does the Minister recognise this image, as it appears in the newspaper, or does it refute it? If so, what is she going to do about it? Finally. The VWS budget points out that things need to be organized much more closely in the care sector. In doing so, the ball is actually deposited with the municipalities, which do not have sufficient resources to do so. That tension stays on. We will therefore raise this concern more frequently in the coming years. The VVD Group asked in my first term what my alternatives are. I will emphasize them once again. Now I can think about it a little more quietly. It is about tackling waste, fraud, unnecessary rules and overhead, separating care costs and housing costs and working with smaller institutions. These matters all concern the costs of care in the Netherlands. That seems to me to be a very desirable way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u55	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State. I'll be brief. It's our last day at work, but there's still a lot to do. I have asked a number of questions and I have received good answers. I'm just gonna get a few things out of it. I understand that the Minister's own risk, access to care and financial problems remain concerns. We will continue to follow this closely. Access to care is a very good thing. The Health Inspectorate has been mentioned as an example of how you can deal with reports, or rather with quality systems and quality indicators. I'd heard that somewhere else before. I think it would be a good idea to take an example. I assume that we will see the PROMs (Patient Reported Outcome Measures) in the letters on Quality pays off. The Minister has addressed these and they have been brought to the attention of the House. I was with the minister once in a while a bit of a whining about the insurance companies. We recognize that, of course. Insurers remain independent private organisations that sometimes make their own choices. I have heard the Minister talk about the outpatient alternatives to ggz clients on the street and the model of unsolicited emergency care. That's a model, but the minister looks at different models. There will be an opinion. We'll keep following that. I will certainly continue to do so with my other hat, the Salvation Army. I've heard the Secretary of State speak of the space the professionals themselves must seek in relation to clients. That's what the Minister was talking about. This will also have to be visible to the caregivers next year. The point is that they get a little more insight into their care and that care can be better tailored. We have also talked about the Social Insurance Bank, which remains a point of attention to the Secretary of State. We'll follow it further. I conclude by wishing you all good holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u56	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her brief but clear answer. She might have had a longer exhibition, but she didn't. I'll give up too. I find it enlightening, although I suspected it, that the Minister admits that, in addition to the carding of disk rates and tax rebates within the Tax Plan, there is also a map of the income-dependent premium. This is not formally a state tax and is therefore not covered by Article 104 of the Van Rooijen and Others amendment. From back then. The Minister thus maps each year with three ministers on the old age discount, which is also included in the Tax Plan and the band between the employers' rate and the rate for self-employed and pensioners, which is lower. It is discussed whether it is brought down or up and whether it is one-off or structural. We've seen these games now. Let me put it more formally: we have seen these movements. They will probably come again next year. We do not think that is a good thing. There was a standard difference in the Health Fund Act, and we'd like to keep it. We take the Minister's suggestion to heart to think about an initiative legislative proposal. It is a law or an AMvB and therefore not a ministerial arrangement of three ministers. We will seriously consider this. Otherwise, in the coming years, we will remain a bit of a toy in those spielerei. It is a very easy way of meeting only the elderly. I don't see it happening anytime soon, but the Minister said it could go down. If the minister does that next year, it'll be a nice Christmas present for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u57	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I think we can be done pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u58	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem reviewed the points on which we differed and found that we differed. I would like to make a comment. If you're asylum seeker or illegal, you don't often talk about dietary advice. In the case of an illegal person who uses medical care, it is about other matters. For screening, we follow the advice of the ECDC (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control). There's the knowledge about infectious diseases. We follow the advice of our own RIVM, which has the Centre on Infection Disease Control, and the GD's. I'm not gonna do that risk analysis myself. If this set of experts says that TB is not very common in certain areas and that it is better to organise your screening differently, we do so. So I take those decisions on the basis of the advice of the experts we have in the Netherlands. Then I come to the policy of preference. If it is medically necessary to take a spécialité, it must be reimbursed. If you don't get paid, you can go to the NZa's complaints office. That's how we arranged it. Mr Don noted that there is a lot to do and that we will talk about it more often. The focus is on solving practical problems in the coming year. The income-dependent contribution applies not only to the elderly but also tozzp'ers. So the group is a bit wider. I note that the co-decision is not discussed by three ministers but by the whole cabinet. We discuss what it looks like every year. That is where the trade-offs take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u59	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u60	Mr. Chairman. In implementing the policy, Mr Van Hattem asked for attention to be paid to tackling bureaucracy, separating the costs of living and caring, waste and small scale. These subjects are also very high on my list. They are essential to create space that we all need in this area. As Mr Van Hattem may know, in the coming year we will be evaluating the experiment of low-level institutions, which was also set up in the Lower House on the initiative of his party. We will also provide this with a broader approach to reducing administrative burdens. I think that's very important. In the direction of Mr Don, I can confirm that anchoring a simpler and future-proof pgb will require due attention in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u61	I have a brief question for the Minister. She talked about how advice on infectious diseases is produced. My question was partly about the problem of the many false passports. This makes it unclear whether a person comes from a risk country. How is it handled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u62	This question is addressed to the Minister, but it seems difficult to answer in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u63	Our people from the G.D.D.'s are looking at what's coming up in all the centers. They monitor that and keep an eye on it. Of course someone could have a fake passport. People from Eritrea really need to be screened on TV. In Syria, TB is much less common. In the Netherlands it is even less common. So it's not necessary for people from Syria. They therefore look closely at who is in the centres, what is present and how to act on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-12.u64	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
