ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Not only did the article in de Volkskrant last Friday give us concern, but also the signals we receive from all over the Netherlands that the pressure on the waiting lists in the rental market is increasing alarmingly. We can all wait for it, but we know that pressure will increase even further. The approach of the CDA motion on status holders recently adopted by the Chamber was that we want a solution to the problem of displacement on the list of house seekers. We do not think it can be explained that the list of house seekers is growing all over the country and the waiting period is increasing even further. We want explicit attention to be paid to displacement on the list of house seekers, now and not in six weeks' time! In the Volkskrant, Aedes also identified a number of additional bottlenecks created by the new Housing Act. The Minister's reaction in the Volkskrant surprised us: "The obstacles are known to us and we take them very seriously" and "Before 1 November, the Minister will send a letter to the House of Representatives in which he responds." We have the following questions to the Minister about this publication. Why is the Minister waiting for the letter until November 1st? What don't we know yet? All the facts are known, aren't they? If the roof leaks and I call the plumber, then I find the announcement that a letter will come in six weeks' time not a good answer either. Can the Minister respond to the obstacles that the corporations see through Aedes? Is the Minister prepared to consider whether the sale of rental homes by corporations can be stopped immediately and whether financial compensation can be used to ensure that the new building does not stop? Finally, what is the Minister going to do more about the displacement on the list of house seekers from now on? We can't explain it this way anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes rightly points out that the large influx of refugees also leads to additional pressure on the housing market. In places where the housing market is tight, it leads to even more tension on the offer of social housing. That is why we also debated the measures to be taken in this Chamber about a week ago. That is also why I sat down last week with Aedes and the Association of Dutch Municipalities to talk about these measures. That consultation was in a good mood. There we have agreed to work out a number of measures and to get back together in two weeks, because the precise measures often require an impact. That does not mean, as Mr Ronnes suggests, that in the meantime there is a standstill, because the problem is indeed urgent. That is why, last week, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers, which grants the first reception, announced that the municipal self-care scheme would be opened up. This means that people with status are in a position to be relocated, for example in the form of care for individuals, but also in the form of temporary accommodation. This is precisely in line with the wish that was expressed in the Chamber during last week's debate. There is no question at all of sitting still, but of taking measures where possible. With Aedes I have indeed discussed a number of possible obstacles. As Mr Ronnes knows, the Housing Act has just been amended with room-wide support, on the basis of good reasons, because much had gone wrong. It may be that this could be on a component right now. They're looking at this. Mr Ronnes spoke to my surprise about an immediate stop on the sale of rental houses. This is something that has been discussed extensively here with the Chamber. I thought that the CDA too was always of the opinion that this is now typically something to be decided on in local agreements. It may be wise, for example, to sell more expensive rentals to invest the proceeds in cheaper rentals, because that is where the demand lies. It doesn't help to come up with a ban. One of the instructive points of last week's General Reviews was that some parties had submitted a counter-budget. It's always a good thing for them. I believe that the Christian Union has also made money available for this purpose. The CDA doesn't do this, and it's okay. Mr Ronnes and I have been in full agreement since last week when it comes to finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	I respond briefly to the issue of financial support, because that is what I am being attacked on. I think it was a fellow minister of the Minister who showed last weekend that extra money was available for the refugee problem. Perhaps it would be a good thing for the Minister to sit down with the Minister of Finance in this matter to see if this can provide a solution. In addition, we have indeed had a wide-ranging discussion about the policy that is now in place. We see the need for emergency measures. We need an emergency response to the urgency that has arisen. As far as we're concerned, we shouldn't sit still. I note that the Minister is not sitting still, but I'm going to have a tooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	I would like to thank Mr Ronnes for the last remark that we both note that there is no idleness and that there is also urgency. On this subject, finding money, as always, is a matter of scraping and making choices in times of scarcity. Neither the Minister of Finance nor Mr Ronnes nor I have a large bag of extra money at our disposal. This is why I am talking to the Chamber, to Aedes and to the VNG about how we can better deal with existing resources. It was Mr Ronnes himself who rightly asked in the debate a week ago whether we could not house more people in one house. The platform welcomes home, which shares and expands knowledge on this subject, has published an information sheet to help municipalities and housing corporations. This clearly shows that there are generally no regulatory barriers. There is also no standard of two status holders per home, it may be more. It is precisely with this kind of solution that we, without having large pots of extra money available, can ensure that people are housed quickly and that the pressure on the housing market is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	I note that the Minister agrees with me that such an answer does not have to be left out until 1 November, but that these are actions which can be widely communicated with immediate effect to all those involved in the housing of, among other things, the status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	We also agree on that. For both the self-care arrangement opened last week and for the information about housing people in municipalities, the municipal self-care arrangement, we did not wait until the letter of 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	There is one major obstacle to solving the ever-growing housing shortage in the Netherlands, and that is this minister. He should build houses, block by block. However, he raises a tax, saddles municipalities with the growing housing shortage and now has municipalities house additional status holders. Will the Minister of Housing take responsibility and give corporations the means to build and stop selling ten thousand social housing? The latter has not yet happened and the Minister can stop it. No, Mr. President, the Minister should do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	In the Netherlands, the Minister for Housing does not build. That's never really been the case. During the reconstruction period there was a central planning. Luckily, we put it behind us. Corporates or private individuals build. Corporations are actually building; Mrs Karabulut knows the reports on this. Thousands of homes have been built over the past year. The plan is for thousands of social housing to be built. The landlord levy, against which Mrs Karabulut is so eager to act, has not stood in the way of this. The sale of rental houses is really a local consideration. I was in Tilburg yesterday, where the consideration is also made locally that there is a need for cheap social housing. For this reason, more expensive social housing is being sold in Tilburg and the proceeds are being invested in cheaper housing because there is demand there. This not only plays in Tilburg, but also in many other places in the country. It is precisely this customization that is made impossible when, as Mrs Karabulut suggests, you would impose a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	I want to correct something, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	You can make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	The Minister says something that isn't true. A number of municipalities where these properties are sold do not want them to be sold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	I am sure you will discuss this again with the Minister at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	Putting several asylum seekers in one house is not a solution. Building more rentals is not a solution. What needs to be done is that the borders close and that the priority system for asylum seekers for a social home should stop. So many people in the Netherlands want borders to be closed and asylum seekers not to be given priority. Then how can it be that if I have a motion to stop that priority arrangement, so many large parties, except for the PVV after all the parties in this Chamber, including SP, PvdA and VVD, are opposed to stopping that priority arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	Is that a question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yes. I ask the Minister how it is possible that if the Netherlands does not want to accommodate so many asylum seekers, the government will continue to distribute free homes, which creates a huge draining effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Madlener called for the borders to be closed and no houses to be allocated. The Netherlands has signed the Refugee Convention. That means that when people are persecuted or come out of a war situation, they get protection here, at least for the duration of the war. This also means that they will be given a roof over their heads during that period. In municipalities with housing regulations people with refugee status belong to the groups with priority. If that were not the case, people would have to be housed endlessly in asylum-seekers' centres. The cost of this is even higher. Moreover, it is not humanly attractive. These are the reasons why it has been chosen to allow people from the large asylum seekers' centres to flow out in this way. We do say: let us absorb large influx as much as possible through temporary construction and flexible housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u17	13,000 status holders live in the asylum seekers' centres, which we should actually give a place to live. At the same time, the waiting lists for the Dutch house seekers are also huge. I assume that the Minister has discussed with Aedes to add additional housing to the stock, otherwise we will get a displacement because the number of status holders will increase so that the Dutch house seekers are no longer covered. My first question is: is it about additional living space and can it be about temporary additions to the stock, for example for the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u19	I just wanted to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u20	Very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u21	Is the measures envisaged involve the possibility for corporations to manage other budgets and is it being considered to invest reception funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr De Vries asks whether there has been talk of an increase in stocks. That was, of course, discussed in the form of temporary, flexible living space. As I have already shared with the Chamber, the structural demand for social housing does not show a significant increase. It is different from place to place, but it is certainly not the case nationally. This is recognised, also by municipalities and housing corporations. This is why the task lies mainly in the quick addition of flexible living space. We are indeed looking at, for example, the scheme that does not allow housing corporations to manage for others. This has been deliberately put into the Housing Act, because we do not want to go back to a situation where the risks lie with the housing corporation, i.e. with the tenants, and the benefits with a private individual. This is typically one of the things that have been and are being worked out. If that pinches, I'm sure I'll be open to adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u23	Another question about the discussions the Minister had with the housing corporations and the VNG. A motion has indeed been adopted by the Chamber and is being discussed by the Minister. Have the subjects included in the motion also been discussed: the holding of subsidies, when host families or individuals receive asylum seekers, reduction of benefits and other obstacles? When will the Chamber hear about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u24	The issues raised by Mr Voordwind in last week's discussions were also discussed. Some of them are regulated by the self-care scheme, which is ideally suited to the care of individuals. If you are entitled to a benefit, there is a lot of tailor-made work possible. I am willing to send the information sheet of the Platform Welcome Home that is about this, also to the Housing Committee. This gives a proper overview of the cases where there are or are not consequences. That's not so bad, but that illustrates how important it is to communicate clearly about what can or can't be done. This also raises the question of whether it is necessary to take additional measures. I would ask for a moment, until 1 November at the latest, as I have agreed with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u25	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u26	You were there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have an AO on housing corporations next week, but I think that runs along with the General Financial Reviews. That is why I would like to put a question on this subject, in anticipation of the discussion of the Housing and National Service budget. If we have to reserve a lot of properties for status holders, is that at odds with the appropriate allocation that housing corporations have to meet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u28	A status holder will generally have a benefit at least initially and therefore a low income and will therefore benefit from appropriate allocation. That means that the offer of low-rent housing is larger, so I don't see any tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u29	I am pleased that the Minister has quickly entered into consultation with the VNG and Aedes on how short-term housing can be realised for this group of people. It is also a good thing that temporary homes are being used. I also miss what the Minister is going to do about the vacancy. I believe that vacant office buildings, particularly vacant state offices, can also be used for housing refugees. Can the cabinet take a look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u30	Sure. Mrs Voortman's question is very relevant. Offices of the National Real Estate Company and other empty buildings, such as barracks and former prisons, are currently being deployed. Probably Mrs Voortman has heard of making a dome prison available at the COA, just like the former officer's station in Weert; both buildings come from the stock of the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. For buildings that COA cannot deploy, we are indeed looking at that second option; the conversion for temporary housing. This is also typical of the package I am discussing with Aedes and VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
