ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u1	We need the eighth speaker, Mrs Koser Kaya of D66, with 8 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. 853,000 ducks, 431,000 goats, 794,000 turkeys, 46,570,000 laying hens, 47,020,000 chickens for slaughter, 170,000 horses and ponies, 1,572,000 dairy cows, 1,322,000 other dairy cattle, 921,000 calves, 253,000 other meat and pasture cattle, 959,000 sheep, 12,238,000 pigs. That's 113 million farm animals in the Netherlands. In addition, 69 million kilos of fish are landed annually in Dutch ports. Those numbers call for reflection. How do we strike a balance between agriculture and nature, between production and animal welfare, and between intensification and public health? For that reason, today I present the D66 food vision. In doing so, we want ecological food production based on three principles: sustainability, quality and public health. In this respect, I would like to offer a copy to both the Secretary of State and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u4	I would like to highlight a few issues: an environmentally neutral agriculture, increasing knowledge about food, making subsidy flows more transparent, the supervision by NVWA, the situation in the Caribbean Netherlands, and nature and fisheries. I'll start with the environment. The limits of environmental taxation by agriculture and of what society considers acceptable are coming into sight. One step at a time, we take action. But what's the dot on the horizon? As far as I am concerned, this is an environmentally neutral agriculture. In terms of energy, climate, water, biodiversity, depletion and erosion of soil, soil must yield as much as it costs. Does the Secretary of State take on that challenge with me? The knowledge of our food can be much better. Parents and education have a major role to play in this, but they also have producers. Last year, D66 and the Scientific Council for Government Policy argued for a single label: a double traffic light system, with both sustainability criteria and health criteria. After a year of thinking, the then Secretary of State decided not to do anything with it. Why has it not been possible to create support for a single system? I hope the new Secretary of State will go through with it and get on with it. In the end, a conscious consumer can also make the right choice. That's what it's all about. I come to the point of 'invisible subsidies'. This is also a challenge: to understand the use of agricultural subsidies. The government is gathering plenty of information. Applicants for European grants receive many checks. However, on a website like RVO.nl there are at most a few sentences for explanation. Where are the application details? Where can I see the results? The grants for sustainable innovation and production have been awarded: stakeholders and local residents want to know. We, too, must be able to control this. Is the money well spent? What are the results of this money? This is how we make this transparent. It filters abuse and leads from distrust to trust. That's good for everyone. Grants are better spent and control burdens are reduced. They're already working with this in development cooperation. Many projects are digitally unlocked. Applications and accountability data are public and well searchable. I therefore have three requests to the Secretary of State. Firstly, build a website on which all Dutch agricultural subsidies can be found, with applications and accountability data. The objectives to be achieved must therefore also be taken into account. Secondly, make this accessible. Thirdly, regulate this also at European level. At European level, it is also necessary to ensure that the competition rules are adapted not only to price but also to sustainability criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u5	I have a question. There are special rules for these subsidies. Mrs Koser Kaya focuses entirely on agriculture. Doesn't she think that should actually apply to all subsidies? Why should this be dealt with specifically for agriculture? I think you'd better do that policy-wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u6	The EU is, I believe, providing 373 billion in grants. We get 5 billion of that. That's about 700 million on an annual basis. But we don't know exactly what that money is spent on. I would like this transparency, precisely to ensure that we know what the money is being spent on, that innovation and sustainability are being driven forward, that we can also justify it to the public and that we can take control properly. If Mr Houwers makes a proposal for transparency in other areas, I will listen with interest. We are, of course, open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u7	It is not so much a proposal on my part as it is the fact that Mrs Koser Kaya is focusing it entirely on agriculture. She almost answers my question at the end of her reply, but perhaps she can give an even more concrete answer. Does she think that all subsidies provided by the public authorities should always be made clear as to the purpose and ultimately the result of investigations and grants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u8	You have to answer for what you do with subsidies. The same applies to other subsidies. If Mr Houwers makes a proposal to make it more transparent, I will be happy to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u9	Apart from the fact that, of course, we have to go to a completely different food policy, I agree with many of Mrs Koser Kaya's comments in this area, and I also think that we should do justice to all those alarming reports which indicate that we should use less meat and dairy. Does Mrs. Koser Kaya agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u10	Personally, I am happy to do so, but it remains an individual choice. If we can inform and make people more aware, in all sections of the population, then I think that we do not have to make up rules for that but that people will already do so. We are already seeing a movement in that direction, especially young people. I refer to initiatives by cafes and eateries and all kinds of other initiatives which show that awareness is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u11	Sure, only a quarter of the Dutch eat meat every day. So it's going the right way. However, we are a huge meat producing country and we also see that it is not yet enough to make a lasting impact. D66 has also always supported tax differentiation between high-emission cars and low-emission cars. If you now know that meat is the most environmentally damaging part of your food package, it seems logical to me that you should also apply a tax discouragement policy, for example by means of excise duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u12	The ecological balance is so incredibly important. If we want to produce a clean nature and sustainable and healthy food for our children's future, we must now make this green change. Of course, I would like to talk to Mrs Thieme about exactly how the instruments should be used in the tax field, but I think that we should now make a much more substantial effort in ways of making them more sustainable and innovative, in order to ensure that we achieve this ecological balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u13	I am delighted to hear Mrs Koser Kaya's story on sustainable food supply. I looked very quickly at the beautiful booklet that has been distributed and found the following passage: the world trade system and bilateral trade agreements support the transition to sustainable food production in Europe. I assume that this is meant as a expressed wish, a policy starting point, and not as a fact. I would like to hear from Mrs Koser Kaya how she sees this in the light of the TTIP negotiations and the fear that by doing so, the international trade agreements might be extremely frustrating for the sustainability criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u14	We have approached this very carefully in all the debates. In those debates, my colleagues have previously indicated that you need to take a good look at this and I do not have much to add at the moment. However, I would like to stress that we see competition on prices and that the criteria for sustainability and innovation are still very little taken into account. I would like to do more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u15	Is it right to say otherwise that I do not understand why Mrs Koser Kaya agrees with me that in international negotiations on trade agreements you should be very firm and clear that there should be no restrictive criteria that stand in the way of our sustainability policy? If she thinks so, she should want to share that knowledge with her MEPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u16	Now my colleague Grashoff is bringing together various things. I would now like to focus on ensuring that not only price competition, but also sustainability and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u17	I once Google on the directions of D66. Then I came across: rely on people's own strength and sustainable society, but think and trade internationally; reward achievements. I listened this morning to Mrs Koser Kaya's interruptions. I have listened to her input so far and I read the food note, which places six conditions on food production. How does Mrs Koser Kaya reconcile the support for all these motions, with all kinds of prohibitions and commandments, with the directions of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u18	Firstly, I would say to Mrs Lodder that during her speech my interruptions focused on the fact that her reasoning is so inconsistent. If you want to produce more and cheaply, then there is a price tag, also in the ecological sense. If you don't make sure this is in balance, you'll transfer the price tag to future generations. In my view, I am very clear about that. You need to sustain and innovate. I am not talking about more or less. What matters to me is that whatever you do, you make sure that it's neutral for the environment, so it's ecological. However, I also say that we cannot compete on a bulk basis with the BRIC countries, Brazil, Russia, India and China. We must therefore have cleaner, faster and better production. That's what my vision is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u19	That still doesn't rhyme with the basics, the directions of D66. My story was very clear: look at all the examples we have in Dutch agriculture and horticulture. These are all examples of how Dutch agriculture produces sustainably. The methane emissions of the Dutch cow are significantly lower than those of the cows in the countries around us. Mrs Koser Kaya can deny that, but that is a fact; that has been investigated and it is a fact. I note that it is with D66: forward now. At D66, however, entrepreneurs are falling far behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u20	Mrs. Lodder's whole vision was about now. If you only look at it now, you do not see the developments that are going to take place over the next twenty years, including in the areas of food, internationalisation and food shortages. So now you must also be aware of the future. If Mrs Lodder stays with "everything is okay now, so we don't need anything anymore," then she can't make that move anymore and then we as the Netherlands lose the position we do have at the moment. That position does not mean that we do not have to do anything on the ecological side. On the contrary, you can only maintain that position if you also take the ecological side. I can't hear the VVD say that. The bill is therefore passed on to future generations. I will continue with Caribbean Netherlands, small islands with a lot of potential. They are also domestic municipalities. The Secretary of State is therefore also responsible for them. What's the problem? There's hardly any food growing. Almost everything is imported. That makes it unnecessarily expensive. Can the Secretary of State, together with the islands, launch a pilot project to exchange knowledge and promote innovation so that food can be grown more and more there? Then I come to the supervision by the NVWA, from the Caribbean back to Europe, which today is fast and easy and sometimes too flexible. For example, supermarkets were found to sell American soft drinks with a prohibited substance in them. I asked the Secretary of State how. The answer was: it is not allowed, but we do not maintain. He'll have to explain that to me. Either this substance is dangerous and then you maintain it, or it's not that bad, and then you allow it. What is it? This also applies to the fixing of old fish with hydrogen peroxide. Only next year will there be enforcement. Why? Then there is the Birds and Habitats Directives. Last week, nine countries sent a letter to Commissioner Vella calling: leave the directive intact, focus all energy on better implementation. I couldn't agree more. Why wasn't the signature of the predecessor of this Secretary of State signed on it? Finally, the Wadden region. A work visit to Texel taught me that time is running out. The ecosystem is under pressure and the fish stocks remain dramatically poor. The current policy is not enough. So I call on the Secretary of State to be wiser with the Wadden Sea. That is why I have some questions and suggestions. I'll start with the management of the Wadden region. In 2013, the Court of Auditors was the emergency clock: nature and landscape are under pressure, there is bureaucracy, the Wadden Fund is being used inefficiently, there is a lack of coordination and control, and there are more than a dozen administrators. Have all steps been taken to reduce the number of managers or to designate an overarching authority with coordinating powers? Can the Secretary of State answer that? The Fisheries Act is not enough. Fishing licences are issued on the basis of the Fisheries Act, but the law is silent about taking the environmental impact into account when issuing permits. In fact, we should include that aspect in the law. Can the Secretary of State investigate what benefits that would bring? There is also a need to reduce shrimp fishing, because with their towed nets shrimp fishermen are causing serious damage. Compliance with a covenant to reduce fishing pressure is difficult. The sector is large and diverse and everyone is waiting for each other's first step. Can the Secretary of State declare this covenant binding and state that no new permits will be issued? Sand supplementation is my fourth point. Every year, 18 million tubs of sand are extracted. It is sprayed in the coastal zone, with great consequences for the fish stock. When it is restored after two or three years, a new round almost immediately follows. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate whether watering sand not every four but every six to eight years can help the fish stocks? Or that in vulnerable periods, such as the growing-up season, no interventions are being made? I'm rounding up. This Secretary of State's internship is over, but I know from him that he's already got his mind on the matter. I trust that he will answer our questions and also do justice to our input. I wish this Secretary of State success for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u21	I tried to read the play. Of course, I have not read it in full; Mrs Koser Kaya will understand that. But there's some great lyrics in there. D66 argues, for example, that the Competition Act should be examined in the context of agreements on the sustainability of the food chain. That's what the D66 Group really wants to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u22	There was uncertainty about the competition rules. That's what we saw with the Chicken of Tomorrow. For that reason, a line has been crossed through. If you want competition rules to comply with the food chain from farmer to consumer, you will have to take into account how food is produced, i.e. sustainability requirements. It is also a question of whether innovation has taken place in this area, so that cooperation can get under way. This is not an ordinary sector either, because it has to do with our food, our environment, our well-being and the environment. This should be taken into account in the competition rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u23	I welcome that, because in a general consultation on competition, Mr Verhoeven said: it is very logical that the regulator who has the task of looking at competition does not look at sustainability, but at the interests of companies and at competition. That was a while ago. There are also developments in our positions. Sometimes you have a difference between the economics spokesperson and the agricultural spokesperson, but given that this is an issue of the D66 Group, I assume that this is the new position of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u24	There is no pin between Mr Verhoeven and me to get, I tell you immediately. But he talks about entrepreneurs working on all kinds of things. We are talking about entrepreneurs who are also directly concerned with food supply, the environment and well-being. That's where the nuance difference lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u25	I would also like to congratulate the D66 Group on this issue. Your predecessor, Mr Schouw, has announced him a few times, but you are actually taking him to the Chamber. Of course, I have not read everything either, but I have a question about the common agricultural policy. Will D66 continue to make available the money that is currently available for this purpose for agricultural policy? You are talking about transition to sustainability, quality and health, and you want to reduce income support, but will the total amount remain available for the common agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u26	We have just had an interesting debate on this. We have also seen the OECD report. That was true for the Netherlands, but I would also like subsidies to be used for the sake of sustainability and innovation for European agricultural policy. This has not been included in the common agricultural policy in so many words, and I want this to happen. As a result, we are talking about whether it should be more or less. First of all, I am concerned about transparency. We must indicate what we want to do with this money, not only in the Netherlands, but in Europe, precisely for the reasons I have just indicated. We cannot transfer the bill to future generations. We will now have to work on cleaner agriculture. It is about food supplies in the world, but it is also about maintaining the ecological balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u27	I conclude from this that D66 does not want to interfere with the money from Europe that is now available for the common agricultural policy. This is certainly an improvement on what your group chairman said recently in Buitenhof, namely that he wanted to put the total amount for the European common agricultural policy into the fight against terrorism. At least that's what he said. During the European elections, your colleague Sophie in 't Veld said that it should no longer go to farmers, but to the knowledge-based economy, and that it should at least be halved. I am absolutely pleased with the position of the D66 Group that the amount available remains valid for agriculture and horticulture in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u28	I understand the role of Mr Geurts. Of course, he also wants to make a political issue. Big steps, soon at home, but it's not that simple. I have just indicated that, according to the document on food policy that we have just presented and that colleagues have also been given, we want first to innovate food policy transparently and also to improve the ecological design. If less money can be used for that, that's fine, but I want to hear it first. Mr. President, I was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u29	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the new Secretary of State for the wonderful post he has received. It is not just a portfolio, but that of agriculture, nature and fishing. I would like to take back to the words of Francis of Assisi, who praises God for sister earth, who feeds and guides us and produces various fruits with colorful flowers and herbs. The concern for the earth is, of course, a common responsibility, but I think that the Secretary of State has a particular responsibility in this regard. I would like to say to him: take good care of it! There are a lot of challenges. How do we balance our food supply with care for creation? Agriculture and nature are not meant to be opposite each other, but they need each other. Both, to speak with the words of Francis, are fruits of creation. Just the Netherlands, where city, nature and agriculture are so close together, can become even more guide country. I look forward to the Secretary of State's view on the future of the agricultural sector and the nature policy in our country. I also ask him where his passion lies. In the first period of his reply, he may want to give a hint of the veil. I often get the question where my passion for Dutch agriculture comes from. Maybe it's a little bit of my roots in the Frisian countryside, but more importantly, food was God's first gift to people. Our food is abundant, but of course it is not. People seem to forget that sometimes. Our food supply is at the mercy of an economic model in which, unfortunately, the lowest price is leading. This is at the expense of the environment, animal welfare and not least of the farmers themselves, who are barely getting a fair price for the products they supply. I ask the Secretary of State what future young farmers will have in our country. Quite specifically, when will they be able to use the young farmers' scheme again? That stagnates, I understand. Last week I spoke to a group of young farmers, mostly dairy farmers. They are anxiously waiting for clarity about phosphate rights and the requirements of ground-boundness. What's the Secretary of State's march route? Is he prepared to take a first step and clarify the reference year 2014 and the reference date 2 July 2015? What room does the Secretary of State see for pig farmers to develop new earning models? The crises in pig farming and dairy farming, but certainly also in laying poultry farming, show that sustainability and new earning models are absolutely necessary. There needs to be much more scope for initiatives such as the Sustainable Pork Recipe. The Consumer & Market Authority should be an authority for people, the environment and the market that not only looks at economic values. Environmental sustainability, health and robustness of the food network must also be addressed. Farmers simply need to be given a fair price for their products and extra environmental or animal welfare efforts must be rewarded. I ask the Secretary of State about the implementation of my adopted motion on Initiative Tierwohl. Sustainability and regionalisation of food production do not go hand in hand with extensive liberalisation of agricultural trade between the EU and the US. TTIP makes the price the only driving force behind production and puts further pressure on the environment and animal welfare, as well as the earning model for farmers. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that agriculture should be excluded from TTIP if we really want to continue on the path of sustainability? We have waited a long time for the cabinet response to the WRR's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u30	Just out of curiosity, one more question about the previous point. I very much share Mrs Dik's concerns about TTIP and its implications for European agriculture. But can she explain why the Christian Union voted in favour of the association agreement with Ukraine? This is detrimental to agriculture, because batteries from Ukraine can be placed on the Dutch market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u31	I cannot go into that in detail at the moment, because the spokesmanship lies with a colleague of mine. However, I have voted in favour of all the motions tabled by the Animal Party in favour of stopping imports of eggs from Ukraine. The Christian Union has never been opposed to trade agreements, but we think our food supply is different from a refrigerator, to give you an example. I support the Animal Party in its commitment to halting the import of eggs from Ukraine at the moment the most important issue of this kind. I see that our own entrepreneurs in Barneveld and other areas are really affected by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u32	My follow-up question is then about TTIP, because that was what Mrs Dik was talking about. Is it of such a decisive importance to the Christian Union that agriculture is kept out of TTIP that, if not, the Christian Union believes TTIP should not continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u33	My plea at the moment is clear: I really want agriculture out of TTIP. As I said, the Christian Union is not against trade agreements, but our food supply is so valuable that we want it out of the trade agreement. I will first see how far we can get with the debate in the Chamber, the position of the Secretary of State and European decision-making. Then I will discuss with my group how we will assess TTIP, if it does not happen what we want. I cannot make that clear now, but I know that it is very important for us. I was talking about the cabinet response to the WRR report. The reaction had to become a real food vision, but it was a list of actions that have all been started. I would like to help the Secretary of State to make points from the food vision more concrete. For example, we had the objective of reducing food waste by 20%. We're not gonna make it. Europe is going for 50% reduction in 2030. But if the Secretary of State wants to break a trend, what is the new target for 2020 on which we can pay him? For it remains indigestible that we throw away 4.5 billion in food every year, while 450,000 people in our country are regularly hungry and food banks are unable to cope with growing demand. The Christian Union is keen to see a task force on food surpluses and food banks. This task force with experts from industry, food banks and Wageningen UR should ensure that companies from all over the food chain are prepared to provide structural additional food surpluses to the food banks. I will table an amendment to this effect. This theme is also reflected in the WhatsApp action that I organised for a week between the Day of Sustainability and the World Food Day. Consumers are keen to take part in the debate on how to prevent food waste: from the reuse of excess food to the adaptation of shelf life data and helping food banks. I'll be happy to give the Secretary of State an overview of what we've brought in in one week. I would also like to remind him of his predecessor's commitment to consult with the Food Centre on the possibilities of setting up a hotline where consumers can get their tips off against food waste. Is there anything he can say about this? The WRR report also mentions the protein transition. The development of alternative protein sources is now frustrated by the European Novel Food Regulation. As a result, products that have been in the Dutch supermarket for some time now have to go through a complex and costly application procedure. How will the Secretary of State often help small producers to comply with the new legislation? I'm joining the NVWA. Last Monday we received a letter that worries me a lot. It is now two years since the cabinet came up with a plan of action for the NVWA. However, it seems that few of the good ambitions have yet to come. The proposed savings have not been realised and the NVWA is in a bad financial situation. But instead of an extra financial boost, the Secretary of State opts for the further undressing of the NVWA. This destroys all efforts. It is unacceptable for my group to invest in street safety but not in food safety. Waiting for the spring note is too late. Is the Secretary of State ready to take steps now? Like last year, there is again a fuss about financing green education and, like last year, the initiative for a solution has to come from the Chamber. In order to prevent this from becoming an annual discussion, my group, together with a number of other parties, has put forward the proposal to place green education at OCW. The aocs face a cut in the basic cost of no less than 15%. The Secretary of State simply says that one has to cut the supply of education. But how well thought out is this cut in the coalition agreement? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he's prepared to meet the aocs. I have also tabled an amendment to reverse the cuts in the aocs. Today it appeared that there are concerns about the position of the University of Wageningen when transferred to OCW. Student numbers have been in the elevator over the past few years, but the agreed capping has made funding more and more difficult. My group wants Wageningen to be treated the same as other universities. A transfer to OCW helps. For my group, however, the golden triangle of government, education and entrepreneurs cannot be called into question. This was also clearly stated in the motion. This has to be secured. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's ideas on this. I'm here on nature policy. Several reports show that the improvement of biodiversity is stagnating. My group wants agricultural nature management to contribute 'new style' to achieving the international nature goals. At the moment, however, the Secretary of State has absolutely no idea of the ecological effectiveness of the applications submitted in the meantime, while the ineffectiveness of agricultural nature management was precisely the reason for taking the system on board. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have an ex ante test carried out, taking into account the coherence with greening of the CAP and the nature policy of other land managers? I also ask him about the state of play regarding the implementation of the Jacobi/Dik-Faber motion on the use of 2015 as a transitional year for alignment with the provinces on complementarity between the first and second pillars. Another motion by myself and Mr Jacobi was adopted in connection with the CAP debate at the time. It was about the bird fields. A coalition of Vogelbescherming Nederland, the Louis Bolk Institute and the Working Group Grauwe Kiekendief are now working on this. This has also been implemented in policy. I would very much like to invite the Secretary of State to join me in the field, to go on a work visit and under the umbrella of singing field lionlarks I see it all in front of me to see how successful the birds are. The management of sheep makes an important contribution to nature management in heathlands and, of course, to cultural history. There is a great deal of concern among traditional sheep shepherds about how the sector operates through compulsory public procurement. Alterra also wrote a report on this. Can the Secretary of State send this report to the Chamber with a response? What is he going to do with the provinces to really solve the problems of the traditional shepherds? I still have a small but not insignificant point. I am concerned about the Stichting Rare Petraces (SZH). An evaluation of the rare pet variety scheme has been carried out for the summer. This report states that the SZH has entered a dangerously negative spiral during the past period that threatens its continuity. This while the evaluation shows that the SZH clearly has an added value for holders of rare pet breeds in the field of professionalisation and promotion. In recent years, however, the SZH has been cut considerably. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send the evaluation to the Chamber and bring the subsidy scheme back to two tonnes? I would also like to make a brief comment on fisheries. In a month's time the Dutch cutters will have to comply with the landing obligation, but the fishermen do not yet know what they are up to. There is at last a European Repartie Act, but it leaves the elaboration of the procedures to the Member States. According to IMARES, the management structure is still completely unclear. Are all Member States going to maintain the same way? I don't understand why the Secretary of State hasn't answered so many of the sector's questions yet. Surely you cannot ask companies to start working on the new method on 1 January? There would be exceptions for fish with high survival rates. This is very important for the Dutch fisheries sector. But when is it clear what is meant by "high survival"? I'm rounding up. I conclude with words from a prayer of Pope Francis, from Laudato si: "Learn to discover the value of all things, to look with amazement and to acknowledge that we are deeply connected with all creatures on our way to your infinite light."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u34	I think it is very nice that these words are spoken, but then the Christian Union must also deliver them in the Chamber. There has also been talk of small breeds and all of them. The animal police must watch over the woe and misery of animals, creatures that were there before man. Whether you believe in evolution or in the creation story, the animals were there before. The Christian Union is helping to kill the animal police. I don't understand. That was the corps that was to watch over the animals, who have no voice and are defenseless. I can't understand why Mrs. Dik uses those words while killing the animal police. I can't combine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u35	In my opinion, the regular training and tasks of the police also focus on animal neglect. The Christian Union does not consider it necessary to force a separate police force to do so. So we disagree on that. With regard to the concern for the creatures, I would like to refer to all the motions that we have tabled in the Chamber. We have also supported some of the PVV's motions on this point. It is a pity that we will not agree on the issue of animal police, but let us work together, where possible, in the care of creation and creatures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u36	Sure. Thank you for that, too. If the Christian Union supports that, then I thank the Christian Union for that, but this is what we are talking about. Animal police have been active for a few years. Thousands and thousands of animals have been seized. An animal has never been impounded anywhere in the world. Still, the animal police are getting killed. Animal police are successful. One in four is successful. It's purely a party politics game. The task holders do not even have the time to run after the 144 notifications, let alone go to a slaughterhouse preventively, go after poachers or check on cattle transports. Those people don't have time for that. The NVWA doesn't have the time, either, with all these food scandals. I agree that Mrs Dik is putting pressure on the NVWA, but please make sure the animal police come back full-time. We can't just leave those animals to their fate, can we? They have no one to stand up for them. The animal police were there, but now no one's here. The regular police, the National Police, does nothing for animals. Nothing. Zero. When Madame talks about the creatures of God, I expect her to stand up for the creatures who do not have a voice, apart from Mrs Thieme and me, perhaps, but for the rest of no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u37	I am standing here to give the animals and nature a voice. I said what I wanted to say about that animal police point. I believe that action is indeed being taken, that the police do pay attention to this in training and in working methods. I also read in the newspapers that there are actions, that animals are being taken away. Where animal cruelty is involved, there are often other issues. But the police are focused on it and have it in their sights. Let's look at the other point, the NVWA, where we can hang out together. The NVWA needs to be put much better on the map. She needs to be the authority she once was. Unfortunately, this isn't her. We're gonna work on that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u38	Mr. Chairman. As colleagues, you're sitting in the benches and suddenly you're talking to a new Secretary of State for Agriculture and Nature. I would like to congratulate him on this beautiful role. I hope and expect good cooperation. I also wish the Secretary of State much strength, because, on the basis of today's debate, I have to say that he no longer really has a coalition on nature and agriculture. I saw the stories of the PvdA and the VVD almost opposite each other. That won't make it any easier for the Secretary of State. With our nature things are moderate to bad. There are also bright spots. So it seems that the otter is going to get another modest spot in the Netherlands. That is an important step forward. Furthermore we wait a bit for the wolf, but we haven't heard much of that lately. Maybe he'll come after all. All in all, we have been able to bend the enormous decline of nature somewhat and to stop somewhat. That's not enough. Where we were working for a long time to connect the poor natural areas in the Netherlands and to make a network, under the leadership of our nature destroyers first-class CDA house, the former duo Koopmans and Bleker, was brutally put to an end. An achievement of magnitude was that, and we haven't really gotten that hit yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u39	Mr President, on a point of order. I didn't think it was customary in this house to treat people who can't defend themselves in this way. I think you should have said that as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u40	You have not yet spoken, Mr Grashoff. It concerns members of the government and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u41	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Here, names of predecessors of mine were literally mentioned. I just don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u42	I disagree. I don't think we're calling people from outside this room. We are talking here in the Chamber about those responsible for the administration of the CDA, who, at the time, did a great deal of damage to our nature policy. I think that should just be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u43	My predecessors, where are they in this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u44	Mr Geurts, you made your point very clear. It is recorded in the Acts as a personal fact. You'll find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u45	Moreover, I very much appreciate Mr Geurts' standing up for his fellow party members. This is also part of this debate. In that sense, I am also talking to Mr Geurts. Actually, we barely recovered from that blow. Although we have an acceptable and usable Nature Act, apart from the soap opera about hunting, with the creation of the Dutch Nature Network it does not really want to succeed. Could the Secretary of State once give us one clear map showing what is currently the appropriate nature, what additional natural areas we have realized in recent years and what we are going to achieve in the coming years? Those latter areas may be indicated very lightly green on the map and with a year when they are there. Then perhaps we will get some grip on this extremely untransparent discussion. Yes, there is decentralised to the provinces when it comes to actually creating the network. No, there is still an overall responsibility at a rich level for the creation of the nature network. There's no other way. Otherwise, it would not be a network for the whole of the Netherlands. 680,000 hectares were already a limited nature network, but at least let the Secretary of State show that the 680,000 hectares will be there and when they will be there. At the same time, a recommendation was made by Mr Van Vollenhoven. He has written a nice report at the request of the predecessor of this Secretary of State, in which he makes some nice recommendations. One of them was very special to me: point out those 64 areas outside Natura 2000 which used to be covered by the old Nature Protection Act. Mr Van Vollenhoven suggests that there is a need for a change in the law, but we do not need that change in the law at all. Article 2.11 of the law simply states that the Minister can designate these areas as areas of particular national interest. By the way, that law is still to be published in the Official Journal, which is still with the Upper House. When I see the total of the reports on the state of nature, I think that the criteria set out in that article of the law provide ample basis for that indication. I would like the Secretary of State to go into that and help me by saying: yes, I am going to consider it; I think it would be a good idea to point it out. That would have solved a big problem. 50% of the entire territory in the Netherlands is still agricultural and that is a good thing. I'm the last one to say that we should all convert that into nature reserve. In fact, I do not even want to do that to a large extent, but only to a limited extent. However, this does not mean that agricultural areas should not also have natural value. If you ask an ecologist to describe a common meadow area in the Netherlands, he will call it an ecological desert. There is one kind of grass, namely English rai grass. Soil life is nil and there are no meadow flowers and plants. Consequently, bees and other insects have nothing to do with it anymore. This in turn means that it has become an extremely bad environment for the meadow birds. That makes sense, because that's what you have in the food chain, in an ecological system. Things in it all depend on each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u46	I have just spoken to Mr Koopmans, the former chamberlain addressed by Mr Grashoff. Mr Koopmans asked me to convey that GroenLinks' criticism felt like balm to his soul. He thought it was very honorable that he was quoted. Mr Koopmans told me to pass that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u47	That's what the Acts say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u48	I know Mr Koopmans is so in his skin. He's a warrior man. He would like to be mentioned here again because of his special achievements. That's what I'm happy to do. Now I'm really off my game. The meadow area has become miserable for our meadow birds, because the chain is built in this way. So that chain is completely broken. If you also mow the place with large mowers before the young birds have hatched or before they can find a good one, the circle is round and we have lost the meadow birds. In fact, we can see that. That has been happening for several decades in a row. The population of the grutto has been halved since 1990 and the population of the field lark by over 60%. If you look at it in the longer term, it's much worse. Makes it look like about 90% have disappeared. I cannot support every figure up to the millimeter, but those figures do appear in reports. All this is because of our way of agriculture. In fact, we should stop this trend for the meadow birds and for the entire ecosystem that existed there, in the unique meadow landscape in the Netherlands, and still exists here and there. We should reverse this because of its unique value. The tone in the letter from the Secretary of State following the Grashoff/Leenders motion which we submitted before the summer recess and in which we ask for a plan of action is positive. We appreciate that very much. Moreover, we can see that there are means to this end, and the letter is considerably less sharp about.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The plan of action will come in the first half of 2016. Usually this means that it falls on the mat one day before the summer recess. So we are a year ahead of the plan of action. I ask the Secretary of State to make this urgent. To help him, yesterday I tabled an amendment, together with my colleague Mr Leenders of the Labour Party, which regulates the release of €500,000 per year over the next three years in order to protect grazing birds. I would add that this is not enough to solve the problem structurally, but it is a start. That start can also be a big incentive to get started at least throughout the 2016 season and not to wait first. We are thinking here of the design of some good pilots that can be further learned. There are many frontrunners in the Netherlands. We can learn a lot from them and pass on that knowledge. That too is innovation. But there's more to it. We are also thinking of the use of the funds earmarked for the crisis in dairy farming. The Secretary of State suggested this himself. These are once-in-a-lifetime resources that, logically, you will also have to use in one-off cases, please, effectively. In the press, a few ideas suddenly emerged. The status of this is not clear, but I would like to inform the Secretary of State that these ideas were not entirely convincing for the Green Left Group either. This may also apply to other groups. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? Can he indicate whether a substantial part of the 10 million is actually being used for grazing birds? Can the Secretary of State confirm that he's going to do this in a meaningful way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u49	That $10 million is part of a $30 million package. That money was intended to resolve the crisis in dairy farming. I have heard Mr Grashoff make a number of interruptions today, and I hear his speech now. I don't think GroenLinks has much with livestock farming. I therefore ask Mr Grashoff whether this is appropriate for resolving the crisis in dairy farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u50	That's a good question. I can tell Mrs Lodder that I have a lot with dairy farming. In fact, I still find dairy farming to be somewhat the white raven in animal farming. Especially when you compare dairy farming with pig farming and poultry farming, this is still an industry where I like to come and where I have been a lot. But dairy farms don't have to be cow factories. If these resources are used to combat the crisis, it is also a question of contributing to the transition of dairy farming: sustainable management and, as far as I am concerned, working on products such as pasture milk. After all, the consumer has more money to pay for this. In this way, the money can help with grazing bird management and improve the dairy farmer's business model. I think it would be ideal if we could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u51	That was a lot of words, with absolutely no answer to my question. We already know pasture milk, so there doesn't have to be any incentive for that. I'd say walk through the supermarket and see how much pasture milk there is. I note that these resources are not being used to resolve the crisis in livestock farming. I should like to ask Mr Grashoff and the Secretary of State if Europe will approve the use of these resources in these areas. I'd like a clasp-and-ready answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u52	The question of whether Europe approves or not, I must pass on to the Secretary of State. I sincerely hope so. I hope that Europe will not approve of simply giving the money to farmers thinking that they would have been helped. They will not be helped, because after this crisis there will be subsequent crises. We can continue to shift money, but it is a question of structural change towards sustainable dairy farming, which has prospects for the future and in which a product is produced with a higher market value. Not more bulk, but more quality and more innovation: I could almost repeat it to Mrs Koser Kaya. I'm moving on. If we want to move forward with the management of grazing birds, then it is essential that the resources available for the common agricultural policy are used effectively. That's where the big money is. This concerns both agricultural nature management in the second pillar and the greening part in the first pillar. There are critical reports at European level which state that the greening component is actually doing badly and is not effective, but the choice options within the European rules give the necessary policy flexibility to effectively and properly fill in the greening component. The options "sustainability certificate" and "collective implementation" include considerable regulatory flexibility. I challenge the Secretary of State to deal with the way in which this could be used more effectively, in order to broaden the management of grazing birds and a dairy farming that is becoming more sustainable and future-proof. The second pillar, agricultural nature management, has in the past been highly critical, namely that these resources have not been used effectively. From 1 January there is a new model with collectives. We are very much in favour of this in itself. At the same time, we are already getting a lot of signals from nature organisations that the provinces are not paying much attention to how these funds end up with these collectives and how they are spent. If this lax attitude is relevant to the provinces, I fear that in the new situation of the collectives the money for agricultural nature management will not be spent effectively. That's a huge missed opportunity. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this should be prevented and that the provinces should therefore be subject to prior scrutiny, so that they should carry out an ex ante evaluation in policy language? And does he also think that for pasture farmers there should be a strong emphasis on effective grazing bird management? Can the Secretary of State answer that? We may be able to assist the Secretary of State with a joint motion. Another point is management contracts. The wish is to close off the long-term, because farmers have an interest in long-term security of these funds. That is what we would like to give them if they were to manage grazing birds properly and wisely. However, this seems to run into some bureaucratic problems, because the EU is using a six-year period. I challenge the Secretary of State to do something about this with creative solutions. We often conclude a contract for a longer period without the financial security being exactly and according to the letter. I think it should be possible. The relationship between agriculture and nature is incredibly important. Grosso modo could be said to be the marginal profit we make with the best possible management of nature reserves for a large amount of money, as it were, evaporated by the effect of our agricultural policy. What we build on one side, we tear down on the other. In agriculture, we draw up complicated rules for nitrogen and phosphate, for example. It's about a sum of rules. I have already mentioned this in the debate with Mr Geurts. At the same time, we actually say: it's against the rocks. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that a structural change in livestock farming should aim to substantially reduce the number of animals? That can never happen from one moment to the next, but it should happen in such a way that you do not get to all the ceilings in the regulation. This may lead to less complicated, detailed and sensitive regulation. In this way, we would find, for example, a much simpler and more structural basis for regulation in agriculture. It offers certainty to farmers, but also guarantees that this sector does not grow every time a rule is lifted somewhere. For let's face it: much depended on the abolition of milk quotas. Mr President, I will take one more minute at the expense of my second term. Does the Secretary of State wish to comment on this more fundamental approach to ground-boundity? We are concerned about the genetic engineering crops. We are afraid that they are a threat to nature and ultimately biodiversity and that they are disrupting the natural balance. I ask the Secretary of State about the process surrounding the national balancing framework in relation to the expiry of the geographical restriction of application. We expected more from the government's response to the WRR report on food. We come to talk to each other about it in detail. It's kind of like two thoughts are being hacked into. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to comment on that. Otherwise we will do so at another time in a separate debate. Dairy farming and the whole of livestock farming have problems. Mr Van Gerven has said a number of things that I very much support. Finally, I would like to say that we very much wanted to cooperate with the SP and D66 on the initiative paper 'Wei for the cow'. I would be pleased if we could talk about this more fully in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u53	Mr Grashoff also spoke on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance about grazing birds in relation to the way farming is done, including in the Netherlands. Since 1990 100,000 hectares of agricultural land have been converted into new nature. Could that be a reason, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u54	In order to say whether that could be a reason, I should, so to speak, now consider whether it could theoretically be. However, there are a lot of studies that indicate where the real causes are, the main causes of the decline of those meadow birds. These studies are consistent: this decline is due to the further intensification of agriculture. That's main cause number one. It could be a couple of foxes or a bird of prey eating something. Or maybe a meadow disappears here and there for the sake of nature reserve. Whether that turns out to be positive or negative, it's side business. The essence is the intensification of agriculture. All investigations point in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u55	I have a source of the Ecological Monitoring Network here. There are 28% more butterflies, 9% more reptiles, 91% more bats, 6% more mammals: squirrels, rabbits, deer, foxes, hares and hedgehogs. There are 62% more amphibians: salamanders, toads and frogs. I can go on for a while. Is that also the fault of the way we farm in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u56	I can't support these figures like this. I don't know what they're talking about. Do they relate, for example, to nature areas or to the total area? We know from all the studies, and they are also confirmed by the State of Nature report, which you also know, and reports from Bird Protection, that with meadow birds and rich life in the meadow areas, things are extremely bad. I made a point about that. And I don't think what you're saying is going to touch that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u57	I have a point of order. I have just forgotten in my own term to hand over the note on whatsappaction against food waste to the Secretary of State via the messenger. Will you allow me to correct this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u58	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u59	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on this very nice position. Our group could have imagined this choice of the coalition. Within the coalition there are all kinds of differences. You'll see today. In the Chamber there are many different opinions which are difficult to reconcile. This is also the case in the sector. Then there is Europe and all kinds of organisations of interest. Then you need someone who has the capacity to hold things together. If you've been Vice-President of the Labour Party for a few years, you have those abilities. There's no other way. So we could very well imagine that choice. That is why we are confident that this will be an excellent place, and we wish the Secretary of State every success in doing so. My question is what will become the Secretary of State's strategy. I ask him whether he would like to show any of that, also given the fact that these opinions are so different. He's about it himself when he does it, at the beginning, middle or end. The beginning might be nice. What I have seen over the past few years is that I am not putting it down to Dijksma, because that has been an excellent Secretary of State in this policy area. I call the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, the manure legislation, the soil bindingness, the phosphate rights. It's one arrangement after another. There's a stack of rules. If farmers think they know what they're up to, then there's gonna be something new. We ask them to invest in their company for sustainability and animal welfare. That actually requires certainty about policy and there is no policy. It's different every year. I ask the Secretary of State if we should not work towards some sort of agricultural agreement. In the energy agreement, you can see it's working. For a number of years, agreements are made: people, that's how we're going to do it. Of course, not everyone is happy, because there are compromises. Of course, things must also be done in Parliament, but then we will have a basis, a piece of certainty on which we can build. Does the Secretary of State see anything like that? Is that what he wants to do? Before I forget, I want to hand over an action plan. Everyone's handing something over today. That's gonna be some kind of use in this committee. Our action plan has already been distributed, but it must of course be officially handed over if it is to be part of the debate. The Secretary of State may not have had the plan yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u60	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u61	Over time, I have heard regular stories from entrepreneurs who are frustrated about fines imposed. In itself, that's not crazy, because a fine isn't nice. A fine must hurt, but the question is whether the administrative fines do justice to the gravity of the offence. Sometimes I have to question that. That is why we have drawn up an action plan, on which I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Let me give you three examples. A farmer drives through a technical fault on the hydraulics with his sprayer over a distance of 150 meters too close to the ditch edge. Then he discovers the malfunction and recovers it. The NVWA detects this technical malfunction very well and gives it to the farmer: €1,500 fine. By comparison, if you drive twice as fast on a residential property as you are allowed and therefore dangerously busy: €400 fine. The strange thing is that the regulation does not allow for a fine other than that €1,500. The NVWA should just do that. I ask the Secretary of State to amend the regulations in such a way that, depending on the gravity of the offence, a lower administrative fine can be imposed. A second example. A dairy farmer rents his land to a bulb grower. In view of the expected weather conditions, this bulb grower sprays one day earlier than permitted by the operating instructions. There's gonna be an administrative fine. However, the offence is also being attacked as a violation of the framework conditions for European income support. In addition to the administrative fine, a discount of €2,000 will be added to the payment entitlements. That bulb grower will have a double sentence. I would ask the Secretary of State to arrange for a warning to be given in such cases, without a reduction being applied immediately. A third example. This is my last example, but unfortunately there are more examples to give. A dairy farmer has, in connection with special operating conditions, hired an external consultant for the manure accounting, which unfortunately many have to do, unless they have studied. This consultant mistakenly identifies natural land as regular land. The dairy farmer thought he was entitled to a derogation, but he's gonna screw up. All in all, this means an administrative fine of, don't be afraid, €100,000. You'll lose everything in one go. I don't think it's possible to have a neckbeat like that. The problem is that the Fertilisers Act offers little room for a real penalty ceiling. As far as we're concerned, it has to be different. Is the Secretary of State gonna take care of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u62	Like Mr Dijkgraaf, I think it is extremely important for farmers to be able to make agreements with livestock farmers, so that cows can graze on the dairy farmer's field and potatoes can be planted at the same time. How often do fines occur in such situations? I would like to hear this in the light of the fact that I would like to see more cooperation at this level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u63	Mrs Koser Kaya has a point to make. It is also a very clever way to pass on a question to the Secretary of State, but Mrs Koser Kaya has been around for a long time. Again, it's a fair point, because if you give up some of the responsibility because someone else is working with your stuff, you're at great risk. The question has been passed on to the Secretary of State. I'm switching to green education. Several people have said something about that. The Prime Minister has agreed to align the funding of green education with the rest of the education, but that has not happened. The Berenschot report and its validation show a gap of almost 10% between the funding per student in the green MBO and the funding per student in the regular and technical MBO. If you weigh the price factors, the cascade effects and the diploma cost and count the additional subsidies on top of the basic cost, the green mbo will be about €750 per student lower. You have to consider that one education is not the other, but where has the Prime Minister's promise gone? Why does green education have to fish behind the grid once again in the distribution of educational money between the various budgets? The Chamber has now adopted a motion calling for the transfer of green education to the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science. We are not happy with that. We think that's a weakness offer. Unfortunately, this way the child is thrown away with the bath water. I ask the cabinet to choose, at any rate, we have already shared this in interruptions for leaving the golden triangle business, education and government intact and for equal treatment of mainstream and green education. They do not have to bite each other at all, as long as the cabinet makes good internal agreements. Does the cabinet have that political will?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u64	I'll come back to the fine policy. I do not know whether Mr Dijkgraaf is also the Justice spokesman, but I wonder whether there is a selective policy or a policy of preference in relation to other situations. There are, of course, a lot of situations where people think: Jesus Christ... excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u65	I think there are limits to what we should use here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u66	I was gonna say, "Oh, boy." Everyone often thinks that fines are wrong. The question is whether there is any arbitrariness here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u67	No. I wouldn't be for that either. That's why I'm asking you to arrange for it to be done in a different way. You have to lay it down in a regulation and it must of course be in proportion to other offences and other breaches of rules. There's an imbalance for me right there. If you get a $100,000 fine for something you say "what exactly are we talking about?" Of course, it is not in proportion to a traffic offence for which you may be fined €100. I'm just looking for that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u68	I think that's too easy. I cannot see whether a traffic fine is the same as the examples of infringements that lead to a fine for business reasons. My question was, in fact, whether the SGP Group itself made that weighting and thus made it somewhat broader than just the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u69	Yes. We note that, precisely in the agricultural sector, fines are being paid which are very excessive, given the gravity of the case. There are no doubt examples of this in other sectors, but here we are dealing specifically with NVWA policy. This is a policy that we establish and is being implemented by the NVWA. So we definitely looked into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u70	Now that we're back on the fine policy, I'd also like to place an interruption. Would Mr Dijkgraaf like to think with us? Perhaps the Secretary of State could also elaborate on the fact that you will now be convicted twice for the same fact: you will be fined and your payment entitlements cut. I do not think this is possible in the Netherlands. I first saw a verdict from a judge who had a problem with that the week before. How does Mr Dijkgraaf view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u71	That is a valid point. Mr Van Gerven says 'compare it with other sectors and with the legislation of security and justice', but of course you cannot be convicted twice for the same fact. That seems to happen here, because when you've lost one, you'll automatically lose the other. There's one of my worries right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u72	Is it perhaps a good idea for Mr Dijkgraaf to pass this on to the Secretary of State, so that he can return to this tomorrow in the written reply and indicate how the cabinet sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u73	Sure, that's why I asked these questions and handed over a piece. If it could be done in this period of time, that would of course be the best thing in terms of budgetary treatment. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is critical of NVWA's financial policy, not "from" but "for." Many have already paid attention to this. This authority has more than less to do. Surely we all want them to check better? The cabinet even wants to transfer as many inspection tasks as possible to the public term. At the same time, net savings are still being made. Unfortunately, desired efficiency strokes are not yet realized and therefore it squeaks and cracks. It also means a huge burden on the costs charged to companies. Mr Geurts also had nice lyrics about it. It's really hard. Research shows that inspection costs abroad are often much lower than in the Netherlands. Prices for import controls, for example, are 45% to 72% higher in the port of Rotterdam than in Antwerp. Then you're really talking about something! In the case of a specific transport one may go elsewhere for that reason. The cabinet tries to condone the differences and ignores an adopted motion. We need to avoid undermining the quality of supervision and reducing fees for the agricultural and logistics sectors. Fee increases are not intended to solve budget problems at NVWA. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the NVWA is adequately budgeted without the industry being put at a disadvantage? I have an amendment in mind to provide for an additional budget for NVWA, but it would of course be much better if the Secretary of State promised it tomorrow. As a follow-up, I would also like to draw attention to an alarm bell from industry organisation EVO and Fenedex about the setting up of NVWA on export. According to them, the NVWA communicates poorly, is not flexible and is bureaucratic. I say again: that is what they say. We are getting this information and I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State, because I am concerned that it seems to me that it is at least happening to the organizations that are working on this export. What does the Secretary of State think about this? And if so, what will the Secretary of State change about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u74	I think Mr Elbert... Sorry, Mr. Dijkgraaf. This is because Mr Graus is standing next to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u75	Dion always disturbs things. Dion, sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u76	Mrs. Lodders, go ahead. It's Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u77	I'll start over. Mr Dijkgraaf and I very much agree on the NVWA. We both get the same signals from agriculture, horticulture and other sectors about tariffs and customer friendliness. I have also paid attention to this in my speech. I heard Mr Dijkgraaf say that he is considering an amendment to see if extra money can be put in the direction of NVWA. On what basis is he considering that amendment? I ask this in relation to the letter and the investigation announced by the Secretary of State. I want to prevent us from holding the debate here next week, but I do think it is important to hear on the basis of which Mr Dijkgraaf announces that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u78	The basis is that we have been getting a lot of signals together for a long time that there is actually too little control, that times of transition are sometimes too long and that there is too little capacity to do things right and fast. It is not only important that it is done well, but that it is done quickly. For example, if you want to export, you don't want to wait for an inspector who's late. Those signals, added together, have led us to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u79	We have received a letter from the Secretary of State in which he writes that he wants to carry out further research on three aspects: efficiency, ICT and the re-evaluation of supervision, the question of whether there is still a balance in our ambition to do so. Why not wait for the results of those investigations? When extra money comes, of course, the incentive is away to shape efficiency, ICT and re-evaluation in a good way. Last summer, motions were tabled to check the temperature in the stables in hot weather. Well, we don't need a NVWAer to see that the temperature can well rise, because that also affects us as people. That kind of capacity is at the expense of other things that we want to control. I think Mr Dijkgraaf will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u80	Mrs Lodders should not feel that the amendment will remove all pressure. We're still looking at the exact numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u81	I didn't see that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u82	Of course you haven't seen it; that's why I'm telling you here. We're thinking about 15 million. That's not gonna take away the pressure there is. When I hear the signals together, I think it's actually gonna take a lot more. Those other things must take place without delay. The efficiency can be improved, the ICT is outdated. So much needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u83	My question to Professor Dijkgraaf concerns the following. There are problems with NVWA both qualitatively and quantitatively. That's obvious. The requests I have made here since 2008 are virtually none supported by anyone. I find that incomprehensible. Now it's too late. We must give the NVWA time and we must give it the means. I agree with Professor Dijkgraaf that the minor offences should be less fined, but harder action should be taken against assholes who have really deliberately killed and sick on their consciences. Does Professor Dijkgraaf share that with me? I tasted something else after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u84	The honourable Member, Mr Graus, has made a good point. I am concerned with the cases on the other side of the scale, the cases from which you can ask yourself whether you should punish them in this way and which you can say: it just happened accidentally, it is a mistake. Sometimes you can think of a fine for it, but it's not that big of a fine. On the other side of the scale, which Mr Graus is talking about, there are people who are deliberately doing terrible things. Of course, you have to take it hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u85	I got a bit of a different impression, also because in your piece the fines of €810,000 are quoted. The Chamber itself requested this by a majority. In fact, I believe that Mrs Dikkers has been involved. I just want to report the following. We must indeed give the NVWA the means. I am in favour of more NVWAs and more quality and quantity. I've been asking you that for so long when I'm in the room. But you have to give the NVWA teeth, too. It shouldn't be a toothless tiger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u86	I couldn't agree more, but we kind of fell into our own swords. Raising the fines that are intended for the serious cases is now punishing the people who only make a mistake. That is what my question is about. Make that distinction! People who do really wrong things must be punished hard; the others must be able to be spared. Mr. Chairman. My next point concerns the obligation to land. Fortunately, several colleagues have already addressed this issue. As of 1 January 2016 the landing obligation for demersal fisheries shall be applied to demersal fisheries, which is in a small month's time. This simply means fishing for fish that swim just above the bottom, but 'demersal fishing' sounds better. The landing obligation starts on 1 January, but the administrative systems are not in order. Given that we are now four weeks ahead of that date, can we not expect this landing obligation to actually go ahead for the sector? Is the Secretary of State prepared to postpone, for example, six months? After all, we cannot really introduce this landing obligation until the systems do it. Finally, when you read the beginning of the Bible, you see a very nice assignment, which is actually also the assignment to the Secretary of State. At the very beginning of creation, the mission is to build and preserve the earth. In general, we succeed pretty well in the first, building things but also ruining things. However, storage is often much more difficult. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to bring these two things together in his work. On the one hand, we need to work on productivity and on a sector that can move forward. On the other hand, we must also take good care of God's creation. I wish him God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u87	Mr. Chairman. A new Secretary of State: a very warm welcome and congratulations. I've met the Secretary of State a number of times. I don't know if he remembers, but one of those times was 12, almost 13 years ago on a B&W broadcast. The PvdA had won the 2003 election and to his surprise, Martijn van Dam, number 41 and with his 24 years also the youngest candidate on the list, was elected. I was there because the Party for Animals had obtained a seat two months after its founding, with the exception of a hair of 0.1%. The youngest MP proudly said that one of the reasons the PvdA had won was that the PvdA had regained political colour. In response to a question from me, he also assured the viewers that the PvdA would really not give up that color within a few months because she wanted to rule if necessary. If the Secretary of State still holds those same ideals, that promises something. I'm hopeful. When I presented our own initiative proposal against the unsedated ritual slaughter in 2011, I found the MP Van Dam at my side in the fight against animal suffering by unsedated slaughter. Van Dam then travelled town and country to draw many PvdA's attention to the need and importance of this ban. His words were firm. "The standard should be that animals that are slaughtered ritually should be sedated. That is and remains the starting point of the PvdA." The legislative proposal was adopted by a very large majority in this Chamber, partly by the efforts of MP Van Dam. I'm still incredibly grateful to him for that. I would like to speak on this subject in more detail in my speech, but I wanted to highlight this. Here we are again. A new Secretary of State begins with a clean slate. New round, new opportunities. The Secretary of State has no ties with the traditional agricultural lobby and he is known as a pioneer with ideals. In De Financieele Dagblad I read that the Secretary of State is known among his colleagues as a hard negotiator and a crafty politician, who is always and everywhere monitoring the interests of his party. I hope that this Secretary of State will fight for the protection of animal welfare, which the PvdA states in its election programme that it attaches great importance to. The new Secretary of State has a lot of pioneering experience in various areas. More than once he has literally said not to accept the interests of the establishment or the status quo. This promises something, because in agriculture and nature it has traditionally been the case that established interests and deep-rooted CDA starting points and traditions play a major role in the debate on change, a change that is so necessary in view of the major challenges in terms of food, biodiversity loss, climate and animal welfare. My group hopes that, together with the Secretary of State, she will be able to come up with a policy in which sustainability, awareness of the weakest and the fight against injustice are important principles. I greatly appreciate the struggle of the Secretary of State in his political career to protect the individual's position from the power of, for example, housing corporations or other large institutions. My hope is that this Secretary of State will also protect the position of the individual citizen living next to a mega-tal, the position of a family business that wants to maintain its human size rather than focusing on bulk production with sales below cost or the position of residents who are at higher health risk due to zoonoses or infectious diseases from livestock farming. I hope he will protect the interests of citizens in order to enjoy undisturbed animals in nature that have not become shy of the hobbyists with a gun. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The coalition agreement does not contain any iron and concrete agreements on agriculture, animal welfare, food and nature. If you look at the election programs, there's a potentially animal-friendly Chamber majority. In short, all the lights are green. That's a promise. The Secretary of State can take animal and nature-friendly measures that do not cost the State money, but even more, often save money in terms of health costs, enforcement costs, etc. I am thinking, for example, of an early reduction in pig farming. The minister's predecessor said this year that this reduction is inevitable. I am also thinking of dairy farming. It makes much more sense to let a dairy farmer keep as many cows as he could feed. Then we have healthier cows, the manure heap is much smaller and farmers do not have to deal with laws and complex calculation models to control ammonia, nitrogen and phosphate emissions. For example, if we get a law on animal numbers with a maximum barn size and the possibility of rejecting permits on the basis of animal welfare, ethics, the environment and public health, then the fragile values are again at the heart of the agricultural economy, rather than the economic interests in the short term. Rural viability will then increase and the risks of unsustainable animal diseases outbreaks would be reduced. There will therefore be room for animal-friendly agriculture. In short, there are opportunities for change of course. The key question is how the Secretary of State intends to enter the history books. Does he want to take advantage of the opportunities to realize his ideals in the unique opportunity he now has for the sake of future generations? Or will he go down in history as the Secretary of State who could not save the Netherlands from the livestock industry and the manure tsunami of 70 billion kilos of manure per year? Is he willing to work on a policy in which compassion, sustainability and the capacity of the earth are the starting point? Or does he think that someone with his ideals can afford not to? We know the views of Wouter Bos, the architect of this cabinet, on ideals. He believes that a politician could never keep more than 25% of his ideals whole. Suppose that's how he starts, that you have 100% opinion of something. Then you become a member of a political party. Then it starts turning in, because that party doesn't have the same opinion about everything as you do. Then you become a member of a group in which there are others who think differently, so you have to turn back in. Then you have to compromise with political opponents; even more water with wine! Then it turns out that the practice is more rigid than you had thought at the time of the coalition agreements, with new adjustments following. Suppose, Bos says, that a politician manages to maintain 80% of his ideals at each of these steps and 50% in the compromise with the coalition partner. Then at the end of the ride according to Wouter Bos 25% of these ideals remain. According to Bos, every politician who steps into politics with a big story at the end of the ride has only a quarter of the big story left. Bos adds that in his opinion such a politician does what he has to do. Last week, Bos repeated his course "by definition to make wine" again in the Volkskrant. At least I don't know Martijn van Dam and I hope to never get to know him like that. Ideals are there to keep more than 25% whole. Then you really stand for progression. Of course, the conservative forces in the livestock sector, fisheries and nature management will try to make it clear that change can only come out of the market, that the government must remain at a distance, pointing to Europe's level playing field, which means that everything can be put off, and that everything must be done on a voluntary basis. As has already been said, I can assure the Secretary of State, since the discussion on the acceptability of intensive agriculture and fisheries some 40 years ago. Many are ready to dedicate the Secretary of State to the most romantic side of their nerd. Donkey chicks. Crazy little pigs in sight stalls full of straw. Sustainable fishing methods which nevertheless continue to use towed nets. The fairy tales of hunters who tear away a tear when they take an animal out of the system to protect it from severe suffering in the power of his life. The Secretary of State has already paid his first visit to a stable and has already spoken with the President of the LTO. In the eight years I have been a Member of Parliament, I have seen ministers and Secretary of State for Agriculture make work visits to parade horses such as the round stables. The round stable was created by Wageningen University in 2004. Since then, ten years later, four round stables have been opened, including a mini round table with 200 laying hens. A total of 18,000 roundabout chickens out of a total of 47 million in industry. However, even more than ten years later, the project is presented in similar windows as promising and used as an example for where livestock farming is going on its own. However, reality is different. We all know this when we look at the development of the laboratory stables, look at the mega-stables projects and the development of the agricultural economy of'more for less'. Can the Secretary of State promise that he will also deal with animal protection organizations such as Eyes on Animals and Wake-up Animal? Does the Secretary of State also visit a company that shreds a day scarf? Is he gonna tell himself how a pig is castrated unsedated? In short, is he open to the uncomfortable reality? We'd like to get a response. There are opportunities for open goals and the time is short to take advantage of that momentum. After all, elections are almost over again. We would very much like to help the Secretary of State to discover the leghold traps of the agricultural dossier and the animal welfare dossier, but above all to find ways to create a more pleasant society for humans and animals. I take this opportunity to identify a number of opportunities for better animal welfare, starting with animals in the livestock industry. Then I will look at the opportunities for a better policy on animals in our nature. I told you that in 2011 we tabled the bill for a ban on unsedated ritual slaughter, which was adopted by the House of Representatives by 116 votes after an extensive debate, partly thanks to the unbridled commitment of MP Van Dam. Unfortunately, the First Chamber crossed a line. Literally at the eleventh hour, during the treatment in the First Chamber, the idea of a covenant with religious organizations emerged from the upper hat of then Secretary of State Bleker. In 2011, MP Van Dam had already noticed that a covenant could never be enough to limit or end the animal suffering in the ritual slaughterhouses. When religious communities proposed to come up with a covenant, MP Van Dam said that a covenant would not achieve what the bill intended. Unfortunately, he was right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u88	I hear the word "religious." I sometimes hear the words 'Muslims' and 'Jews'. But also in the regular slaughter, abuses have been discovered. Chickens were ripped open alive. That's what I said in the Chamber. I would like to have a response from Mrs Thieme to the following. The initiative law referred to reversible stunning. A stunning is reversible, by definition. However, I believe that an animal should simply be dead before being cut or ripped open. I've made a few requests for that. Unfortunately, I received very little support for this, less than Mrs Thieme. My requests went a little further, of course. However, does Mrs Thieme not agree that there should be an irreversible stunning in a possible new legislative initiative? The animal should therefore not be able to recover during slaughter. The animal must be dead before being slaughtered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u89	Mr Graus and I are both very concerned about the suffering and fate of animals, particularly in slaughterhouses. Then it is important to take a good look at how there are also so many abuses in the regular slaughter. Why do pigs die horribly because of CO stunning? Why is there so little electrocution in chickens, so they are often still conscious when they are cut open? That has to do with the size and mass of the slaughterhouses. The fact that 600 pigs are hunted and slaughtered per hour is a major problem. The risk of stunning lies in the fact that it is so massive. That is why I would like to work with Mr Graus to tackle the massiveness of the slaughterhouses and the bio-industry. We can have a discussion at another time on whether reversible or irreversible stunning is better. I would like to discuss this with Mr Graus at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u90	I know a lot of NVWA doctors. They have a very ungrateful and hard job. They're vets. They could also have had a nice practice, but they are trying to do something about animal welfare in slaughterhouses. These people are intimidated and threatened. They see all day, continuously, very nasty images. However, these people say that there are also slaughterhouses where very high numbers of animals are killed, but where all these animals are dead before they are cut or ripped open. I don't care if this discussion is about Jews or Muslims or peasant-Dutch boys. The point is that an animal must be dead, and they say "incorruptibly intoxicated," but I prefer to say "dead" before it is cut or torn open. In Mrs Thieme's legislative proposal, I was sorry that an animal had yet to recover. That was also asked by certain religious groups, as I call them. However, we must be vigilant about animal welfare. We are here with the Secretary of State and the Government to decide what we want. I have yet again prepared a motion stating that an animal must be dead before it is cut or torn open. I would ask Mrs Thieme's support for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u91	As far as I'm concerned, an animal doesn't have to be dead at all. As far as I'm concerned, we leave an animal alive and stop eating animals. But since there are still people who do want to eat animals, we need to find the right method as much as possible. Then it's important to look at every stunning method. After all, it must certainly be a good method of stunning. There are both good reversible methods and good irreversible methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u92	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u93	The MP Van Dam was right when he said that a covenant would not increase animal welfare and that a covenant could not achieve what the bill intended. We've been three and a half years. The covenant was not published, as promised in 2012. There seems to have been a lot of fighting behind the scenes and hardly any new form of animal-friendly slaughter has been found. This is also reflected in last month's opinion report by the Buro van de NVWA. In fact, it confirms what I intended with my bill. The severe animal suffering from unsedated slaughter is avoidable if you go into stunning. Otherwise, you're talking about serious animal suffering. It's been known since the last century. Since 1919 there has been a legal obligation to anesthetize. To speak with the words of Mr Van Veldhoven of D66, it must not determine for an animal what faith his butcher has. The Secretary of State is aware of this suffering and I quote the Member of Parliament, Mr Van Dam, from the great stress that animals experience when they are restrained and hanged upside down. He is aware of this, and I quote the death struggle which, in many cases, takes tens of seconds and sometimes even gets up to minutes. He said, as a Member of Parliament, that no one can turn a blind eye to that, and those facts have forced us all to consider it. I now ask the Secretary of State to take the advice of the NVWA seriously and to propose an early ban on unsedated ritual slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u94	Mr. Chairman. The Buro of NVWA not only pointed to the serious animal suffering during unsedated ritual slaughter. I welcome the fact that my motion to make animal welfare a legal research task of NVWA's Buro has probably contributed to the BuRO's extensive consideration of the risks to animal welfare in the meat industry in its opinion report this time. I would like to mention a number of conclusions from this report. Due to the presence of animals in their own manure, the risk is that they will become infected with salmonella or E. colibacteria. Pigs are sedated with CO, which can cause well-being problems such as hyperventilation and respiratory distress before unconsciousness occurs and systematic registration is not available. In the Netherlands, a third of the number of newborn piglets is castrated, sedated or unsedated, with all the associated welfare problems. That's four million a year. Most animals have no straw or other materials that meet their natural need to play and investigate, resulting in tail and ear bites: abnormal behavior. Sows suffer from limited movement and skin damage just before throwing and during sucking time, according to NVWA's Buro. They suffer from the fact that they cannot exercise their nesting and nesting desires because they are fixed. Tails and teeth files are still common in pig farming, according to NVWA, and cause stress and pain in young animals. Calves show abnormal behavior by being removed from the mother immediately, according to NVWA. I can go on like this for a while. I'm going to go into some of these abuses and risks and show you can solve them. I was talking earlier about the CO-infestation in pigs. NVWA notes that stunning with CO in pigs causes serious animal welfare problems. On YouTube, anyone can find the shocking images of pigs that are gasping for air, screaming and panic trying to escape and suffocate. More than 6,000 pigs a week die in this way in the Netherlands in the regular slaughter. Previous rulers have indicated that they would like to do further research on this, but the Chamber has not yet been able to hear about it. Meanwhile, slaughterhouses are changing massively to this inexpensive and mass killing method. Is the Secretary of State prepared to phase out CO-anesthetic in pigs? I'd like a response. In his capacity as MP, the Secretary of State has indicated that he intends to abolish this method of water bathing for poultry. Is he prepared to strengthen these words now that he has every opportunity and nothing in the coalition agreement to oppose them? I'd like a response. The cabinet has so far refused to carry out an approved motion on mandatory grazing. Meanwhile, farmers spend money on research into the effect of regular movement on the health of dairy cows. In this study dairy cows are put in a running wheel. Farmers continue to put money into such investigations, while everyone can feel on their clogs that healthy movement is also very important for cows. Is this what we want to invest in, in these kinds of investigations? Isn't it much more logical to carry out the motion and simply arrange compulsory grazing? Providing grazing is a natural, inexpensive and from the point of view of recognizing intrinsic value the only right way to keep animals. The NVWA speaks deeply about the problems in calf farming. Mixing age groups, overpopulation and poor ventilation increase infection pressure and can lead to death in very young calves in the first three months. The calf farming has been working on an improvement plan for years now. In June 2014, the sector was asked by this cabinet, by the State Secretary, to come forward with a sustainable plan in the short term. The Chamber still did not see anything of this year and a half later, while 12% of calves die every year in the first year. Can the Secretary of State promise that the Kerstreces plan will come to the Chamber and that he will take action otherwise? In his speech for Farm, the Secretary of State said that we should be more vigilant about animal welfare. Is that his answer to the report of the Buro of NVWA? Does this mean that he is going to address the abuses and risks raised by the Buro? This concerns, for example, the separation of cow and calf immediately after birth, which causes a huge welfare problem. Those who have heard the heartbreaking glories of a mother cow after such a divorce know how much stress and grief this causes for mother and calf. There are a number of pilots running from the Louis Bolk Institute to keeping the calf with the cow. This institute hardly receives subsidies from the government for this. It is also questionable whether these pilots can be continued and funding arranged. Is the Secretary of State prepared to support this pilot and invest extra in it for the coming year? The Platform Agriculture, Innovation & Society advised in 2014 to regionalise calf farming in relation to public health. Is the Secretary of State prepared to follow these advices? The NVWA's Buro notes that the laws and regulations governing distraction and nesting material are hardly complied with in the breeding of sows and pigs. There is also still an overload in animal transport. In 2015 alone, the NVWA has detected hundreds of infringements. However, we see that for 2016 less money has been budgeted for the NVWA. I know the Secretary of State is trying to reverse the cuts on the NVWA, but there's still 10 million extra cuts on the staff. The Secretary of State recently said in a consultation on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council: "As far as animal transport is concerned, my commitment is to improve transport conditions as well as the duration of transport, both within the Netherlands and within the European Union as a whole."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u95	I'm very pleased with that statement. This would mean the implementation of my motion, which calls for national measures to be taken in respect of animal transport. Until now, efforts have often focused on Europe. We know how long that can take. Can the Secretary of State give an insight into his plans regarding the transport of animals? A new core task for the Secretary of State is the sustainability of livestock farming. That sounds good. I would like to give the Secretary of State this DVD with the film Cowspiracy for the weekend, so that he can learn about the disastrous consequences of expanding dairy farming on the climate. That's a little different from a note, I think. Then the megastables. In Parliament's debates on housing corporations, the Secretary of State has repeatedly denounced the negative consequences of scaling up and risky investments. He called for a return to small scale and stood up for the voice of the individual citizen. You're right. Unfortunately, we also see this dynamic of "more, more and more large-scale" coming back to the Dutch bio-industrie. Our Secretary of State comes from Brabant himself and should therefore be aware of the dramatic increase in mega-stables, the imminent health risks such as Q fever and fine dust and the decreasing viability as a result. I would therefore like to put the following question to the Secretary of State. In Wichmond, the owner of the hotel website booking.com wants to build an embryo factory for almost 1,500 cows, called Dutch Dairy Genetics. The Internet millionaire wants to breed the embryos to fly them over to Brazil, where the largest cattle factory in the world has to come. The cows there are then implanted with the Dutch embryos. And yes, the licence is already there, despite protests by citizens, by interest groups and even by LTO. How does the Secretary of State assess the arrival of this embryo factory? Can he confirm that, unfortunately, the new Animal Numbers and Public Health Act does not prevent such a factory on ethical grounds? Is the Secretary of State prepared to set a standard for the number of animals on a farm so that such stables are no longer possible? I'd like to get a reaction to this. For years, pig farming has been breeding sows that give as many piglets as possible per throw, so that more meat is produced. It is expected to reach 40 piglets per sow per year within three years. Those are completely bizarre numbers. And because the sow doesn't have enough teats for that, supersows are bred with more teats. What does the Secretary of State think of such a development? Stop or allow? I'd like to get a reaction to this. On a poultry day a few weeks ago, it was concluded that farmers consider antibiotic-free meat more important than investing in animal welfare. Farmers are therefore more interested in special sterile laboratory stables, SPF stables, in which piglets and pigs have to live in pot-tight stables, or in so-called Hy Care stables, in which piglets and pigs are literally stacked in plastic bins and driven through the stables. The latter is life and suffering and dying on the conveyor belt, literally. Hy Care, is this what the Secretary of State also sees as high care for pigs? Is this a form of a sustainable stable? We still have cattle markets in the Netherlands: in Elst, in Zuidlaren and in Hedel. There are on average about 2,000 horses and ponies between fairground attractions, fairs, discotes and tractor shows. Traders prefer to bring the animals just after midnight, so that they can still participate in the village party. The horses stand for hours on slippery boulders, where, if they are really unlucky, they are at the end put on a long transport to Eastern Europe, to be slaughtered in a dieron-friendly manner. The cover-up of the numerous violations with the protocol Wellness horse markets, for example, has not been achieved. I refer to the illegal sale of veterinary medicinal products, overcharged transports, illegal export, invalid horse passports and carrying out medical examinations of thousands of horses by one or two veterinarians. Animal welfare has left the welfare protocol for these markets. This Wild West has run into a horror story. Is the Secretary of State prepared to put an end to these old-fashioned, almost medieval horse markets and other livestock markets? I come to food policy, a subject which the Secretary of State is close to the heart, as I have heard. The price of meat, eggs and dairy in the Western supermarkets does not take into account the hidden costs associated with production. Mr Dikkers has already spoken about this. This is at the expense of farmers, animals, public health and the environment. For example, according to research by the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, the real price of pork should be 31% higher than the current retail price. Now we're paying for all that through the blue envelope. Is the Secretary of State prepared to re-assess these costs of the current method of production and consumption of meat and dairy products and to pass them on to society as a whole in the cost price rather than by tax? Real sustainability is realized in the Netherlands as we consume less animal products and less is produced for export. Does the Secretary of State have any concrete plans for that? The Government Scientific Policy Council states that there should be a radical change in the approach to the food issue: to stop the disproportionate export drive, to stop bulk production of milk, meat and eggs and to reduce the consumption of animal products. That is the opinion of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. The cabinet already stated in 2004 that meat is the most environmentally damaging part of our food package. Meat is indirectly subsidised by the extra low VAT rate of 6%. If meat and dairy were covered by the high VAT rate, research has shown that this would provide more sustainable choices. The Planbureau for the Environment teaches us that this could bring more than 1.1 billion. This seems to correspond to the line "no future for more for less," which the Secretary of State indicated on the anniversary of Boerderij. Is the Secretary of State prepared to translate these words into action in order to follow the recommendations of the Scientific Council for Government Policy? Is he also willing to work with Finance to see how VAT on fruit and vegetables can be significantly reduced and VAT on meat increased to 21%? Is the Secretary of State prepared, for example, to use the proceeds of this VAT increase to make healthy and organic food cheaper? I'd like to get a reaction to this. It does not show any sense of sustainability when the government takes trade missions to Japan and China to get the people there to our milk and our veal. These are countries where the majority of them are lactose intolerant. It doesn't give a damn about pumping billions of European and Dutch taxpayers' money into mega-stables in Ukraine. Last month, the Chamber asked the government by way of a motion to stop doing so. We have tabled this motion together with the PvdA. It is now being voted on by my fellow Member, and fortunately the cabinet has indicated to the international bank that it needs to be stopped. However, I have recently learned that at the insurer Atradius there are four new applications in which the government guarantees the financing of the expansion of these and other mega-chicken factories in Ukraine. So it's just gonna go on. New applications have been received. As I have heard the decision is already being taken on 18 December, I ask the Secretary of State to contact the Minister of Finance on this matter in which there is a risk of re-financing. Can he inform the Chamber in good time whether this request can be met, so that the Chamber can give its opinion before 18 December? So I would like to receive a letter about the requests for a renewed financing or a renewed insurance for a loan for the megastals in Ukraine. Finally, I come to the hunt, the animals in nature. My colleague Frank Wassenberg will dwell on nature as a whole. Animals in nature do not have the opportunity in our country to live their own lives and be free in a nature that both humans and animals can enjoy. No, nature must be exploited and animals have become living targets for a handful of hobbyists. Millions of animals fear the bullet every year and have become shy and invisible. Such a shame for tourism. But what do you want when, for example, 70% of all wild boars and 50% of all red deer are shot every year? How does it stand in relation to the previous statements by Mr Van Dam that we should also give animals a decent life in a civilised and developed country? And how does it relate to his earlier statement that he wants to better watch over animal welfare? Does that also apply to animals in nature? Unfortunately, the PvdA's electoral promise to end the pleasure hunt for wood pigeons, ducks, pheasants, rabbits and hares has been broken for the time being, but I hope that the Secretary of State will conclude in the debate on the Nature Act in the First Chamber that this was a big mistake and that it is certainly possible to stop the yacht and get it out of the law by means of a novelle. Hundreds of thousands of geese are gassed and over 70% of pigs are shot at the Veluwe and half of all deer and deer are shot at the Veluwe. Even foxes are shot day and night, thanks to the national exemption list, which the Secretary of State is about and not the province. Friesland and Utrecht also allow the hunting of cats. The hunter's lobby clearly has a big finger in the porridge and on the trigger. The Secretary of State is a champion of innovation and innovation, we read on his personal website. That's not so crazy with a technical background. That also promises something. Is he willing to focus more on innovative fauna policy, because of his desire for innovation and his ideals to stand up for everything that is vulnerable? This is a policy of fauna that does not apply equally to the primitive rifle, for example by starting and supporting experiments with non-lethal, effective methods of expulsion that are really going to help farmers. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is ridiculous that practical initiatives to prevent agricultural damage still remain in the closet and are being taken into account for the ineffective and cruel hunting and gassing of geese? For example, we have the Agrilaser. That's a fully automatic laser that distributes a green laser beam with a range of no less than two kilometers. The radius is observed by the goose as a physical object. That means danger to the animal. The Agrilaser is perfectly safe and very effective. One laser can keep 700 hectares of agricultural land damaged. 700 acres. And yet no province is going to work on that. How does the Secretary of State assess this lack of commitment on alternatives? Or does the Secretary of State know examples of these alternatives that are also used and encouraged by the province? Finally, I come to animals outside the Netherlands, such as elephants, lions and tigers. We are pleased that the Secretary of State is working on our motion to secure an import ban on hunting trophies such as ivory and tiger skins. Why have France and England already announced a ban, but does the Netherlands need time, research and a conference? It's been five to twelve for the animals, so let's not waste any more time. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u96	For the Acts, I would like to make the following observation. Before Mrs Thieme tabled a motion on the import ban, there was already an approved Graus motion for an import ban. It has already been worked on by Secretary of State Dijksma. It's got to be good in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u97	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u98	Then I'd be happy to hand over the stick to my colleague. I'd like to hand the DVD Cowspiracy over to the Secretary of State through the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u99	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u100	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on my behalf, too, to the Secretary of State. According to scientists, the quality of Dutch nature is one of the worst in Europe. The biggest cause of this poor quality is intensive agriculture, particularly the bio-industry. The bio-industry is not only unnatural and harmful to animals, but also to nature. Over the past decades, this contradiction has grown more and more. The greatest study ever done on the quality of nature, the state of nature, draws these conclusions unequivocally, while many of our politicians, up to and including the Prime Minister, ignore, trivialize, deny or wave away those elephants in the room. The impact of intensive agriculture on nature is nowhere more visible than in the countryside itself. The only species that are increasing in the countryside are pigs, chickens, goats and cows. And that happens behind closed doors. The population of other species such as meadowbirds is declining as a result of flying. What looks like green pastures is an agricultural desert for biodiversity: increasingly monotonous, increasingly large-scale, with increasingly inhospitable rai grass. The widespread use of manure and poison destroys all herbs, flowers and grasses that are not desired. As a result, animal life disappears, including the insects needed for the fertilization of flowers and plants. Agricultural nature policy provides thousands of farmers with natural subsidies, while their practices affect the landscape. Why has the much-needed nature budget been cut? Why has money been spent on nature subsidies to farmers? We must put an end to the scheme which provides for thousands of farmers to receive natural aid, while at the same time damaging them through the use of manure and agricultural poison. That was the outcome of a study by the Environment and Infrastructure Council that took place in 2013. This happened under the leadership of former CDA Minister Agnes van Ardenne. She called the farmer's nature management a big fiasco. If former CDA executives give these qualifications to agricultural nature management, you can assume that there is a case for forgiveness of the unparliamentary term, President.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. According to studies, agricultural nature management has yielded nothing. The Secretary of State also noted that the current agricultural nature policy does not contribute sufficiently and is unacceptablely expensive. That's plain language. Does the Secretary of State intend to stop the failing nature policy, which will cost some EUR 70 million next year? The harmful effects of intensive farming and livestock farming are not limited to fields and livestock. No, the damage penetrates deep into the Dutch nature reserves. Nitrogen from manure makes nettles and grasses swell and makes vulnerable heathens and dunes disappear like snow before the sun. The bio-industry lays down a blanket of nitrogen compounds, which eliminates vulnerable plant species. Also in nature areas that are sometimes kilometres away, the variation of plants and animals decreases rapidly. New nature policy has recently entered into force. The aim on paper is to restore nature reserves and reduce nitrogen emissions, but this nitrogen policy has in practice led to a real run on permits for more stables. Ultimately, this means more emissions and less nature. Can the Secretary of State explain how the expansion of livestock farming is accompanied by a reduction in the quantities of manure and nitrogen? And how could the expansion of livestock farming be beneficial to nature without keeping animals locked up in pot-tight stables in which they can never exhibit their natural behavior again? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The MP Van Dam once expressed his indignation at parties that give commercial interests precedence over nature, as can still be seen in a Youtube movie. Does the Secretary of State recognise that the economic interests of livestock farming have long taken precedence over nature, with all the negative consequences for that nature? Is the Secretary of State, who says he wants to watch over nature better, going to break this tradition and radically change it? How could he do that? I would like to hear a number of concrete measures, if possible. The coalition agreement offers room for it and there are majorities for it in both chambers of the States General. How long will the Secretary of State allow himself to be held hostage by the money and human resources of the coalition partner, who is destroying the most cost-effective thing we have, namely nature, irreversible and irreparable? I would also like to receive a comment. I would like to give some figures from the State of Nature report in the EU mentioned earlier in May of this year. In the Netherlands, 60% of protected animals and plants and 77% of their habitat are at risk. Only 4% of their habitat is in a favourable conservation state. Can the Secretary of State explain how stretching the rules contributes to improving nature? Reducing ambitions, shifting responsibility to provinces and society, austerity: how will the Secretary of State prevent the definitive bankruptcy of our nature? I would also like to receive a comment. The use of the cabinet has so far not been sufficient. In that respect, the bell for the last round has sounded loud and clear. If the Secretary of State still wants to achieve positive results for animals, nature and the environment, and therefore for the people too, he will now have to be full of an ambitious nature policy and a radical change of course. Internationally agreed nature goals are not met. Forerunners of the Secretary of State have laid down the responsibility for the failure of these targets in provinces, companies and citizens. They must now ensure that biodiversity grows again after decades of decline. Is this Secretary of State prepared to take on his own responsibility, for example by taking a stronger direction towards the provinces? I'd like to receive a response. This year we debated the new Nature Protection Act. Unlike his name, the nature protection law limits itself to the absolute European minimum, despite the fact that 90% of Dutch citizens believe that good protection of nature is very important. Commissioner Van Dam said about animal welfare that taking additional measures with standards higher than European standards is logical and fair. Does the Secretary of State share this view? Does he intend to take additional measures to protect nature, with standards higher than European standards? I would also like to hear a reaction to that. I'm on bee mortality. The Cabinet shares our concerns about the alarmingly high bee mortality and the contribution of neonicotinoids.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A large majority of the Chamber wants a nationwide ban on these neonicotinoids. My group, together with a specialist lawyer, has drawn up a plan which shows that there is a great deal of opportunity to implement this wish and to ban dangerous types of agricultural poison at national level. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to carry out the wishes of the Chamber in response to this plan. If so, how long will that take and if no, why doesn't he want to do so? And does the Secretary of State share our concern that deadly poison for bees cannot continue to be used in the so-called protection of crops? There are few agricultural debates where we are broadly in agreement as a Chamber and cabinet. But when it comes to patenting our food, there is a loud and clear no to hear in The Hague. Previous rulers have travelled across Europe to gain support for the plant variety right for farmers in order to protect the free availability of our plant wealth. Thank you very much for that. The monopolisation of food supply by gene tech giants is a major problem. The government has previously recognised that there are dangers in the large-scale cultivation of genetically modified crops, but the implementation of the recent motion by the Party for Animals to ban the cultivation of these crops in the Netherlands has been waiting for months for a balancing framework. I would like to know from the Secretary of State when we can expect a response to the motion calling for a ban on genetically modified crops in the Netherlands. I'll be on marine reserves. The Secretary of State bears responsibility for nature conservation, nature conservation and conservation, even when it comes to the protection of nature in the sea. And that protection is very much needed. When I look at life in the seas, I can't escape the recent report of the World Wildlife Fund, Living Blue Planet. This shows that life in the seas and oceans has been halved over the last 40 years. Unfortunately, the North Sea, our largest nature reserve, is also not doing well. The North Sea suffers from unimaginable predatory construction. The Secretary of State supports the international objective of reaching 10% marine protected areas worldwide. That's not much, by the way. This means that 90% of the oceans and seas can still be fished and predatory farming can be carried out on ecosystems. But even this poor 10% protection is still too great for the Netherlands. Only 0.25% of the North Sea is now a fishing-free zone. That's 40 times less than the target. Other areas of critical value to the ecosystem are not protected or only very partially. There are still not all fishing activities and economic activities banned. Moreover, these protected areas are scattered in the North Sea without too much coherence. The European Environment Agency warns that current protection is insufficient to maintain marine ecosystems. European Member States should also increase, better connect and protect protected marine areas. How does the Secretary of State intend to respond to this and provide the necessary protection for marine life and the ecosystem in the North Sea? Does he intend to designate more and larger fishing-free marine reserves? And does the Secretary of State intend to work to increase the coherence between these protected areas, for example through the North Sea Nature Network? I am also concerned that the Secretary of State intends to find a solution for empty oceans in farming. The Secretary of State allows this new form of bio-industry to grow through subsidies and the provision of locations. But the fish farm is an additional attack on the populations of wild fish. Many farmed fish are fed with wild fish, with fish caught. One kilo of grow salmon takes about four kilos of wild fish. Fish farms are also far from animal-friendly. The fish are kept in high density. They're damaging each other. Stress and cannibalism are widespread. Premature mortality is the result. That is the case with half the cultivated eel. Fish species that do not appear to reproduce well in captivity are manipulated in different ways to promote that reproduction and growth. In America, even the first genetically engineered salmon comes into the store. Diseases are also lurking when many fish are bred in small basins or containers. Growing fish are therefore given a lot of antibiotics. As in other branches of the bio-industry, this uninhibited antibiotic use creates resistant bacteria. In addition, the industry uses poison on a large scale to kill, among other things, parasites coming from the fish and their feces, in which they swim. Fish farms keeping their fish in separated pieces of open water are now known to pose a major threat to biodiversity. Hormones, antibiotics and resistant bacteria enter nature, and escaped farmed fish intersects with fish from the wild. This causes havoc among natural fish populations. Does the Secretary of State recognise that farming is not a sustainable alternative to emptying the oceans? How does he intend to prevent a new branch from being added to the bio-industry? I'd like a reaction to that. Through the North Sea I cross to nature on our Caribbean islands. The management of natural parks on land and in the oceans there is at risk if the Netherlands stops the subsidy. Investing in nature is often seen as part of a left-wing and expensive hobby, but research shows that every euro invested by the government returns to nature. Is the Secretary of State prepared to finally secure the conservation of the Caribbean, the largest nature reserve in our Kingdom? Is he willing to take responsibility for nature on the BES islands? My last topic concerns animal testing. In the field of animal testing, we have heard many fine words and intentions over the last few years, but we do not see very much concrete action being taken to actually carry out the legal task of carrying out animal testing from the government. A new round, with new opportunities, with a new ruler with ideals. I call on him to work hard on phasing out animal testing. This brings me to our adopted motion from 2013, in which we have asked the Secretary of State to prohibit immediately the practice of the toe-cut, in which animals are distinguished by cutting off toes. The Secretary of State announced two years later, early November of this year, that alternatives to that toe cut were being considered. Two years later! The law states that damage to animal welfare should only be allowed in the event of serious social interest. I therefore expect the Secretary of State to make haste to introduce an alternative to animal toe-cutting, 'because in a civilised, developed country we should not only be able to treat each other properly, but we should also be able to give animals a decent life'. This was said by MP Van Dam in the continuation of the debate on the unspoiled ritual slaughter on 22 June 2011. That's a promise! I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he supports the words of the Member of Parliament, Mr Van Dam, and whether he thinks that these words also apply to experimental animals. In the Netherlands, 600,000 experimental animals are used every year. That number hasn't dropped for years. In addition to these 600,000 experimental animals, almost as many experimental animals are kept in reserve or used for breeding. Those animals will be slaughtered after a year. This means that more than a million animals are kept and bred in the various animal centres in our country to be used as experimental animals. That's a frighteningly high number. However, the government says it aims to reduce the number of animal experiments. I studied biology and, as a student in Utrecht, I experienced animal experiments very closely. For me, that was ultimately the direct reason for my commitment to the protection of animals. At that time, I saw that in the development of medicines or treatments of diseases, researchers are not at all interested in what these medicines do to animals. It is almost always about man in the end; the animal is nothing more than a model system for man. If the animal doesn't look enough like humans, researchers try to change it. In this case, for example, the animal is changed by genetic engineering in such a way that it can get human diseases. The results of animal testing are then eventually extrapolated, translated into humans. And that's where it goes wrong. When I say that the results of animal testing are often unsatisfactory, I express myself very lightly. NRC Handelsblad wrote extensively on 14 November about the false hopes that animal testing offers far too often to patients. In 50% to 80% of animal experiments it appears that there are completely different results if these tests are repeated. So they're not reproducible. In science, that is an absolute mortal sin. In the article in NRC Handelsblad, Bart Roep, professor of diabeticology at the Leiden University Medical Center, described euphoria as the biggest lie of biomedical science in every successful animal trial. Of the 307 drugs that have appeared to fight diabetes in mice in recent years, only 3 have meant something to humans. That's less than 1%. A model with such low reliability is not considered useful in any other industry. We are now in a bizarre situation where we can cure mice from Alzheimer's, diabetes, cancer and various other serious diseases, which we have allowed animals to receive first. However, we cannot help patients. The Netherlands spends hundreds of millions of euros on animal testing, but the major health breakthroughs remain out. More and more scientists admit that animal testing often hinders medical progress rather than helps progress. Whether a substance that works in experimental animals also works in humans is completely unpredictable. I mentioned it a moment ago: a test animal is a model for man. Results of animal testing should be translated into humans. This translation is difficult or often even impossible and the results are unreliable or sometimes misleading. But it is of course of the utmost importance that we advance medical science in the search for the cure of diseases. The animal test isn't gonna help us with that. What we need to go to is the use of other model systems, without animals, which are more reliable, which can be carried out more quickly and, very importantly, whose results can be better translated into humans. In part, these other model systems already exist. I will mention a few: cell culture, tissue culture and the use of residual tissues from the operating rooms of hospitals. But many more alternatives need to be developed that do not require animals to be used and that produce better results for humans, because we all want to stay healthy and healthy. What is also very important is that the Secretary of State is going to work to get the alternatives that already exist recognised in Europe, because validation, recognition of alternatives to animal testing, is also a problem. This is a waste of a great deal of time and I therefore ask the Secretary of State to work to promote on a European scale the validation, the recognition of alternatives to animal testing. We would like to table an amendment in a moment so that the budget for alternatives becomes really meaningful. Leading by that is what ZonMw has calculated, namely that we can reduce the number of animal experiments by 15% per year. The amendment is in line with the advice report In transition published on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs! It recommends that animal-free cooperation in the top sectors be encouraged by the TKI payment scheme. In addition, we remain within the TKI payment budget, as we see this money for animal-free alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u101	There are a lot of interruptions to be placed on the Party's contribution to the Animals, but I have failed to do so. I shall confine myself to one interruption, namely the connection between agricultural nature management, fiasco and former Minister Van Ardenne. I think the Party for Animals has used the report Unlimitedly sustainable, a report from the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure of 2013. On page 66 reference is made to the period 1975-90 and the word 'fiasco' would refer to that. This is not about field practice, but about the fact that the management agreements did not come off the ground administratively. I really want to make that factual nuance to the contribution of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u102	It is actually a comment for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u103	Mr President, may I correct Mr Geurts? That is indeed the report I was referring to, but the expression 'fiasco' was taken from an article from Trouw. I'd be happy to forward that newspaper article to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u104	I know that newspaper article. It is up to the editors to put a headline above a newspaper article, but in fact it is not to be taken out of the report and I have just shown that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u105	I'm just gonna grab the piece, because that makes it easier to respond to this. The first conclusion of the report is: "If agricultural nature management were to be abolished as a whole, negative impacts on biodiversity would be limited." That's political jargon for: it doesn't help anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u106	The word 'fiasco' has been used and I have just corrected Mr Wassenberg by saying that it does not relate to the line he is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u107	If we can agree that it doesn't help, at least we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u108	Much is being doubled, and I do not blame Mr Wassenberg, of course, because he is a replacement and has not followed everything here. Everything he said about replacement, refinement and acceleration in the alternatives to animal testing has already been laid down in commitments made by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of EZ in this term of government and in four motions adopted by Member Graus. It's nice and nice to repeat it all and it's also nice for the stage, but I think it's better to cut new things. I would like to say to Mr Wassenberg: don't imitate, innovation! That's what I'd like to advise him in case he comes back to the Chamber again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u109	Mr President, may I respond to that? I've been looking at the numbers. These figures show that from the 1980s the number of experimental animals has fallen to below 1.5 million animals. But that drop has been stopped for 15 years. We are now seeing a stabilisation of about 600,000 to 700,000 laboratory animals and nothing is going to go away from that. There has even been a temporary increase due to the use of biotechnology in animals. What we see, too, is that the number of animals used in reserve, which are kept under the same conditions as experimental animals, has risen from 300,000 to 500,000 to 600,000. So the total number of animals in the animal centres has even increased, and not nearly. Mr Graus says that a great deal has been said about it in the Chamber. That is very interesting, but apparently the number of experimental animals has not been reduced. That's what I want to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u110	Mr Wassenberg may one day find out: everything in The Hague, even the elevator doors, goes through a funnel as fast as thick shit, just to stay within the professional jargon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u111	Well, well...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u112	It just doesn't go as fast as you want. The motions have all been adopted quite recently, but we must, of course, give the Secretary of State the opportunity to do something with them. Everyone's pulling the Secretary of State's jacket right now. Who wants to walk under mother's umbrella, asks the Christian Union. Another party is asking for more work visits. I'm against that. The Secretary of State must simply proceed with the execution of our motions. Then you'll see that things are moving fast. But we can't break iron with our hands. Something that's lasted decades, you can't solve in a few months. So you must give the Secretary of State time to carry out the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u113	May I respond to that, Mr. Chairman? That's why I explicitly asked you to bet more on validation. It is indeed extremely slow. Scientists can develop alternatives, but it can sometimes take 15 to 20 years for these alternatives to be widely recognised politically. Political recognition is often even slower than the scientific breakthrough. That is why I asked the Secretary of State to work on validation on a European scale, so that the alternatives, when they are there, can be used more quickly and earlier by science, and so that we can get rid of the animal testing that we both want to get rid of. The validation is really crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u114	I just wanted to come back to agricultural nature management. Mr Wassenberg was right to point out that agricultural nature management has had extremely poor reports. You can argue whether it didn't work out at all or very little, but it's both too little. So far I can follow his story very well. However, I sense that the Animal Party is actually saying: abolish it. Abort agricultural nature management. At the same time, I believe that I am curious whether Mr Wassenberg agrees with me that there are good examples of good and effective agricultural nature management. For example, the Bird Protection works together with a hundred meadow farmers who do so in an excellent way. Does Mr Wassenberg agree with me that perhaps it would be wiser to ensure that the resources for agricultural nature management are effectively and effectively used, and that this would be better than abolishing them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u115	I think it would be important for the resources available to be spent on nature budgets, which are now being cut, but not on agricultural nature management, because it can really be done in a better way. You can only spend the money once, and agricultural nature management is not enough for us. So, as far as we're concerned, that's not where the money goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u116	I am trying to convince Mr Wassenberg to look at this differently. I do so on the assumption that you cannot convert all the agricultural area, or a large part of the agricultural area, into nature, which you will then manage, apart from the fact that this would be really very expensive. I might pay for the latter, but I don't think a majority of the House would. It could be extremely effective to have measures taken by farmers in an effective way, precisely within the agricultural function, with some control over what is happening in those areas. This is much cheaper, and at the same time effective within a naturally or logically agricultural area with cows in the pasture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u117	Mr Grashoff has just given an example that I do not know. Perhaps it would be wiser for him to discuss that example with me at once, during a suspension. Then I can come back to it in the second term. I think that's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u118	Excellent. Thank you for your contribution, Mr Wassenberg. I shall then give the floor to Mr Houwers as the last speaker on this first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u119	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating the Secretary of State on his new position. I hope he has a lot of success in that. There is much to be done, as we have noticed today. Today we are discussing the budget for Economic Affairs, especially the agricultural and nature sectors. I would like to draw attention to the word "and" in my contribution. We are not just discussing agriculture today, or only nature or agriculture versus nature, no, we are discussing agriculture and nature together. More and more agriculture and nature seem to be a contradiction, and that is not necessary at all. A farmer is not necessarily someone with mega stables or lands full of chemicals. However, a farmer is not necessarily someone with a small, cozy farm with chickens on the yard and cows in the meadow. I would like to call for a balance between the scales, in which agriculture and nature can exist alongside and with each other. I would therefore like to address issues which, in my view, are not yet in balance, issues where the scale is going to go crazy and where we need to look for ways of restoring balance. A subject that is not balanced is that of phosphate production. Phosphates are needed as raw materials for food production. Phosphates are needed for humans, animals and plants to live. People and animals get phosphate from food; plants attract phosphate from the soil. Phosphate is important for energy supply; in blood phosphate regulates, among other things, acidity. In practice, however, it appears that additional phosphates are added to crops via fertilizer. Feed from these crops is made from cattle feed, which also adds extra phosphate. The animal feed is eaten by the animals and the animals produce manure with a lot of phosphate. This looks like a circular economy. Phosphate can be reused in the chain, but why is phosphate only phosphate when it has "phosphate" on it? Can the Secretary of State explain why phosphate extracted or filtered from animal manure should not be used or used? I would like to see that differently, and in particular much more practical. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Total phosphate production in dairy farming is limited. The Secretary of State wants to prevent the Netherlands from losing the EU derogation. That is understandable and probably necessary. What would happen if we lose the derogation? What are the consequences of this in the view of the Secretary of State? Still, you might have to set a line somewhere and make sure that that line isn't crossed. On the basis of my liberal principles, I would prefer there to be as few limits as possible. But still, a little clarity needs to be provided. This clarity is also requested by the sector itself. Then it is perhaps advisable to listen to this sector too and see if you should come to something with each other. At the moment, there is no clear policy on this issue. There's a lot of uncertainty and everyone's waiting. The sector is waiting, but would like to be clear. Perhaps we can give in and clarify the sector by making rules. I call upon the Secretary of State to do so. I'd like to hear his views on how we can work things out with each other. Another issue is the Water Framework Directive. The provinces and the water boards are jointly responsible for this. Action is being taken on various fronts, including the government. Can the Secretary of State make it clear where we are on the timetable? Does he intend to draw up interim reports to show how we now meet the expectations and requirements we have imposed on ourselves? I would like to talk about nature policy and, in particular, agricultural nature policy. We certainly should not abolish it, especially since agriculture and nature, as I said earlier, belong to one another. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. I believe that we should continue to do so, but we should do so in an efficient way. Then I come to my most important point, the shrinking areas. Agriculture plays an enormous role in the shrinking regions. There are about 600,000 people employed in the total agro-economic sector. Many of them live in the shrinking regions. In the Randstad it is sometimes forgotten, but agriculture in the shrinking regions is the engine of the Randstad. As much as 8.3% of national added value comes from rural activities. The relationship between the shrinking regions and the Randstad is not balanced in the field of agriculture. I would like it to be balanced. That could be because we're getting more appreciation for it. That means you have to leave more space to make things possible in that way. So it shouldn't go through more rules. We're gonna fall into those rules soon anyway. I have two examples of this. During a working visit I received information about the use of prescribed air scrubbers that are not properly allowed, but are prescribed by municipalities as the best available technique. Next, we are going to check that these devices are on via electronic systems. Isn't it much better to see what its operation is, instead of looking at whether you have devices on that are not working properly? Isn't it better just to measure what's actually happening outside the stables? The goal of air scrubbers is ultimately to ensure that the environment suffers as little as possible. Then there's the story about the kilo shooters. The PvdA is proposing to ban it, but as I said in a question to Mrs Dikkers, there are two possibilities. The first possibility is that meat is produced according to the rules and can therefore simply be placed on the market. Then the market determines the price. So that's the referee right away. If you want that different, how do you deal with Christmas trees sold for €1 by a large rural chain? That's below cost, too. Then what do you do with certain companies offering breakfast for almost nothing? That's what they do to get people into the business. You have to make sure that such entrepreneurial inventiveness remains possible. So I also think you shouldn't introduce a ban on kilo shots. The second possibility is that animal welfare rules or other rules have not been complied with in the production of meat. Then you'd have to act against it. I therefore call on the Secretary of State not to go into the idea of banning kilo-bullers, but to look at how we can make a good contribution to the production of healthy food. We in the Netherlands are very good at that. I see that I have to finish, but that is exactly right, because I am also out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-13.u120	We're suspending for dinner break now. The continuation of this debate will be scheduled tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
