ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in this Chamber, particularly the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has asked for a short statement before we begin the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u2	Madam President. Last night at 10 p.m., the Minister of Security and Justice and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice offered their resignation to the King, who accepted that resignation. Ivo Opstelten and Fred Teeven have done their work as Minister and Secretary of State with great dedication over the past four and a half years. The answer to Parliament's questions, which was sent to the Chamber last night, was, in all conscience, responsible for the way in which the settlement was conducted with Cees H. Retreating became inevitable for the Minister of Security and Justice after a new fact came on the table. It turned out that administrative information about the deal with Cees H. was still available and could be accessed in their own organisation. That should have happened sooner. The Minister for Security and Justice has therefore drawn the conclusion for himself to stand down. In doing so, he has taken full responsibility and full responsibility, as is the case with the office of political authority. The Secretary of State then decided to resign as well. I respect that and thank them for everything they have done in recent years. This is a loss for the cabinet; that's how I experience it. We say goodbye to two expert, hardworking and loyal colleagues. Under their rule, the National Police have been introduced, the situation of victims has improved and crime has fallen. For example, Ivo Opstelten and Fred Teeven have made the Netherlands safer and strengthened the sense of security in our country. The work of both directors of Security and Justice is now being carried out by the Minister for Housing and National Service. In order to enable him to do so as effectively as possible, his own responsibilities and activities will be carried out as far as possible by the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I will nominate two new candidates for appointment by the King as soon as possible, but these positions are too important to rush into decisions. In a way, it is hard for the Minister who has been working until the end to get all the information on the table to clear the ground as soon as this has been achieved. But that's the rules of our state law. Ministerial responsibility must be borne. In personal terms, this is a difficult task, but it creates the necessary clarity in the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet from a constitutional point of view. Thank you for the opportunity to make this brief statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u3	Let's start the debate on the coverage of the deal with Cees H. We agreed on four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u4	Madam President. The statement just made by the Prime Minister follows yesterday's event. At the end of the afternoon, the message came that the receipt had been found. This discovery led to the departure of Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven during the evening. Their resignation last night prevents them from being able to answer for themselves at the place where it belongs. That place is right here. My group regrets that. In parliamentary democracy, the Chamber controls the cabinet, but the directors who are part of it must then be checked. The actual situation is that the King accepted the dismissals last night and that is why we are now having the debate with the Prime Minister. What is this debate about, according to the Christian Union? We believe that the Prime Minister should account for what has happened as a primus interpares of the cabinet. I see the statement he has just made as a first start. We also want to ask some questions about the closed deal. Those questions need to be asked and answered. We would also like to make agreements on the follow-up. What happened? The receipt was missing. Minister Opstelten first searched with his officials himself last year and found nothing. After that, there was an external investigation by mr. Van Brummen. Again, nothing was found. And now it's here. After the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, it will be there. It has become clear that it could have been there last year. The find of the receipt with the confirmation of the 4.7 million guilders ultimately led to the departure of Minister Opstelten. The Prime Minister said yesterday and just now that he respects that choice. I agree with that. The question is, however, what does he think in the end. Was this necessary in view of the content and what has happened? I would also ask this in the light of his statement last Friday in NOS Speaking Prime Minister. He said in that he didn't know what the coming up of the receipt would add. How does the Prime Minister judge that view of Friday in the light of Minister Opstelten's choice to resign after the receipt was found? I ask the Prime Minister to also address the role of former Secretary of State, Teeven. He was not allowed to speak about this matter in recent times......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He once said he knew everything. He recently said that the Minister had just informed the Chamber. Given the information now available, that can't be both true. What's the real story about Secretary of State Bitches? I'm asking the same thing about the deal. Before he left last night, Secretary of State Teeven said there's nothing wrong with that deal, by the way. Is the Prime Minister taking over those words? How legitimate was that deal? What was consent given at the time? Maybe it's kind of hard for the Prime Minister to answer all these questions today. After all, many more questions have been asked, including in writing, the answers to which have also been asked for a follow-up discussion. Those questions should not remain above the market, firstly because they affect citizens' sense of justice, but also because they impose too much burdens on new rulers. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to set up an independent committee, such as the Davids Committee we have had before, which can take on the search for further settlement and information. It must be able to do so independently and to inform the Chamber and the Cabinet. It is true that there must be new leaders in this important department as soon as possible. As far as we are concerned, they must be rulers with a state of law. This must be done carefully, and we understand this, but it must be done as quickly as possible. However, my group has been surprised by the fact that Minister Blok is replacing him. We once received the Royal Decree of 5 November 2012 under which Minister Plasterk was the first replacement for this ministry. Now, however, Minister Blok has been elected. We would like to have an explanation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u5	Madam President. The resignation of Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven was inevitable. Their position had become unsustainable when it became clear that the Minister had misinformed the Chamber about the Temple Deal. But there's more, because it doesn't seem consistent that Secretary of State Bitches constantly said to anyone who wants to hear it, that his deal was a top deal, but that he didn't know what the amount was. That can't be both true. It is at least so strange that the minister himself has not succeeded in getting the truth on his own department in all this time; something that Nieuwsuur managed to do. What exactly happened in the department, what went wrong, will still have to be investigated. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to launch such an investigation. The Prime Minister seemed to have been robbed by events. The whole of the Netherlands already felt that something was not right, but the Prime Minister showed himself as always from his light side. On Friday he told the media about Minister Opstelten: position not at risk, credibility not at stake. Even if it turned out that the amount of the deal was higher than previously stated, that would not add anything. On Saturday, he praised his Minister of Justice in the Algemeen Dagblad: he's on top of it, full focus, I'd name him again. Two days later, Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven resigned. Why? Because the amount of the deal was ultimately higher than the minister had initially said in the Chamber. What, so I ask the Prime Minister, has there been a change between Friday and Monday? It is not the first time that this Prime Minister has taken up a crisis situation. Just a month ago, the Prime Minister choked on the Verheijen case. He also supported him through thick and thin, but Verheijen eventually had to leave the field. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Justice is out of government. The interim administration of Minister Blok can only be very temporary. What, however, does the Prime Minister say? First elections, then new rulers. What does manning this important department have to do with the date of the election? A Prime Minister who takes his job seriously starts by proposing directors and only then thinks about that date. For all of this, I call on the Prime Minister to take up the following two issues. First of all, we are going to get answers to all the questions that remain open in this case. Secondly, the rapid appointment of two new executives in the Department of Security and Justice. I hope the Prime Minister has learned his lesson from this unpleasant issue. Last Friday he supported his minister through thick and thin. Two days later, he dropped the rulers like a brick. The prime minister has to count to ten before he says anything to the media, and he shouldn't laugh his problems out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u6	Mr. Chairman. If anything has become clear in the last week, it is the importance of good investigative journalism. That is a painful observation. News hours were needed to find out the truth. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to be assured that the cabinet is providing information on any subject that is asked for and unsolicited. The missing document was searched for a year. At some point, the Minister said: there is no more; that is a matter of trust. But there turned out to be more. Then, of course, the question of confidence, which the Minister himself called upon, plays a role. The former executives set up and Bitches have paid the highest political price. For example, the October process from the 1990s after ministers Hirsch Ballin and Van Thijn from that time again cost two directors their position. Their choice to resign was inevitable, but their resignation to the debate did not give the Chamber the opportunity to question the former directors of their responsibilities. You take responsibility in parliament, not in Nieuwspoort. That's how it should work in a democracy. For me, this debate is also about the role of the Prime Minister in this affair. The affair has been going on for a year, so he must have heard and read something about it. His fine political instincts must have warned him of the pitfalls. I assume I am asking the Prime Minister to correct me if he has not spoken at any time with the main figures, for ease almost all of the VVDs, up to the then acting Chief Officer Swagerman. Last weekend, the Prime Minister was right behind his minister. In the Algemeen Dagblad and Het Parool he said: we have a very good minister of security and justice, a man with a huge amount of experience; I have contact with him every day; I have every confidence in it. I assume the Prime Minister has asked his minister about the facts. The Prime Minister must have asked his mentor if there was any real search for the receipts. In the knowledge for many years that the General Court is not happy with registration and budgetary skills, the combination of receipt justice must have aroused the Prime Minister's suspicion, at least. The Prime Minister will have asked his Secretary of State who told journalists everything, how it was possible that he did not have sufficient memories of the actual financial settlement. Is that actual financial settlement also the amount of the amount that ultimately appeared to be involved? It is strange that the same Secretary of State, at his press conference yesterday, praised this good deal 'for the people and the country'. It wouldn't be my metaphor. This affair also says something about the Prime Minister's administrative style. It seems to thrive especially when he has the wind. I ask the Prime Minister to convince me that he has already done all he can in the past year to manage this difficult issue. That is what I am convinced of, ultimately, not a loose style of management by speech, but a timely signaling of bears on the road and decisive action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u7	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday afternoon it turned out that the Department of Security and Justice had information about the drug-criminal deal with Cees H. At that time it was clear that the Chamber had been misinformed by Minister Opstelten at the time. Thus, the position of both Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven had become completely untenable. The resignation of Mr Opstelten and Mr Bitches was inevitable. It was the only right decision. However, it would have been better if both former rulers had been accountable here in the Chamber prior to their resignation. After all, there are still many questions open. For example, it is still unclear why Mr Teeven suddenly could not remember the amount involved in the deal, when he said quite literally earlier: you do not know everything and I do. The resignation of Mr Opstelten and Mr Teeven is more than justified. The Ministry of Security and Justice has long been talking about malpractice: the mess with the National Police, the Demmink issue and the missing telephone tap of a conversation between Mr. Teven and Mr. Van Rey. I'd say go and look again. I'm sure it's still out there somewhere. Deafpots and intrigues, sleaze and dirt, it's like a new season of House of Cards. Last Saturday, Prime Minister Rutte said in the AD: we have a very good Minister of Security and Justice, I have every confidence, he is on top, full focus, day and night. Political cabaret! The Prime Minister seems to have completely lost control of his cabinet. If there's anything that has to die, it's the Rutte II cabinet. In Mr Opstelten's words: it was nothing, it is nothing and it is nothing. Hopefully we will soon have Lower House elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u8	Madam President. What a mess! What a mess it is with this cabinet, what a mess at the Ministry of V and J last year. How much money did this drug criminal get from Cees H? Was that 1.25 or 4.7 million guilders? Was there or wasn't there a receipt? The rulers said it was a matter of trust, but the Netherlands knows that almost no one in this cabinet can be trusted. The Ministry of Security and Justice looks like the Dutch Bermuda Triangle. Everything disappears: the phone taps of Bitches in the Van Rey case, the evidence of money laundering deals with top criminals and then again, fortunately, the rulers themselves. No one can trust this cabinet anymore. If the administration at a normal company were such a mess, the company would have been bankrupt a hundred times. This cabinet, led by that Prime Minister, is bankrupt. The already weak Dutch security and anti-terrorist policy has been politically decapitated at one stroke. The authority has no more authority. Criminals are given the opportunity to launder money behind the back of the IRS. If an ordinary man or woman, an ordinary citizen in the Netherlands, gives up €100 too little in taxes, he gets the hang, he gets a huge fine and probably also a punishment, but drug barons are rewarded. What a country! Still, there appears to be a screenshot of that bad guy payment. However, it appears to be 4.7 million guilders. Bitches and Bitches stepped out the back door yesterday. It is right that they are gone, but there are still a lot of unanswered questions. Why didn't the screenshot come up until now? What did the Prime Minister know and when? Who did he talk to? Surely it is incredibly unbelievable that Mr Teeven, in his role as a prosecutor, would not have known it was 4.7 million guilders? Who's gonna believe that? Has that ever been discussed with the Prime Minister, with a government representative's meeting, in the Council of Ministers or anywhere else? We need answers to all these questions. In any case, it is clear that this Prime Minister, Prime Minister Rutte, has completely lost control. He has plunged his party into a crisis after his policy has already brought the country into a crisis. My party, the PVV, does not mourn the departure of the two rulers. We have therefore tabled motions of censure against both of them before. In fact, I say to the Prime Minister: follow their example and leave with your entire cabinet! The sooner your disaster cabinet leaves, the better! You've destroyed the Netherlands enough as it is. Get out, get out! Go back to selling peanut butter, or whatever you want to do! But if that does not happen, if you do not listen to me, then at least immediately, today, appoint a new Minister of Security and Justice! Surely it cannot be that, when we are under fire from Islam terrorists who have declared war on us, we are making a minister responsible for the fight against terrorism on roofing and energy labels? Who makes that up? The Netherlands deserves better than the ruins of this cabinet. For the people and the country, I say to this cabinet: stop it! And I say to the electorate: submit a motion of censure against this cabinet next Wednesday, on 18 March! Get rid of them through that election! Enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u9	Mr. Chairman. This is a personal tragedy for former Minister Opstelten. Although we did not always agree with him, after 43 years of working in public administration, we do not allow him such a retreat. Mr Opstelten has taken his responsibility and said goodbye. That was inevitable, and he has done so wisely, and we respect that. The crimefighter Fred Teeven, on the other hand, appears to be also a crime-leaser. In his time at the Public Prosecutor's Office, he found settlements with top criminals who seem to have worked out favorably for those top criminals and on which the Chamber appears to be incomplete and misinformed. It is good that this case from the year 2000 came up with a strong piece of investigative journalism, but since the Minister and the Secretary of State have now left, I would like to concentrate on the big picture. Of course, you're hurting criminals by taking their dirty money, but you might wonder if the government should go into such an ethical twilight zone. We think it would be better not to negotiate with criminals and simply put all the cases before the courts, even if the chances of a conviction are sometimes very small. By doing so, we prevent public prosecutors from burning their fingers on the big boys from the underworld, and that means that the hands of ministers and State Secretary are also dirty. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that you should prosecute criminals instead of negotiating with them? The departure of both gentlemen also offers the Prime Minister an opportunity, namely the opportunity to bring diversity to his team. In our opinion, the successors of Mr Opstelten and Mr Teeven must respect the principle of diversity and reflect our society. Does the Prime Minister share our view that his cabinet is not a reflection of our society? Empathy and care instead of repression and aggression. Reconciliators instead of fanatical warriors. Dare to think differently. Dare to be peaceful and just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u10	Mr. Chairman. A controversial million-dollar deal with a drug-criminal killed Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Bitch last night. D66 considers the resignation to be understandable and inevitable. For fifteen years, from VVD Minister Korthals to VVD Minister Opstelten, the Chamber has been misinformed. The rulers are gone, but the questions about this deal must no longer remain unanswered, and that is why we are here. What exactly happened here? Who knew? Why hasn't the Prime Minister intervened before? "He's on top of it. Full focus. Day and night." That's what the Prime Minister in the daily newspaper said about Minister Opstelten, only three days ago. Wasn't that with the knowledge of today a cardinal error of judgment? Political loyalty is beautiful but must not lead to blind confidence. Minister Opstelten demanded the trust of the Chamber a year ago. 1,25 million guilders and not a bank statement; these are the facts, the minister said. Even when Nieuwsuur last week had details about the opposite, the Minister persisted: incorrect, no financial data, no bank statements, no documents. And then the evidence is finally found in the Ministry's digital cemetery: not 1.25 but more than 4.7 million guilders, duty-free, transferred by District Attorney Bitches to a drug criminal. What did the Prime Minister know about this case? He's supposed to be in charge, but is he the one who didn't slip out of this case? Did he ask his minister about the facts of this deal? In the same General Dagblad the Prime Minister said: I have contact with the minister every day. So he should know the seam of the stocking. What exactly was he told? Did he know about Van Brummen's investigation? Did he know this investigator wasn't allowed to talk to Secretary of State Teeven? A half-baked investigation is not a truth finding. Was that wise, I ask the Prime Minister. Why didn't Secretary of State Teeven just tell his minister the truth about the deal, about the people and their country? "I know everything," he said to Nieuwsuur. If there's a report on the conversation between Bitches and Opstelten, I'm asking the Prime Minister. If so, can this be sent to the Chamber during this debate? I hear there is this report, so let us not have to wait 15 years. What was the role of VVD senator Swagerman, who, as Deputy Chief Officer, was involved in this deal? In yesterday's NRC, he went wild. With gross accusing, Swagerman speaks of "brainless opposition politics." Does the Prime Minister agree with him? Surely it is the signature of this Chief Officer Swagerman who is under this settlement agreement. He had approved this deal while his boss Dato Steenhuis stated: I would never have given permission. There are rumors that these shady deals have occurred more often after the IRT affair. Is that right? What more facts and mistakes are we going to get? The bottom stone must come up and the lessons must be learned. There can be no way that prosecutors can single-handedly enrich a top criminal outside the tax administration, outside the OM summit around and outside the Minister of Justice. Deals with criminals need to be more transparent and they need to be controlled by the highest bosses. And what's going on at the Ministry? Keeping information under wraps for the Chamber is a mortal sin. If it were up to VVD and PvdA, we wouldn't be here tonight. In the past year, all requests for debate and requests for information from the opposition have been systematically undermined, suppressed and voted down. It's unworthy of a democracy. Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he is giving the new Minister of Security and Justice to put things in order. Does the Prime Minister do that himself, or does the Chamber have to do that for him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mr. Chairman. The resignation of the rulers was inevitable yesterday. Of course, all questions about the drug deal with Cees H have to be answered. I'll put a couple of them in the same way. Today, however, we are talking about much more than that. This debate is also about the functioning of the Prime Minister. Is he still in control of his crew? That is the question that is at the heart of my group now that the chaos has come to an end. I'll start with the deal. In 2001, after a dubious drug deal, the Public Prosecutor transferred 4.7 million guilders to a serious criminal. In order to collect an amount of £750,000, the D.A. helped Cees H. secure his millions from crime. Of course, no one understands anything about this. More punishment and less understanding of criminals was the motto, wasn't it? How can it happen that the government doesn't make a criminal poorer, but rather richer? The drug deal with Cees H. was discussed extensively in this room last year. At the end of the debate, my former colleague Jan de Wit predicted that this debate could be followed up. We saw that follow-up yesterday. Two rulers have quit. The Chamber was wrongly informed and the Minister for Security and Justice then drew the only correct conclusion. The SP found and finds it incomprehensible that Justice at the time cooperated in this deal with a criminal. Why did the shady stuff have to go through the public prosecutor's account in the Netherlands? Why was the IRS kept out of everything? Whether we should call it money laundering or tax avoidance, I don't care. The fact that the case stinks is clear to the whole of the Netherlands. How can a minister not be able to find the data within his ministry for a year and Nieuwsuur can? What does the Prime Minister say about the Ministry and about the functioning of its executives? For a year, more and more clues came to the table. Can the Prime Minister indicate when he first spoke to Mr Opstelten and Mr Teeven about the deal with Cees H.? Was he aware of the amounts paid at the time? Did Mr. Teeven inform him of this deal? Could the Prime Minister have known that the information provided by Mr Opstelten to the Chamber was therefore not correct? Shouldn't the Prime Minister have known about this? Mr Teeven concluded his statement yesterday saying that the country was served by the deal he made. Does the Prime Minister share this remark? What, according to the Prime Minister, is the great good that justified this deal with a top criminal? How does the Prime Minister judge his statements last week, that the amount is no longer available and that the credibility of Minister Opstelten is no longer at stake? I quote: "It's not that awfully interesting. If the amount turns up, we'll know the amount. Interesting, but I don't quite know what it adds." Does the Prime Minister think it is right that the Minister left yesterday? How's the Prime Minister's judgment? We're talking about the integrity of the BOLO here. Doesn't the Prime Minister care? Doesn't the Prime Minister care if the people and the House of Representatives hear the Minister's truth? Doesn't the Prime Minister care how in this country million-dollar cases are closed with top criminals? The nonchalant attitude of this Prime Minister is not in line with the professional attitude you can expect from a prime minister. Looks like he's bumping himself into the same rock on a massive scale. When rulers or party mates get into discord, he doesn't react modestly, but like bitten by a dog. Why does the Prime Minister do that? Why does he say in the paper that Minister Opstelten is on top of it and is full focus? Hasn't the Prime Minister had any indication in the past year that the story of Opstelten rattled? If he didn't get that clue, shouldn't he have had her? If he did get her, shouldn't the Prime Minister intervene if he finds it messing around on his team? I think so, and I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's views.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u12	Madam President. Yesterday Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven resigned. This was granted to them, too. The SGP considers the choice of resignation to be understandable. Not because there can be no agreements with criminals under certain circumstances. We have had debates on this in this Chamber for many years. I was allowed to take part in those debates. Following this controversial deal, we have adopted a law titled "Professions to Witnesses in Criminal Matters." In these debates, there was a very balanced and very detailed discussion of which cases were and which were not. There has been unease as to whether we are sufficiently effective in taking away criminal property. Those rules have rightly been tightened. So that's not really what's going on. It is not the case either because it has been found that everything has gone wrong and that the Secretary of State has acted unlawfully in his capacity as prosecutor. I have not yet been able to draw that conclusion in view of the documents which we were allowed to see confidentially. What is going on, then, and why am I saying on behalf of the SGP Group that I understand the choice of resignation? I think this is because the Chamber is not sufficiently informed on a sensitive issue. The missing receipt became a banana peel. It was a sensitive matter. It's been asked for repeatedly. The amount mentioned earlier was found to be incorrect. The information that would not have been available before turned out to be available later. That's a tough story. We are simply maintaining the standard that the Court receives the information it is asking for and that consequences are attached to it if no responsibility is taken on these issues. It is an important pillar in the relationship between the Chamber and the Government to uphold that standard. That is why I say on behalf of the SGP Group that the resignation is understandable. I do, however, have a number of questions about it. First of all... The documents that we have been able to see, the answers to previous questions and the commitment in debates show that earlier attempts were made to obtain the information, but that it did not succeed at that time. Then how come it did come up with a new search? Second. Isn't the retention period too short? It is not so strange that the information is not there if there is simply a shorter legal retention period for such agreements in the Civil Code. Is the deadline sufficient? Can we avoid this kind of problem if the retention periods are brought more up to date? Third. What role has the Prime Minister played in finding the truth on this issue? The SGP Group considers it important to clarify these questions further. There has been a delicate discharge for the cabinet with the departure of these rulers. The area of security and justice is an important subject. As far as the SGP Group is concerned, everything is being done to enable these important posts to be refilled as soon as possible. The resigned rulers have earned their spurs in the field of strengthening security. The SGP Group hopes that strong successors will soon be found to continue this important fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mr. Chairman. The decision of Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven to resign is far-reaching. That goes without saying. It is also understandable and inevitable on the basis of the facts that came to light yesterday. Last week, following the broadcast of Nieuwsuur about the deal with Cees H., almost a hundred questions were asked by this Chamber. The answer followed yesterday. There are certainly many questions to be asked in subsequent debates with successors to the Minister of Justice, but I will take the key question and the answer to that question, which led to the conclusions we saw yesterday. Where the Minister previously informed the Chamber that there was no information available on the financial settlement of the settlement, it turned out to be different. However, a confirmation of the amount of 4.7 million guilders was found in the back-up of a computer system that had not been in use for some time. That computer system could have been read out last year. The information could thus have been disclosed earlier and should have been reported to the Chamber earlier. That didn't happen, but it should have. For too long, therefore, there has been a lack of clarity as to the level of the amount and, as a matter of state law, the Court has been misinformed in the letter of 3 June last year. There is only one conclusion to be drawn. They were drawn by the Minister and the Secretary of State himself. My group very much respects the fact that the Minister and the Secretary of State have taken full responsibility and accepted it. My colleague Mr Van der Staaij said that this is the anchor of the information provision between the Chamber and the Government. The cabinet loses two capable rulers with them. That's a veining. My group would like to thank the directors for their commitment to public affairs in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u14	I have two questions for my colleague Samsom. First of all... How does he, as leader of the PvdA Group, look at the fact that his group is partly responsible for the fact that last year's request to hold a debate on this matter has been blocked by the coalition? Second. What does he think would have happened if his group, together with that of the VVD, had gotten its way when the debate was pushed through last Thursday? That's what those groups were trying to do. Does Mr Samsom think that there would have been a third-party investigation into justice in which this had come up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u15	If you read the file, you will see that from the first debate in 2013 there has been a continuous or oral debate on this matter by the Chamber. These written questions sometimes led to new information, often not by the way. If there was any new information, it was requested by the Chamber. Last week, new information came from Nieuwsuur. We have not blocked the debate. In fact, at that time we agreed and now that the ministers have resigned, we agree. We are just having this debate as it should be. Exchange of information between Chamber and Government takes place not only in the theatre here, but also in writing. That has happened many times. Yesterday, this written response led to the most far-reaching result, namely taking responsibility for the same answers by the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u16	For a year there was a chronic disinterest in the coalition, whether it was a plenary debate, a general consultation or a procedural meeting, to make anything possible here. I also blame the leader of the PvdA Group. It came from all over the place. Eventually, many parties had to work together to ask more than 100 questions, while the facts, the statements of Secretary of State Bitches and the amounts mentioned were clear. Mr Samsom speaks nicely about the rulers and says that it is respectful and understandable. I'm asking him for self-confidence, too. For a year, all the debates have been frustrated. Last week, the coalition tried to push it through on a Thursday night. Then the investigation was never done again, for the third time, that led to this unquote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u17	First of all... If you accuse my group colleague, Mr Recourt, of chronic disinterest, you are failing him. I don't accept that. Second. Indeed, you mention the information given by Mr Bitches in the hallway behind this. He said, "I know everything." Afterwards, research was followed from the Ministry of Security and Justice, led by a former PG, Mr Van Brummen, and the Minister of Justice's reply came that the Secretary of State did not remember everything. You are aware of the wording used for this purpose. This issue was also discussed and clarified in the Chamber. The Secretary of State had no actual reminder of the amount mentioned. This was stated in the replies and in the letter of 13 June 2014. Last week, one of my fellow Members came here to the Chamber, so it is possible, and that is also possible, to put the question of confidence on the table: an announced motion of censure. This proved to be the case in the second round, as is often the case in this scheme, which is becoming more and more exciting to be eaten less hot than served. At that time, all the political groups in the Chamber simply agreed to a full round of questions with the full time that the Minister wanted to take, although everyone was in some hurry. The answers were followed yesterday and the conclusion was also followed, the most far-reaching conclusion, not to mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u18	I'd like to refresh Mr Samsom's memory. On 13 March 2014, the coalition parties gave the entire opposition a sweep. We were all just big bitches. That was the input of VVD and PvdA. From that moment until last week, no question was asked from the PvdA. Three questions were put by Mr Recourt last week. For a year, the PvdA hasn't been involved. You've turned out to be a political bodyguard for the rulers. You're gonna have to tell the honest story. It is a pity that this has been the case for a year and that you have been so frustrated with the debate for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u19	Apart from the fact that this is just false, why do you need us to ask those questions? You have your own esteemed colleagues. Mr Nispen's predecessor is at least such a valued colleague. He also asked questions and followed his answers. The debate between the Chamber and the Government took place over the past year. If you can record the literal words "the opposition is a bunch of whiners" from the mouth of one of my spokesmen, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u20	For a year, the entire opposition has tried to get the bottom of the stone. Zero questions from your group. Last week, three questions were put by your colleague, after so many facts had already been put on the table. I'm fine with it, but you have to be honest with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u21	Last week, all the groups asked the same question. That was the key question. We're all professionals here. Everyone has asked the question: how can Newsuur produce a receipt or the data and that they are not present at the Ministry? Following that question, the Ministry was further examined, it was found that this information was there and thus it was found that the Chamber was wrongly informed last year. That is the conclusion that has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u22	In the past year there was so much smoke that we almost suffocated in it. It was a search for where the fire was, but that fire was evident from the book about Bitches and utterances of Bitches; it turned out time and time again. That's right, we're not forensic accountants. We are parliamentarians. I believe that the PvdA Group, which had been able to speed up the search for truth with 38 members, did not serve the rule of law. Just now, Mr Samsom said: nothing came out of the conversation between Van Brummen and Teeven. No, Brummen wasn't allowed to speak at all! Does Mr Samsom agree with me that the report by the Justice Department on the discussion between Opstelten and Bitches is still to be sent to the Chamber tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u23	We may be able to discuss further the precise information that has to be sent to the Chamber and the secrecy behind it. I can't judge that from here. Mr Pechtold made the accusation that we would have kept things under wraps here, but that is simply not true. New questions have been asked by the Chamber continuously in the past year, even after the June letter last year. Answers have come to that too. There was no new information from that, because the Ministry insisted wrong, as it turns out now, but sometimes it takes some time for it to find the information. I'm not a forensic accountant. I'm not an ICT expert either; I can't search that computer myself to get that information up. That information came up last weekend. On that basis, the conclusion has simply been drawn. I assume that all the other information around it, the deal itself and the like, will be debated even further if necessary. However, that is not the issue in this debate. The issue in this debate is: on the basis of what information or, rather, on the basis of the lack of information, what information have both directors drawn their conclusions? As far as my group is concerned, that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u24	I think that Mr Samsom's words lack self-confidence. We, as Room, are auditors. De Wit, Van Nispen, Berndsen, Segers: all of them have had almost a day's work to ensure that there would be a debate. In all this time, the PvdA had no questions. Consider what a job that is, what a waste of money. Almost 100 questions were raised by the opposition. The PvdA only had three. The only thing I want to say to Mr Samsom is that it could have been quicker and it should have been quicker; that would have saved the rule of law a lot of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u25	I actually think it's a bit beside the point to start catching each other flying over the question of who has been the most decisive searcher. I assume the price can be paid to one of the MPs, but I also assume that this is a collective responsibility. It's Chamber versus Government. We're talking state law here. In that you also have to keep things a bit clean. It's not a contest between MPs. It is a question of trust: can the Chamber at any time assume that it is properly informed unsolicited and certainly asked? If that is not the case, conclusions must be drawn. That happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u26	Mr. Chairman. To be honest, I had to smile for a moment when Mr Van Ojik accused the Prime Minister that it only functions as a prime minister when there is a wind blow. I don't think the Prime Minister has really experienced that wind in the last four years he's been here. But that aside. Mr. Chairman. I foreseen a solid debate for tonight because of the Cees H. case, a debate in which there would still be many uncertainties because people are still bound by secrecy, a debate with a lot of irritation, including myself. Because you'd like to know what's going on. There's nothing more annoying and disturbing than that you can't get it out of the water after all. Then there was a new fact, yesterday. The first news was that the receipt was above the table. When it comes to facts, we must also make it clear that the receipt did not actually come up. That is why the Minister finally made the decision he made. That is why he has taken his responsibility. Apparently, there was a data system somewhere in a basement that didn't work anymore. That is connected again and on that basis data entry was found in which the confirmation of the amount could be found. That is not a receipt, but with it there was information in the department that could have provided clarity. However, in his letter of June last year, the Minister wrote that there was no such information, that he had done everything possible to look it up and that there were no back-ups of the systems on which that information was present. This combination led to the situation that the information sent to the Chamber turned out to be inadequate, as Mr Van der Staaij put it very nicely. That's what tilted the image. Let that be clear. That is why the Minister has drawn his conclusion. That is also clearly stated in his statement. This changed the light of day. Some speakers have said that this is a matter of fact. One of the facts I have missed in recent times is that the Minister had already clearly stated at an earlier stage, in the letter of June last year, that the amount of 1.25 million which is always coming back here was not meant by him as the transfer that had taken place. That's a fact, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u27	Mr Zijlstra says that the Minister has drawn his conclusion. That is the conclusion he has drawn for the debate and it is therefore important to establish how the conclusion has been drawn. If we can believe what is in today's media, the final decision has been taken in Mr Zijlstra's chamber and the VVD said that this minister is not enforceable. I would like to know from Mr Zijlstra how this was achieved before the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u28	I was not present at the meeting, but as far as my knowledge is concerned, I know that the Prime Minister and the Minister of V and J had a meeting at the Tower together. After that time, the conclusion has been drawn that has also come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u29	Agreed, I will put that question to the Prime Minister in the same way. I noticed that Mr Zijlstra said to the media today that he did not think that Mr Bitch should leave. Apparently, he felt that Mr Opstelten had to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u30	Those are all of those conclusions that you can tie to them. That's not the point. Mr Van Haersma Buma asks whether I felt that Mr Teeven should also go after Mr Opstelten's resignation. I did not think so, because Mr Opstelten took responsibility for letting the Chamber know last June that there was no more information available and that there were no more systems available. It turned out not to be, but the Minister had said so. He took responsibility for that. However, that was separate from Mr Teeven. From that point of view, as far as I am concerned, it was not self-evident that the Secretary of State should resign for the same reason. There was no other reason for this than the state-law automatism. Mr Teeven also had a discussion with the Prime Minister. Thereupon the message came out that he felt that he should resign out of loyalty as well. One has been able to see his statement. Given the situation and everything that has been going on around it, this seems to me to be an understandable matter, which I also respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u31	The conclusion is that the decision to resign was taken in a discussion with the Prime Minister and that the group played no part in that overall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u32	The group acts here and the decision to resign has been taken in the Tower. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u33	Mr Wilders also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u34	Does Mr Zijlstra think that Mr Teeven did not know that the figure was 4.7 million guilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u35	If one thing in the file has already happened too much, it is that people think of everything without knowing. I don't know. The fact is that Mr. Teeven as a prosecutor played a role in that deal. He's bound to secrecy. There's been a lot of speculation about it, but I'm not gonna be a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u36	I ask this question because Mr Zijlstra, as leader of the VVD Group, has said here that Mr Teeven may remain as far as he is concerned. That means that Mr Teeven did not know that the figure was 4.7 million guilders. That is completely unbelievable. The case officer, Mr. Teeven, who negotiated this case with the criminal, of course knows what the amount involved. I can't prove that. However, Mr Zijlstra has spoken to Mr Teeven more often than I have. That is why I am asking Mr Zijlstra whether he ever asked Mr Teeven whether he was talking about 4.7 million or not. Has Mr Zijlstra ever asked him that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u37	Mr Teeven is bound by secrecy and he is very straight in that. He has in no way indicated that this is the case, because he cannot say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u38	Did he deny it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u39	No, because that conversation didn't happen. That's not up to me, and I don't want to go in there either. This is where the case of Cees H. is brought in all the time. That's one thing. However, the resignation of the Minister for Security and Justice has taken place for another reason. I say here in all sincerity that as far as I can see I immediately admit that I do not have all the information there was nothing wrong with that deal at the time. That's what happened with the Superintendent's permission. It is not for me to judge this 15 years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u40	Mr. Roemer? I'll be back with you later, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u41	Then I have a point of order. Mr Zijlstra answers my question and that answer is not correct. I'm allowed to respond to that, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u42	You can do that later. We'll do it in two. You're already taking a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u43	You are now protecting your party mate, Chairman, while this is about the core of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u44	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u45	Yes, you do, because Mr Zijlstra admits here that he did not ask whether it was the 4.7 million guilders. Still, he's letting him down, so that stinks, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u46	Although it's a question of whether it's allowed now, I'm never gonna let myself get away from anything. It's irrelevant. The resignation of the Minister has a very different reason: the Minister has not provided the Chamber with sufficient information. We still don't know all the facts surrounding the deal with Cees H. I do not know whether they will come to light, because those involved, including the Secretary of State in his previous role, are bound by secrecy. But again, that is not why the Minister of Justice has resigned and it cannot be the reason to ask the Secretary of State to go. You can't, because that's bullshit, of course. I understand, with the limited knowledge I have, as it is limited to all of us, that the deal has taken place within the guidelines of the prosecution and with the permission of executives. If I get that all together, I can't draw any conclusions other than that the deal was allowed. Everything around it has been speculated and I'm not participating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u47	Before I give the floor to Mr Roemer, I should like to make a comment myself for the Acts. I really distance myself from what has been said about me before; I am trying to be impartial and honest about this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u48	It's getting weird. So it seems that Mr Zijlstra is only concerned with a receipt. Let me just make it clear to Mr Zijlstra that this is not a receipt, but a bomb that has been transferred to a top criminal through the Justice Department. What happened to the VVD when it comes to dealing with criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u49	I cannot assess the context in which this deal took place and whether there have been cases that may have caused other criminals to get hurt in terms of penalties and so on. I don't know, because the people involved are bound by secrecy, both on the side of Cees H. and on the side of the D.A.'s office. That is the actual situation. The reason why the Minister resigned is because he wrote in a letter last June that he had done everything he could to obtain information, that that information was not present at his ministry and that there were no back-ups. Now it has been found that there were backup systems, old systems, where the information could be found. Then there is insufficient information. Then you take responsibility for that. That's why. You still can't, and neither can I, judge exactly how the actual situation of that deal is. I can only conclude, on the basis of the information I have, that there was permission from executives, within the directives that were in force at the time, and that the deal that was concluded at that time should have apparently been closed. That was not the reason for resigning, and that is why I am not going to speculate about it any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u50	People who send a mistake to the IRS are picked from all sides. It's unbelievable. Mr Zijlstra's contribution concerns whether or not finding the receipt has given the Minister sufficient cause to quit and not the fact that 4.7 million guilders have been transferred through the Justice Department from a Luxembourg account, behind the back of the Tax Office, to a criminal's bank account. At least we know where the VVD stands when it comes to crime-fighting: nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u51	I repeat, I don't know what else was attached to that deal. I don't even know the exact details of the deal. We all do not know this because those involved have a duty of secrecy. I cannot judge whether something very sensible has happened in the context of crime-fighting, as Mr Roemer says. I can judge, with the information I have, but even that is not complete, that it was apparently within the directives. I know the D.A. as an organization now, but I also know then that it is doing everything it can to deal with criminals where they can. This is without prejudice to the fact that this is not the reason why the Minister resigned. That's what matters. That's the fact that it's here. All the speculation around it only contributes to images that cannot be substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u52	I am a little surprised at the ease with which Mr Zijlstra talks about the new information that has become available and the relevance of the questions that are being asked about that deal. It is now a much higher amount than was previously communicated. That's what the minister said: trust me. If a new amount is known, it raises questions as to whether this fits with the agreements that were made at the time. I recognise that it is quite difficult to determine the precise course of action, but I think that we have a responsibility, because this affects the sense of justice of the Dutch people and confidence in the government. We have to do everything we can to see if we can get the bottom stone up. My question is whether Mr Zijlstra is prepared to cooperate and, if necessary, to support an independent investigation on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u53	It depends on what that looks like. It seems very sensible to me that a future govern ment representative should once again shed his or her light on that. I think we all have the irritation that we would like to know what it is like. In a further investigation, too, I think you are subject to the same condition, namely that the two parties concerned have a duty of confidentiality. If we can't break it, I'm still having trouble getting exactly what's behind it. If you can, you won't find me on your way, because I think everyone wants to know what's going on, but I do have my doubts or I can. Before we do anything else, it seems to me that we still need to make that weighting. If it turns out to be positive, you won't find me against you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u54	Further research from last week to Sunday evening, as I have heard, has in any case made available new information, which we did not know before, but on which there were suspicions and which was screened in the media by various parties involved, without showing the receipt. In the end, therefore, information has come up that confirmed that it was a higher amount. I would once again ask Mr Zijlstra not to allow the twilight or the uncertainty that is present to continue. At the moment when independent investigations have been carried out by a solid committee, with a chairman or chair with authority, we may be able to close the file once. If we do not do so now, and if we do not have that uncertainty, then we will indeed continue to speculate, and that is damaging to everyone, including you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u55	Let me be clear, I think I've just tried, but I'm still trying to make it clear that I'd like to get rid of the clarity. In my opinion, there is no one in this Chamber who would like to preserve the clarity. I'm sure the minister... the former minister... he's not here anymore. He wouldn't have wanted that. However, this requires the parties concerned to be able to talk about the totality of the deal. It's not unwillingness, but that's an aspect we have to take with us, because if people aren't allowed to say anything, you can investigate until you weigh an ounce, but nothing comes out. To be honest, I do not have any interest in such investigations, because then we are mainly concerned with something that we cannot invent. If the possibilities exist, I say to Mr Slob, he will be the first to find me on his side to ensure that the ambiguity can be removed. But there are a number of practical obstacles, which I have just appointed. Facts and images get mixed up in this file every now and then. Last June, the Minister sent a letter in which he stated that he did not want to say that the amount paid was 1,25 million guilders, but that he simply did not know what the amount was and that it might still come to light. That last thing happened. That in itself was not enough for the Minister to draw a conclusion. The whole point wasn't that an amount of money came up. The whole point was that the amount came from information which the Minister had said would no longer be there. That was the case belli why he drew his conclusions. We need to keep that fact sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u56	Mr Zijlstra repeated a number of times that the Minister did not resign because of the deal but because of misinformation of the House of Representatives. I think we all know that. But there were two statements yesterday; one of the Secretary of State. It lasted about two minutes. Part of that was devoted to a statement on the deal, namely that that deal had been made for the people and the country and that there was nothing wrong with it. Mr Zijlstra (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. But at the same time he says, there was nothing wrong with that deal. In fact, he agrees with what the former Secretary of State led us to believe last night. It's hard to combine. Or you don't know what's going on because it's classified. Or you know what it's like because you've talked about it with Mr. Teeven, for example, and you can say here: that's a good deal. But both are tricky, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u57	I think I've been extremely clear. I don't know if it was a good deal. I think we all have the information I have here. We don't know everything, but we know that a deal has been made, that there was permission from executives, and that it was within the guidelines of the D.A.'s office that applied at that time. If that situation is there, I'm assuming it's a deal that can be made. But I don't know the contents of the deal. Mr Van Ojik does not know them either. Only a few people know them, and they're bound by secrecy. So I can't say it was a good deal. What Mr Teven has said about this is his appreciation; I respect that. I can only conclude that there was not something going on with that deal that led to the resignation of a ruler. That's the situation. But I don't know the contents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u58	We do not know much about the deal yet. We know why that is. Truth hasn't been found for far too long. We know things too. We know, for example, that this deal was concluded first and was only then submitted to the College of Attorneys General. We also know that one of the attorney generals, Mr Steenhuis, subsequently said that, among other things, the reconstruction of Nieuwsuur..................................................................................................................................................................................... I happen to know. I'm not very expert in this field, but that's two things I know. That is what Mr Zijlstra knows, I assume. He could not have heard from Mr Teeven that it was a good deal, because Mr Teeven has also held secrecy against Mr Zijlstra. I therefore ask Mr Zijlstra once again: how can he say, with what he knows and what he does not know, that a good deal has been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u59	I don't know the contents of the deal. So I don't know if it was a good deal or whether any of the criminals got caught extra hard. I don't know. That is the consequence of the fact that there is secrecy. None of us know that. Only a few people know that and, again, they have secrecy. I note that the executives have approved it. It fits within the structures of the D.A.'s office. If another supervisor then says that he would not have approved it if it had been submitted to him, then I think it is easy to say so in the direction of that person. The supervisor who was in office at the time approved it. If the person in question, I will not mention the name, because he is not present and can not defend himself, say he would not have given permission if it had been for him at that time, then it is easy. If I give my consent to something, Mr Van Ojik may also say that he would never have given his consent, and then we are both in our rights. So that's too easy for me. The supervisor who was in office gave his consent. This has been a successful process. I do not know the content, but there is nothing wrong with the deal and that was therefore no reason for the Minister to resign. The reason for this was the fact that there was information that could have been unlocked a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u60	Very briefly, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u61	I'll be very brief. It is not a question of being an attorney general who was not at the time at the time, but it is a question of saying 'what' and I think that is in fact the fact that the closed deal was in breach of the rules in force at the time. We can just check that out. We can just check that it wasn't allowed outside the IRS to make a deal. That's a fact or it's not a fact. If it is not true, what the person concerned has said is incorrect. If it's true, it hasn't been a good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u62	Your question is clear, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u63	I repeat what I just said. Whoever was in charge at that time has given the permission. So the deal that the district attorney has put forward has simply been accepted. That's how it works. The stick is then further away. There is no way of suggesting that the Minister has resigned because that deal should not have been concluded. That is not the case either. The fact is that the Minister has resigned because information has emerged that could have been unlocked a year ago. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. Because none of us can access that classified information, it will remain a mystery. I think everyone would like to know what's going on, because this is gradually the biggest mystery around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u64	Does Mr Zijlstra think it is right for Secretary of State Teeven to resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u65	As I have just said, as far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State did not have to resign on the basis of the resignation of the Minister. I wouldn't have asked him. However, he himself decided to resign out of solidarity with the minister he was working with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u66	It was a balancing of the Secretary of State who apparently knew everything in his old position. Mr Zijlstra has just said, I quote him, that we all want to know what is going on. He also said: we should not speculate any further, because I do not know everything either. That goes for all of us. I therefore repeat the question that has just been raised in the Chamber: why does Mr Zijlstra say that a new ruler must decide whether an investigation is to be carried out? I believe that there should be an external investigation, apart from the ruler, precisely in order to protect the new ruler not to be dragged into this swamp too. My question to Mr Zijlstra is therefore clear: does he support an external investigation in which the facts are put on the table or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u67	The question that Mr Slob has just asked was also clear and I have already answered it. For every investigation, we must first have a clear understanding of the issue of secrecy, because if we are going to investigate something where we keep running into the same walls, namely that the parties concerned are not allowed to say anything, then we can investigate for years, but then that is a waste of effort. If the investigation has a chance of success, I honestly do not care whether it is internal or external. Perhaps it would be wiser to have an external investigation. I absolutely want to think about that. However, it starts with step 1: let's first determine whether an investigation makes sense. If the secrecy for both parties is such that we can't avoid it, we can examine the nuts, but then we're not gonna find out what's going on. You are frustrated about this, as I am, but a rule of law works in such a way that if parties are bound by secrecy, we should not break it in a way that violates the rule of law. If you can do something here, you'll find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u68	The investigation of the Davids Committee was an investigation into the participation of the Netherlands in a war. In the end, all those involved were heard, no matter what the obligation of confidentiality was; even international matters could emerge. At the time, we needed 17 debates with the Balkenende IV cabinet and it was finally decided that everything had to be put on the table. I also feel Mr Zijlstra's attitude: yes, everything must be on the table. However, I would not like to set a threshold for it now in the sense of: let us examine it first. An external investigation can simply go through these kinds of deals to see what happened, including, for example, the parliamentary inquiry into the IRT affair. I am now in favour of this and Mr Slob has also argued in favour of it, assuming that he will table a motion on it. I also hope that Mr Zijlstra will make that motion superfluous by saying: we are going to make sure that those thresholds are reduced and we are going to ensure that this dossier from 2000 is finally buried.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u69	I am not opposed to this at all, but before we can actually decide and agree to it, we must realise that this is something different from the previous investigations; we are dealing in criminal law with the rights of both parties that result from it. You can't just walk over that as a parliament. And I'm not going to, but if we had a constellation with which we could get the data up, you'll find me by your side. I do not think, however, that you can just walk over agreements that have been reached in a state of law, and I also hear you often talking about it between a particular party, in this case the State, and a party that is on the other side of the line. I'm not gonna do that, but if we can work around that, you'll find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u70	I'm gonna try one more time. It is not just a question of whether or not the deal should have been closed. That is the defence of Mr Zijlstra all the time, but that is not all that matters. The point is that a minister resigned because he said last year that it was 1,25 million guilders, and now it appears that it was 4.7 million guilders. It's incredibly relevant if the Secretary of State knew that. If he knew that, he should have told the minister. Otherwise, the Secretary of State has called the Minister. I am not a political fan of Mr Opstelten, but I want to know for sure what happened. Does Mr Zijlstra exclude that Mr Teeven knew that the amount that Minister Opstelten mentioned in the Chamber last year was not correct and that he did not tell us? He should have. That is why I ask Mr Zijlstra: have you ever discussed this with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u71	Mr Wilders' first assumption is already wrong. He says it is contrary to the ruling on the 1.25 million guilders. That statement has already been debated in this House and has already been corrected by the Minister in the letter of June last year. In that letter, the Minister made a clear statement: if the impression has been given that an amount of 1,25 million guilders has been paid, I would like to remove it, because I do not know what amount has been paid. The first argument is therefore not correct; the rest of the questions are irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u72	Then I do not understand why Mr Zijlstra thinks that Minister Opstelten should resign. He himself says that the Minister has not misinformed the Chamber. It is either one or two: either he shares the opinion of the Chamber that she has been misinformed, and that is where the sanction comes from or he feels that the Chamber has not been misinformed and that there is nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u73	It helps in a debate like this if people stick to the facts. The fact is that in June last year the Minister took away the picture that 1,25 million guilders had been paid. He wrote a letter to take away that suggestion. The letter says: I don't know; something may even come up; I don't know. In that same letter, he indicated that he did everything he could to get information out of the water, but that there were no data systems or back-ups available on which that information could be available. It's about that last fact. After yesterday we have to find that there were such systems and that information on the amount of the money was also available on these systems. That is the fact about which the Minister has informed the Chamber imprecisely. This is separate from the debate on the amount, however much Mr Van Haersma Buma wants to see it different. If Newsuur's receipt had surfaced, the amount of the receipt would have shown up, but it would not have come from the Ministry. The crucial point is not the discussion about the amount of 1,25 million guilders, but the fact that the information did come from the Ministry and that the information was on a system that the Minister said was no longer there a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u74	Mr Zijlstra is really getting away with it. Why would the former Minister of Justice, who spoke here last March about 1,25 million guilders, really say he nuanced this a few months later? Has Mr Zijlstra ever wondered? Did he ever ask the minister that? He never told the room. Could it be that Mr Teeven was the one who knew that the amount was wrong and perhaps later told? Couldn't it be that Mr. Teeven, the Minister of Justice, I have just said, said that he knew that it was a different amount, but the Minister didn't or didn't inform you too late? Has Mr Zijlstra, as leader of the VVD Group, ever asked Mr Teven? I've asked that question three times now, and I'll stop, but I can't get an answer. That alone is suspicious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u75	There is nothing suspicious about that, because I was not part of that discussion and did not have that conversation with Mr Teeven at all. I think I'd already reported that. I am pleased that Mr Wilders now acknowledges that the Minister had already taken back that 1.25 million guilders in the June letter. That is not the reason why this has been achieved. The rest is speculated; I keep saying that. Could it have been that? Yeah, there's a lot possible, but we don't know that. That's because of the secrecy of those involved. We can't break through that. That is frustrating, perhaps most for the former executives themselves, who were not allowed to talk about it. Maybe they would have had a hell of a story. The only thing is that we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u76	What do you mean, "secretcy"? In April, Minister Opstelten stood there in the Chamber and said: "750,000 guilders went to the State. (...) Then 1,250,000 guilders went to the account designated by Cees H. Then one also sees the bet. It's complicated, too, I must say. A small 50% of the sum finally seized has been collected by the State through the Public Prosecutor's Office. I want to tell you that as a fact." Then he went on and talked about a house in Belgium that had been confiscated, which would influence this again. If there was a deal, all the details were put down in April; only those were the wrong details! The Minister said: these are the facts. Is it that amount? Is it more than 4.7 million guilders, as it turns out? Mr Zijlstra cannot say that we do not know anything. No, we only know conflicting things! The Minister has just been giving wrong information here, in detail! That is why I am asking Mr Zijlstra: do you insist that all this is covered by the obligation of confidentiality? No! We know it from all sides now. Lawyers are fucking on TV shows with receipts and show them to the host! About everyone in the Netherlands knows what's going on, except us!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u77	If that were the case, it would be a lot easier, because then the rest of the Netherlands could tell us. It is true that we do not know the content of the deal. Why is the deal closed? What were the consequences? What happened after that? We don't know that, because there's secrecy on that. The amount is nuanced in the letter of June last year. It made it clear that we did not know what the amount was. The fact that the Minister informed the Chamber imprecisely is the reason why we have this debate, because that is why he has resigned. But that was done on the basis of the information he provided last June, not on the basis of what was said in March and taken back in June. This was discussed extensively with the Chamber. At that time, the Minister concluded that it was not sensible. Everyone thought he could get through, but after what happened yesterday, he came to the conclusion that he couldn't get through now. I respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u78	I have one more question for Mr Zijlstra. Does he agree that there should be a meeting with former Secretary of State, Bitches? We cannot do that now, because he is no longer in office, but in an independent investigation it could happen. Does Mr Zijlstra agree with us that this is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u79	We always come to the same point, because you have asked this question earlier about an investigation that needs to be carried out. I have already indicated that confidentiality is one of the issues that is important. I can imagine that the former Secretary of State would very much like to tell us what happened, because he may have done something very good. The only thing is I don't know. That applies to you, to me, and that also applies to the questions you are asking. The former Secretary of State is bound by secrecy. So you can talk to him, but he's bound by secrecy. Unless we can work around that, which is quite difficult in a rule of law such as the Netherlands, we have a serious obstacle there. If we can overcome them, it's fine. I think that perhaps the former Secretary of State would like to be one of the first to tell us what has been going on, partly in view of the way in which he expressed himself yesterday very strongly. There was a clear emotion behind that, which I think was very serious. The frustration about not being allowed to express is therefore not only with you and me, but also with him, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u80	I asked this question for the following reason. Last year, when Minister Opstellen and his officials themselves failed to find the receipt or at least a confirmation of the amount paid, when he had failed to do so, he asked an external person to do so. That was Master Van Brummen. The Secretary of State didn't allow him to speak to the Secretary of State. The reason was not that the Secretary of State should not speak and was bound by confidentiality. The reason was that the Minister said: I am responsible, I am the one who is taking this case on me now and we keep the Secretary of State at bay. So that conversation didn't take place at the time. I think it would be very good if we could just have a conversation with Secretary of State Teeven, independently, if only so that Mr Teeven can talk his emotions and say more than the short sentences he has said about this in the past year, so that everything that can be said about this can be told. That hasn't happened in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u81	Former Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u82	I believe that Mr Pechtold has put a question to the Prime Minister. If Mr Slob does not mind, I am waiting for his answer. Mr Pechtold suggested that a discussion had taken place. Let's wait for that answer before we take this horde.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u83	What do you mean, "suggested"? I simply refer to the replies of former Minister Opstelten of 30 October 2014, in which he writes: "... that, of course, I myself spoke with the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who was then responsible prosecutor and that this conversation is involved in the findings of the investigation of the prosecution. As mentioned at the time..." So he asked him himself. Instead of allowing Mr Van Brummen, the researcher, to speak with the Secretary of State, the Minister himself did so. It has come to my attention that this is a discussion report. I don't think it's a good thing we're gonna be asking for another year. I have just asked that question, and I now hear that I am doing it together with Mr Zijlstra. I would like to receive that report in response to the Prime Minister. About the entire state's attorney's office was sitting right there. There's a few missing now, so I'm assuming they're getting it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u84	I have said before that assumptions in the debate often lead to images that do not necessarily reflect reality. Mr Pechtold has asked a question and I await the answer to that question, like the rest of the Chamber. Then we'll see what we can do after that. There is a lot of uncertainty and therefore a lot of irritation. That's the situation. If we can get more clarity, we need to be clear. This also depends on how criminal law works in this country and on the secrecy involved. I would also like to say that the Netherlands has lost two very capable leaders. Setting up the National Police, strengthening the position of victims, falling crime rates; they are results these former executives should be proud of. I would also like to thank them for their commitment and their results. It is a sad thing that they have resigned, not only for them personally, but also for the country. That is why it is also important to find suitable successors to continue the policies that have been put in place. No matter how high the waves are, it's time for us to move on. We'll keep our course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u85	Mr. Chairman. Keep your course, yeah. As far as I am concerned, the situation that has arisen following the resignation of Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State, Mr Teeven, is centred on the reliability and credibility of politics. That goes beyond the moment of resignation yesterday. That was just the end result of a lingering case, a bad governance culture. How does the Prime Minister intend to turn administrative culture of diving, turning and ego protection into a necessary, liberal, open culture? Of course there will be new rulers. As far as I am concerned, especially in this spring time, there is no need to go ice over one night. The land is not served by new rulers sinking directly through the ice. However, I hope for new rulers with a free-minded legal commitment, not linear super law-and-order types. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u86	Mr. Chairman. For years the "Hakkelaar" case has kept us in suspense. How much criminal money can you keep if you make a deal with the Justice Department? How transparent is Justice with such deals when informing the Chamber? The perpetrators have now escaped through the back door. Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven have chosen not to answer, but to leave. A brief statement at a press conference and no form of accountability to Parliament. My group deeply regrets that. We will have to have a debate today with the man who, last Saturday, Minister Opstelten described in the AD as "one of the best people we have." The question is whether he meant that he is one of the best people that the VVD has, or one of the best people that the cabinet counts. Earlier, the Prime Minister called the Verheijen issue "blowed up." All this justifies the question of whether the Prime Minister's ability to assess is appropriate to his position and whether the importance of the VVD and the fulfilment of the premiership have not become too mixed up. Confusion is the central theme of this debate. It is incomprehensible that the ministries are missing crucial data, whether they are filming from Srebrenica, talking about conversations between a VVD Secretary of State and a VVD Senator in a corruption investigation, or about copies of a deal with a criminal whose Secretary of State had challenged a number of journalists with a bravure with the statement "I know everything, but I'm not saying anything." In the context of popular rethinking, the Minister of Justice reflected that attitude and said over and over again: I say everything, but I know nothing. This led journalists from Nieuwsuur to look for the information they could not find in the department. They came surprisingly fast with results. It therefore seems appropriate to reconsider the cuts in public service broadcasting. Does the Prime Minister perhaps feel the need to provide additional resources to public service broadcasting, so that his staff can also look into the backgrounds of that lost conversation between Mr.Teven and Mr.Van Reij and possibly the two lost photographs from Srebrenica? It could greatly enhance the appreciation of public service broadcasting and confidence in politics. How is it possible that the Tax Administration is kept out of a deal with a criminal, causing the Dutch state to lose between 3 and 6 million in tax revenue? How can it be that in such a sensitive matter the bank statement of the secret transaction is lost on the side of the ministry and not on the side of the criminal with whom the settlement was reached? Does this not give rise to a blackmailable position for both the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice? How long has this blackmailable position lasted? What measures have been taken at the Ministry of Security and Justice to prevent the recurrence of such unacceptable abuses? Why does the Prime Minister think that he can continue with a cabinet that was heavily committed to law and order, but one of his best ministers has slipped him? Has he considered offering the entire cabinet's resignation to the King? I look forward to the Prime Minister's answers with interest, and I also believe that the bio-industry needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u87	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber must be able to rely blindly on the word of a minister. That confidence, however, is an illusion. That is very serious, especially when it comes to our first servant and keeper of the country's security and the rule of law. Previous groups have already discussed the technique and the many important details surrounding the deal with Cees H. There are a number of points where there is still no clarity. I am therefore happy to support the many questions that have been asked. My contribution will be limited to a number of observations and key questions that are important for 50PLUS. Now that the dust of the sudden resignation of the rulers descends, there remains a shattering image of the Ministry of Security and Justice. How can it be that the data didn't come up for a year, while Nieuwsuur managed to do it? If the officials in the ministry are loyal to their minister 100%, I ask the Prime Minister. 50PLUS does not find it very strong that the rulers have chosen to hold it up and no longer to be held accountable in the political arena. I ask the Prime Minister whether he has until the last minute given full confidence to the Minister of Security and Justice and, if so, on the basis of which he did so. How, and at what times, did the Prime Minister actively ensure himself that the communication between the rulers was good and that the voucher investigation was carried out thoroughly? What was the coordinating role in this last year? Hasn't the Prime Minister ever been concerned about the untraceable information? It is still unclear to me whether the deal was legitimate under the rules in force at the time. Can the Prime Minister explain that? Does that legitimacy also apply to keeping the Tax Administration out of play? Was that allowed? With the deal Cees H. also enjoyed a very nice interest on his capital. Gold that same interest rate but as calculation rate for pensions, I guess. How can we sell all this to the people at home? They blame us and they think: I am taken from all sides by the government, but the extent of a deal with a criminal is swept under the carpet for years as much smaller than he really was. I also remember the Secretary of State's clear statement for the camera. He said to a reporter, you don't know everything, I do. Either you know everything, or your memory leaves you in the lurch. It's either one or the other. So one of the two claims is not true. 50PLUS still finds it unbelievable that the memory of such a major case, even for Mr Teeven in his role as prosecutor, has gone away in essential respects. He's been on the case for years, hasn't he? My group is once again asking for a clear, and now sufficient, explanation. The controversial deal with Cees H. should have led to catching a much bigger fish, namely Johan V., alias de Hakkelaar. But what has that deal really gotten us and what's it gotten us? What about the seizure of Johan V's assets of over 100 million? I find it regrettable that the Minister of Security and Justice has chosen not to answer in the Chamber. For 50PLUS today, authority, credibility and confidence in the Prime Minister is at stake. We are therefore eagerly awaiting his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u88	Thank you. This brings to an end the first term of office. The Prime Minister needs some time to prepare for his response. It's 6:15, so let's combine that suspension with dinner break. I see that Mr Pechtold wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u89	Mr. Chairman. I assume that it is now known whether we are able to send the report of the discussion between the Minister and the Secretary of State to the Chamber during that dinner break. I do not think it is right for us to wait until the end of the suspension, because I would also like to read the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u90	I understand you're saying that, Mr. Pechtold. I will pass on the stenogram of this part of the meeting to the cabinet. I cannot answer your question at the moment. I'll let Members know as soon as possible during the break if that report comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u91	Now, let's suspend for one minute. Then a note can be sent from the box there, in the back of the room where the officials are sitting, to box K. Then the Prime Minister in the microphone that does work can tell us what is going on and then we know what we need to prepare for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u92	I see to the Prime Minister that he can respond to that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u93	I have been informed that there has been no report of the discussion between Mr Opstelten and Mr Teeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u94	Thank you. No, Mr Pechtold, we are not going to have a debate on this right now. We'll save that for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u95	I'll resume the meeting. I would ask Members to take their seats. We're gonna start on the first term of government. Before we begin, I give the floor to Mr Pechtold on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u96	Mr. Chairman. I just asked for a report of a discussion between the Secretary of State and the Minister. I hear there hasn't been any of this, but there has been a conversation. I know that there is a report of the Secretary of State's discussion with the Director-General on this issue. Let me put it so broadly that I would like to receive the report from the Secretary of State's talks with others in the department, politically or administratively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u97	On this subject, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u98	On this subject indeed. Otherwise, it would get too many screenshots. I would like that report or those reports, to my best knowledge, to be distributed in the context of the Van Brummen investigation, but it may have been broader as well, during the reply of the Minister. As far as I am concerned, this does not require suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u99	I can answer that there is no report of a discussion between the Director-General and the Secretary of State. There's only a personal note from the Director-General of his interview with the Secretary of State. I find it complicated to make such a personal note public. I would suggest that, with my answer, I get to the question of how to proceed rather quickly. I would like to make a constructive proposal, including how we can deal with this confidential personal note, so that personal notes from officials in the Netherlands, who put those personal notes in their own files, can also be made public immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u100	I propose, Mr Pechtold, in view of the Prime Minister's remark, that we wait for that point. I'm sure this is in the broader question of an investigation... you don't agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u101	No, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the term "personal note" does not exist when an official in office has a conversation with a Secretary of State. It's not a conversation at someone's house or on a terrace about which you write something in your diary. It has been in the context of a rather heavy investigation. If any notes have been made, I can remember from a ministry that this is happening, which are then included in the file, they are no longer personal notes from that moment on, but cases that are simply covered by this case. If there's nothing special in it, we can just see it. When it is said that it cannot go outside, the suspicion of the Chamber increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u102	It's a note of a conversation that's not in the file. On the basis of that note, the Director-General Van Brummen, who conducted the investigation at the request of the Minister for Security and Justice, Opstelten, informed about his findings in that discussion. Van Brummen has noted that there is no actual determination of the amount of money that would be involved. These are Van Brummen's conclusions. I do not think it is right to make such a personal note of an official public. I shall now come up with a constructive suggestion that, perhaps not this evening, but in the course of resolving the whole issue, this note should also be given a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u103	Then I suggest we just start with the answer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u104	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by saying something about the order. I think it is right that I should say a number of things about the AD interview, quoted by a number of Members, concerning my comments about Minister Opstelten in relation to the matter as he is before us today. I would then like to turn to the question of 'the further', in the sense of temporary replacement, and to the question of why Blok is going to do so. Then I would like to turn to Mr Pechtold's question of how we should proceed with the task of a new minister on the further handling of this whole dossier. I want to include in this the conversational note we were just talking about. Finally, I would like to comment on some of the questions that have been asked about what exactly happened, but more specifically on the details. I want to do it along those four lines. I shall begin with the issue of my remarks this weekend that Opstelten has a strong story and that I support the Minister. I still find both. My comment in the Algemeen Dagblad concerns the quality, functioning and integrity of Ivo Opstelten. That was before last weekend, which was last weekend, and that goes up to and including today. In my opinion, that will be the case for a very long time to come. I hope he's been among us for a long time and in good health. The question then arises as to exactly what happened in that file. My observation was indeed that Ivo Opstelten... I said that literally, somewhat populist, a bit in spoken language.. has a good story. The reasons for this are as follows. There's three things going on. First of all... As is well known, a settlement was reached on 17 August 2000. It's approved and signed. That's step one. Second. In April 2002, Minister Korthals replied to questions from the Chamber on this issue. In replying to this, he addressed a number of aspects in detail and defended a number of aspects. That did not lead to a debate in the Chamber at the time. There was therefore an approved settlement in 2000. In 2002 questions were asked to Korthals. Third. Last March, the demand came up for exactly how much money it is and what it is exactly. The Minister, who has now resigned, has tried to reconstruct the whole matter, from A to Z. One mistake was made in that reconstruction. This is a remark in the letter sent by the Minister on 3 June last, which states: "There were no back-ups available either. As a result, data from before 2002 are no longer accessible." Then it turned out this weekend, Sunday, when the ministry on behalf of the minister again tried to retrieve data, that the receipt didn't just show up. I have always said: when the receipt appears, it is an interesting fact in itself, but in my view it is not a politically relevant fact. It became extremely politically relevant because it turned out that the receipt didn't just show up anywhere, but precisely in the systems that Opstelten had written to the Chamber in June 2014 that it wasn't there. Then it appeared that the information from Nieuwsuur, including the codes, was not necessary for that purpose. Once all this was clear, he had to note that this information could have been removed from the system last summer and that it was thus too late and not properly informed to the Chamber. I would like to summarize it and, of course, I am interested in all the reactions to it, especially those of Mr Pechtold. First of all... My comments on Opstelten are about the driver. They stood before, during and after the weekend. I'm not taking back a word of that. Second. My remark that the Minister has a good story refers to the whole complex and how he handled it. Third. Something went wrong at one point. That's serious. That is that the Minister misinformed the Chamber last summer in reconstructing the facts at an important, relevant point. In doing so, he not only misinformed the Chamber, which is serious in itself, but, as he himself said yesterday, he was able to provide the information much later than possible afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u105	What I still don't understand is that the Nieuwsuur section had the exact amount, the bank number of which, the bank number to which, the file number and the designation, without the old system being reopened at that time. So my thesis would be: yes, it was in that old system, that digital cemetery that was apparently being rebuilt, but apparently it was also somewhere else in the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as was heard in Nieuwsuur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u106	Yeah, it's true that Newshour says he has the information from the department. The fact is that that information didn't come out of the department until last Sunday night. If that information had come from somewhere after the broadcast of Newsuur, perhaps by using the codes that Nieuwsuur showed in the picture, there would still have been a debate about it, but in my political opinion it would not have been politically deadly. It became politically deadly because it turned out that eventually the information came from files about which Opstelten wrote to the Chamber in June 2014 that they were no longer available or were not accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u107	It was a little more careful. None of us knew that these systems could seem to be recreated and that it was in there. Newshour will not have been able to do so, because I understood that even an astronomical amount was needed to get it done by an expert this weekend when it was known to the journalist earlier. That journalist says we should trust him on that... that it was a source within the Ministry and a source within the Public Prosecutor's Office. I hear my phone ringing. They're probably calling me right now to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u108	To verify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u109	I ask the Prime Minister if he is interested with me in the question of how the data from the ministry were accurately told to the journalist to the penny, without the old prehistoric system having been brought back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u110	Sure, that's relevant, too. I come to that in part three when I talk about the mandate I intend to give to the new minister. These are relevant questions and they need to be answered. We cannot answer them now. We can only see that additional information has emerged this weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u111	I understand less and less that the Prime Minister has not realised last weekend that there would be a result from the investigation that went a different direction than he thought. He now talks afterwards about what became known on Sunday, but Saturday in the AD and also Friday at the weekly conversation, the minister said that if there was a receipt, wherever it came from, he wouldn't find that interesting. We would know the amount, but it didn't matter. The Prime Minister made it very clear this weekend that it didn't matter what happened and that they weren't in danger. My point is that the Prime Minister should have seen right at the time that there was a risk and that he should have communicated much more clearly that he was on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u112	I refer to my previous reply. In my opinion, Mr Opstelten made an extreme effort, both last summer and again, encouraged by the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, to get the facts out of the table. He may be given credit for the fact that, fifteen years after the settlement was reached and thirteen years after the last attention was sought in the Chamber, he made an attempt to reconstruct the whole matter. In the letter of June 2014 it appears to be very unfortunate that there is a wording on the conclusion of a certain search route, while last Sunday it appeared that precisely that information came out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u113	The Prime Minister now states that he eventually came to the conclusion that the Minister was not enforceable. I asked Mr Zijlstra where that decision was taken earlier. After all, we cannot control that. Has it finally been concluded in the Tower that this did not go on and that the Minister had to resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u114	Mr Opstelten and I, of course, looked at the whole complex of facts yesterday and found together that it was a political mortal sin that the Chamber had been misinformed last year and that, in addition to misinformation, the Chamber had not received information for about nine months which could have been released from the system last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u115	On Wednesday Newsuur came out with the message. When it appeared that the whole story was messing around, wasn't right and that the Chamber would have been misinformed. Yet on Friday the Prime Minister says in the media that the minister has a good story and the full confidence and you name it. Then you're looking away, laughing away, and then you're holding the minister's hand over your head when you know it's not right? Why did he choose the tactics to protect a minister like that, when he already knew from several sides that the story wasn't right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u116	Let me put my reality next to Mr Roemer's. Mr Opstelten has seen the situation in the last 15 or 15 years. thirteen years, depending on whether you take 2000 as the starting point or 2002, conscientiously and with a lot of attention tried to reconstruct that case. He has come a long way, but was certainly not ready, because many things were not yet available. This leads to a number of questions that we need to pass on to the new Minister of Security and Justice in order to find out more. It concluded routes which were considered to have been considered exhaustively. What was not foreseeable, but what unfortunately turned out to be Sunday, was that one of the closed routes still provided the information. Hence the political situation that has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u117	That is not the beginning of an answer to my question. It is an answer to a question that has not been asked. On Wednesday it became clear that the facts were different, with number, name, date and account number. Everything became clear. However, on Friday, the Prime Minister will laugh away and play down the road and say that it is a good story. He even said: if we find a receipt, what does it matter to me, what difference does it make? Then you've made an incredible error of judgment and judgment. Why doesn't the Prime Minister just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u118	I do not know what Mr Roemer is basing himself on. The facts as they are known are as follows. In March of last year, figures were mentioned in the debate, which the Minister subsequently stated, in a letter to the Chamber in June, that, to the extent that the amounts resulting from previous reports from 2000 and 2002 were mentioned, also look at their handling in the Chamber then, at least to the answer to the questions raised by then Minister Korthals, it was not said that those amounts were transferred. In other words, last June, too, it was politically clear that there was no clarity as to the size of the amount. So there were two things, which I also found interesting to know but which were politically irrelevant in the sense of the constitutional responsibility in the relationship with the Chamber. Firstly, what is the exact size of the amount? In the end, we all want to know. Secondly, is that receipt still available? It went wrong because in the end these facts came up from a system that Opstelten himself had said that the route had been closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u119	I don't quite understand this line of defense. Why is it so concentrated on this system, which is now suddenly accessible and which was not before? A movement is actually being made away from the content. The content is that the minister in the Chamber did speak about numbers. I have the stenography report with me. He even said: these are the facts. Of course, later he sent a letter in which he started to put that into perspective, but still: there has been talk of amounts that are of a different order than the amount that is now on the table. It makes sense, then, for the House to want to know more about this and to ask you why you said it last Friday. I would just like to say in my own words that it would not be relevant for the decisions to be taken if those facts were on the table. Then we see that these facts are on the table, and what is the Minister of Security and Justice doing on the basis of these new facts? He's resigning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u120	The complex of facts now before us, including the political interpretation, is as follows. Unfortunately, yesterday's Minister of Security and Justice resigned, following the broadcast of Newsuur, he started to reconstruct a situation from 2000/2002. He then mentioned in the debate in March amounts which might have been the same as the amounts transferred. That is what he has also nuanced in that debate, at various times. In his letter of June last year, he informed the Court that these amounts were not deemed to have been notified to the Court of Justice of the amounts paid. There was no political objection to this at the time. So the facts are as follows. We don't know how much money was transferred. We don't know if there's a receipt. Both things we would like to know, because they are interesting for the truth finding and the reconstruction of the situation in 2000. Where does it go wrong? It goes wrong because he made a mistake in that letter in retrospect, namely by saying: one of the routes I am looking for to find out what happened, namely the backup system, is closed. Last Sunday it turned out that that system could be rebooted, restarted. They then came out of that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u121	The Prime Minister repeats what he said before. So he insists that the jumping point has been that that information has now come on the table and that it should have been there at the time. However, he does not discuss the content of the information. That is now being pushed aside again. I'm really surprised about that. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: do you take over the words of the Secretary of State that there is nothing wrong with that deal? It now seems that he is also going along with that story in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u122	No, I can't do that. I can only establish, on the basis of the deal that was settled in 2000, that the deal was allowed. I refer to the debate on the interruption which a number of spokesmen had with group chairman Zijlstra in the first term of the Chamber. I'll join him. Whether it's a good deal or not, I can't judge, simply because we don't know exactly which deal has been made. I don't want to know that as Prime Minister either. The Public Prosecutor's Office has the possibility to conclude this type of deal within the applicable rules. I would also like to draw your attention to Mr Van der Staaij's contribution in this respect. In doing so, I also answer one of the questions from the Socialist Party's point of view. Is that deal okay or not? It must comply with the rules of the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the approval of the appropriate authorities within the Public Prosecutor's Office. So we can answer the question if the deal was allowed. The answer is yes. Is it a good deal? I do not think the appreciation of that is politically relevant, because it is really up to the public prosecutor himself. So I can't answer that question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u123	Until last Sunday, the minister and the cabinet lived on the assumption that the receipt could not be found on the amount of the sum. For almost a year we knew that there was uncertainty and questions about the amount of money, including in the House of Representatives. And for four or five days we knew that there was information at Nieuwsuur, confirmed by other parties involved, that it was not 1.25 million guilders but 4.75 million guilders. I imagine that you, also as Prime Minister, besides looking for the receipt, are also doing other activities, and say to the Secretary of State, for example: "Oh, could it have been another amount?" So we can fix ourselves on that receipt, but there are a lot of other ways to find out whether the amount initially mentioned by the Minister of Justice was correct or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u124	There were two investigations last summer, as the Chamber knows. That was the investigation into Van Brummen's receipt and research. He's spoken to a total of 20 people. Van Brummen's investigation led to a lack of clarity as to the exact amount of the amounts actually transferred. All these parliamentary questions have been answered several times by the Chamber. Then Opstelten continued to look for the reconstruction, even more encouraged by Nieuwsuur, because of course we all wanted to know what was going on. That in itself is relevant, but in my opinion should not touch the trust rule. Until it was found that the source of this information had previously been closed by Opstelten himself, in a letter dated June last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u125	Indeed, I have seen in the answers to the parliamentary questions that the parties involved, including the State Secretary, were not sufficiently aware of the actual financial settlement, in order to be sure. That's in the answer several times. This "actual financial settlement" can still be a lot. Does this also mean that during that whole year of uncertainty the former Secretary of State never said to the Prime Minister or to the Minister: well, it was more than the 1.25 you were talking about in the Chamber? I can hardly imagine that, which is why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u126	I myself asked the Secretary of State at any time whether he could agree with Van Brummen's report and the factual observations made in it. The answer to that was yes. Furthermore, the truth finding was, of course, delegated by Opstelten to Van Brummen on that particular point. Look, 2 million, 5 million or 10 million; amounts have their meaning. They had become politically relevant because at least the impression had been given in March 2014 that Opstelten had mentioned hard amounts on the question of exactly what had been transferred. He corrected that in his letter in June. The Chamber has accepted that, because Stelten has not been sent away; he has remained seated. There are no political consequences. In other words, that political fact was justified. What remained, then, was the question: exactly how much is it? That's interesting to know and for that you need: the height and the receipt. It went wrong when it turned out that the receipt originated from a system he believed to have also written to the Chamber that this had been closed as a search direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u127	I am beginning to be increasingly amazed at the Prime Minister's defence. What he is doing is making it very small, which ultimately is the cause of the resignation, namely that after the Minister had said that he could not find something, technically it turned out that he could. If that is the whole substance, I think the outcome of the talk at the Tower could have been: you rulers in the Department of Justice don't have to leave for this. That might have been a case here. But where's the problem? For a year, the Prime Minister has been dragging his feet and saying stupid things through the weekend by this Prime Minister, a situation in which the Minister had become totally untenable even in the event of such a small extra error. I'm asking the Prime Minister to reflect on that. How could he have let the direction go so that something that was investigated by the Chamber on content and could have led to something ended with the explosion which led to the resignation of the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u128	In the summer of last year there was a political conclusion to the question of exactly how much had been transferred, at least to what extent the Minister of Security and Justice had provided information on this matter to the Chamber. That was saved by the Minister in the summer. He also said that he regretted that this might have given the impression that the sums he had mentioned in March were also the sums that had been transferred, because this was not the case. In fact, he said that, and that was later appointed a few times, we did not know exactly how much money had been transferred. If there had been a receipt of 2 million, 5 million or 10 million guilders, that would have been relevant, but in my opinion, it would not have been a reason for this minister's resignation in a state-of-the-art manner, because he would have been interested in the figures. Of course, this is always a weighting, a taste issue, because you can never paint it completely black and white. That's one. Two is the following: we do want to know. He was doing a reconstruction. It showed that he was trying to figure it out, but he couldn't. He tried that himself and Van Brummen interviewed a number of other people. Then Nieuwsuur came up with last Wednesday's broadcast, now almost a week ago. That broadcast led the minister to look again, with even more energy. Then the amount was found in a file he reported to the Chamber last summer that that file wasn't where you could find it. So two things went wrong. Firstly, the Chamber has been misinformed. Secondly, that amount could have been withdrawn from the file for nine months without having to enter the codes that Nieuwsuur showed last week. That is, of course, politically deadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u129	I hear the Prime Minister say it, but I keep saying that this is proof of what I just said, namely that something which is actually not very big, a technical thing that turned out to be researchable, for the Minister is the border between the retention of two rulers and the death trap of both with all the consequences. I keep wondering how it is possible that for a year there could be no communication with the Chamber in a way where the answers came step by step. I'd like the Prime Minister to reflect on that. The Prime Minister said this weekend that there was nothing going on and that even if those facts turned out to be true, there would be nothing going on. But then both rulers fell on Monday. I can't rhyme with that. I think that the Prime Minister should think more carefully about how he directs this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u130	This has to do with the fact that last weekend was indeed a very unfortunate situation, namely that the location of the amount was a place which the Minister himself had said could not be found there. Besides, to find it there, you didn't need the information from Newsuur's broadcast. At the time of the parliamentary question on the amount and whether or not the Minister would find that receipt, the rule of trust, in the sense of the political and constitutional relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet, was not relevant. However, it became relevant because the site was a place the Minister had previously reported to the Chamber that he considered closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u131	I am beginning to find it very difficult in replying to the Prime Minister that the only point he is getting excited about is that the amount comes from a stock that was already there and that information should have been provided earlier. I guess there's nothing else going on. The amount doesn't matter. That everyone already knew what it was about doesn't matter. It doesn't matter that the IRS has been sidelined. In short, just the fact that it was in a file that we couldn't open was the problem. Secretary of State Teeven has spoken with the Minister, the Director-General and, as we hear now, with the Prime Minister, but not once has anyone said: pay attention, because Mr Opstelten is giving all kinds of information, but is it correct? I would like to hear his views on this in an in-depth reply from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u132	Yeah, I'm definitely gonna do that, I'd love to. The question about the exact size was relevant in mid-March last year, because at least the impression was given in the debate in the Chamber that the amount mentioned was also the amount transferred to Cees H. I believe that this debate took place on 13 March or that there is a letter on this matter dated 13 March and that the debate took place a few days later. Minister Opstelten corrected his statements from that debate in June. The political fact was thus removed. Now I come to the first part of Mr Pechtold's question, because that is where I agree with him. Of course, there's a lot more going on. I am going to deal with this very specifically, because this was also the focus of the House's sharp speeches to me. I fully understand that, and I answer for it. It was asked: Rutte, what exactly did you do in this file, especially as regards the rule of trust between the Minister of Security and Justice and the Chamber? I fill out exactly where I believe it is and where it is not. I agree with Mr Pechtold that this does not rule out the fact that there are, of course, other issues that I would like to deal with later on, such as the exact size of the amount and whether the College of Attorneys General was aware of that amount in 2000. That type of question must, of course, all be answered. In part three, I come to the way in which I intend to get those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u133	Two minutes ago, the Prime Minister said that the amount does not amount to 2, 5 or 10 million guilders. Now he says that the amount is one of the things that are interesting. We agree, indeed, that the amount of the amount is also important to know whether the Public Prosecutor, Mr Teeven, and the Senior Member of the VVD, also a prosecutor involved, have acted within the rules and whether they have deliberately excluded the Tax Office. So the amount of the money is all that matters. How can the Prime Minister say that the amount doesn't matter? He himself says that the amount of the money is important to know whether tax evasion has occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u134	Now Mr Pechtold brings in a lot. Let me just say exactly what I meant. I made the distinction to see what cardinal is, also in the relationship between the Cabinet and the Chamber, and the rule of trust between the Minister of Security and Justice and the Chamber. This concerns the fact that, in the end, the amount could be fixed on the basis of a stock that he said was not there in the summer. That is all the more pressing, because in March the impression was given that he was talking about other amounts. He made that right in the summer. He said, "I don't know how high the amounts are." What Mr Pechtold refers to is that, of course, we are still interested in it. That is why we have also continued to find the truth in order to find the ticket and to know how much money is involved. The settlement agreement was concluded on 17 August 2000, with the approval of the College of Attorneys General. Of course, you want to know exactly how much that was. In the meantime, we're all interested in that. We now seem to know the amount, but of course we also want to know the amount. Is the assumption that it's interest on a principal or are they other things? All that needs to be figured out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u135	I just want to know at this point in the debate whether the Prime Minister agrees with me that an external investigation is very much needed. Again, I told you in my first term that I'm not a forensic accountant. In fact, I think it goes way beyond my powers and role as a Member of Parliament to know, to figure all this out, to have to look into it in detail and to be in the fog. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Chamber that there should be an external investigation into what exactly the amount of the amount has been, whether there has been tax evasion, at what level has it been decided to keep the Tax Administration out of it and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u136	Now I'm going to do something dangerous: in order to serve Mr Pechtold, I'm going to jump to part three of my answer. What is the job that the new Minister of Security and Justice, in my opinion, has to do to find the answers to this dossier? I'm gonna take the room in there. For me, three aspects need to be identified. The first is that we need to know exactly how the amount is built up. Furthermore, we need to know whether the College of Attorney General was also aware of the amount when the settlement was reached. In addition, we need to know that Mr Van Ojik also asked us what exactly is the actual financial settlement we were talking about and whether that means the amount of the amount. I agree with Mr Van Ojik. That's the first cluster of things I want to know. Secondly, it is important to find out how leaks can occur in the Ministry of Security and Justice, including in Nieuwsuur. That needs to be figured out. So that is a second aspect that needs to be looked at very carefully. The third aspect is what the conclusions on these different elements teach us in terms of the organisation at the Ministry of Security and Justice. In the past year I have of course had a lot to do with the Ministry because of the resolution of the terrible disaster with flight MH17. My own perception is that there are very involved people working at a very high level. Unfortunately, I also have to note that things seem to have been done, done or lost and reported to Nieuwsuur, who in any case need explanation. I would also like to propose that Mr Pechtold's request at the beginning of my term be taken into account when the cabinet comes first with a nomination for the new Minister of Security and Justice to the King, a new minister who will then be appointed. I therefore believe that the Minister for Security and Justice, I say to Mr Pechtold, should also have the opportunity to deal with the dossier as quickly as possible. Then I assume that the Minister of Security and Justice will inform the Chamber of his findings. I gave him this assignment. What I just outlined will all be in the order that I specifically instruct the Minister to report to the Chamber on this dossier, regardless of his broad function in relation to terror, the prosecution, the settlement of MH-17 et cetera, how he intends to clarify all these questions if possible, because we have no guarantee that it will succeed. This will involve the suggestion made by Mr Slob and others for such a committee. I thought Mr Pechtold supported it. Then there are two flavors. Either the Minister for Security and Justice says that he thinks that is a good idea and that he is indeed going to set up such a committee. Or he doesn't think that's a good idea. If that is the case, there is not yet a man overboard for Mr Slob and Mr Pechtold and others who may think that is a good idea, because I imagine that the plan of action will come to the Chamber and be discussed here before it is activated. If the Minister for Security and Justice had already decided to set up a committee, it would soon be agreed. If he imagines not to do so, then one may be convinced by his approach or one may say that it is necessary to do so. In my belief, the new Minister for Security and Justice will have a very open ear for this, because he will see the importance of broad support in dealing with this issue. To go straight to the political explanation: I understood from the corridors that there might be a motion on this point. I can imagine that this motion will indeed be tabled and that it will be put to the vote immediately after the plan of action of the new Minister for Security and Justice has been discussed. Just give that man or woman a chance to get the hands around this file, would be my suggestion to the Chamber. Again, I will give him to be very open to that suggestion. We're not gonna sit here and stop that. It shall also include that report or personal note of the dg. That's what's involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u137	Madam President. With your permission, I'm going back to block one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u138	I'm sure that's okay with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u139	Thank you. The longer the Prime Minister talks, the more unbelievable it gets. Five minutes ago, he said the amount doesn't matter. Five minutes ago, he also said the deal was legitimate. It was a good deal and there was nothing to do. Next, he gives a whole sway that everything needs to be investigated and that the amounts do matter. And rightly so. At the time, 2 million guilders were assumed. It has not been assumed that the Tax Office would be evaded. These are all reasons to go back to the role of the Prime Minister. A year ago, an image was sketched that it's all wrong. The Minister then informed the Chamber as follows: wait a minute, it is not quite right. No one tells me, not even the Prime Minister, that he didn't know very long about the Secretary of State exactly what it was about. The Secretary of State said for a reason in front of the camera that he knew everything. Why didn't the Prime Minister intervene when he realized it was a mess? Why did this whole thing wait until it was finally established that it was a very different matter? He has deliberately been muddled for a year and has not had the Chamber informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u140	I leave all Mr Roemer's insinuations in my direction for what they are worth. I'm gonna leave that one on his side. The only concrete question he asks is: what did Bitch mean when he said he knew everything? That question was answered by the then Minister Opstelten in his letter of 9 July 2014. At that time, he said that this comment by Teeven was directed at the settlement and other matters that the Secretary of State had treated as a prosecutor during his career and not so much at the actual financial settlement. That's one. Exhibit two in my reply to Mr Roemer is that Van Brummen, informed about this by the Director-General, who had discussed it with the Secretary of State for Security and Justice in his capacity as a former prosecutor, concludes that there is no actual determination of the exact size of the amount. Those are the facts. Now I'm going one step back. What I do in my response, and I think this is pure, is to distinguish between the issues that affect the rule of trust between government and Chamber. That's very close. That listens so closely that yesterday the Minister for Security and Justice resigned. In addition, the Minister of Security and Justice was in the process of reconstructing those events from 2000 and 2002, for which he was not responsible, but at most as a successionist. That reconstruction isn't complete. All the elements I have just mentioned and which I would like to include in the mandate to the new Minister of Security and Justice on this particular dossier are looking forward to completing that reconstruction if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u141	The point is that for some time now, including with the Prime Minister, it was known that what was told to the Chamber was not correct. The only thing missing was a so-called receipt. The Prime Minister continues to hide behind the failure to find the receipt, so as not to have to inform the Chamber. That's a mortal sin. By saying in the period to Friday and to Friday that there was nothing going on, that it was all exaggerated, that the Minister did it all very well, and by all the other comments, he deliberately trivializes the problem that the Prime Minister was aware that the Chamber was misinformed. And he didn't intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u142	The Chamber could not have been misinformed until last Sunday evening, when it became clear that there was a serious error in the provision of information to the Chamber, on which the Minister for Security and Justice resigned. Until then, the Chamber could not have been misinformed, because the Chamber had accepted it on the basis of the information provided by the Minister of Security and Justice in June-July last year, following the Parliamentary debate in March last year, which gave the impression that he had mentioned amounts as being the amounts that had been transferred. At that time, the actual political situation was that we did not know how much money was involved. He didn't know that, and the Chamber didn't know that, and so there couldn't have been misinformed. At most an impression had been given in March, which was politically suspended in June-July, in the sense that he said: I regret it when the impression arose that I mentioned the amounts actually paid out. That is the situation; March last year, summer last year and this weekend the tragic fact that the search turned out to be a very serious mistake on one particular route that was closed last summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u143	In my opinion, informing the Chamber includes not only answering questions from the Chamber, but also actively, independently and consciously informing the Chamber at the time of new information. Now we have understood from the presentation of the responses of those involved to Mr Van Brummen's questions that people apparently do not have an active reminder of the financial settlement of what happened then, during that deal, which is why my question is about the last five days. Newsuur's broadcast was on Wednesday night. That said, it is not 1.2 million guilders but 4.7 million guilders. I can imagine that the Prime Minister at that time asked the Secretary of State or the Minister if it could be right. Is that the kind of conversation that took place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u144	Of course, these amounts have been around for a long time. The lawyer involved, who also showed up at Pauw's on Wednesday night, has mentioned these amounts before. I have already said that my question to the Secretary of State was on several occasions whether he could agree with Van Brummen's report. The Court is aware of the conclusions, namely that those concerned, including the State Secretary as the Public Prosecutor, do not have sufficient reminders of the actual financial settlement. That's the data. Let's take a look at it from motives. What if I really tried to keep ministers out of the wind against the best of my knowledge? That's not true, because I think the trust rule is crucial, but let's say it is. If you wanted to think that, I would have had a motive between March last year and June-July last year. If I had known how much money was involved, but I don't know, and if Opstelten had given that impression in March, I would have had that argument between March and June. Again, that's not how I'm in the game. I didn't know the amount. In June-July, Mr Opstelten wrote to the Chamber: I regret that the impression has arisen among Members of Parliament that I meant actual transfers. With that, the political fact was gone, and remained, but not from the trust rule, the information relevant about how much money it is. I still think we should know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u145	I just asked this question, and then the Prime Minister gave a similar answer, but that is not the answer to my question. I understand that those involved have been able to agree with the discussion report drawn up by Mr Van Brummen, which we have received in response to the questions. However, my question is not about that, but about the Prime Minister. I ask whether, after the broadcast of Newshour on Wednesday, in which there was talk of an amount of 4.7 million guilders, the Prime Minister says that this was indeed not the first time that the telephone was picked up and asked the Minister or the Secretary of State if it could be right and whether the amount could be substantially higher than that communicated to the Chamber in March 2014. It seems so strange to me that the Prime Minister would not have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u146	I apologise for interrupting Mr Van Ojik now, but I can see that he will allow me to do so. That was not necessary, because I had already asked Teeven last year if he recognized himself in the presentation of Van Brummen's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u147	That's not my question. My question is not whether the Secretary of State recognized himself in Van Brummen's report and whether the Prime Minister asked the Secretary of State if it did. My question is whether the Prime Minister, after or on Wednesday, asked the Minister or the Secretary of State if it could be true what was said in Nieuwsuur, namely that it was 4.7 million guilders instead of 1.2 million guilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u148	I just gave the answer. That is: no, because last year I understood myself about this with Mr Teeven on the basis of the question: can you agree with the Van Brummen report? I would like to add that there is at least some reservations about this point because, of course, it concerns matters done by the Public Prosecutor at the beginning of this century. It's about complex deals. With regard to this, I do not know about the hat and the edge, nor do I want to be Prime Minister. These matters must take place within the current regulatory framework. I would like to refer once again to what Van der Staaij said about this in his first term. It would have been brilliant at the time when there would have been the impression that it was 2 million guilders and if it had been shown that it had been much more. That was already out of the world anyway, because Minister Opstelten had announced to the Chamber last summer that he was not supposed to have reported the Chamber for what transfer it was actually about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u149	The question of what amount has actually been on the Bureau of the College of Attorneys General at the time it approved that deal is, in my view, crucial. That happened in 2000. The sum of 2 million guilders has simply come back several times in recent years. That started in 2002. Questions were then asked about it by Rietkerk and Van de Camp, then MPs of the CDA. Back then, Minister Korthals put that amount on paper in the answers. Last year, our esteemed former colleague De Wit also asked parliamentary questions. They were answered on 8 April and refer to the answers to the questions put by Van de Camp and Rietkerk. It also refers to the report by BOOM, the Bureau of Abstention Law Public Prosecutor's Office, which also mentions the amount of 2 million guilders. I brought the letter. Finally, the Minister for Security and Justice, who has now resigned, makes it quite clear: "Finally, in the above-mentioned letter of office of the College of 4 April 2002, which the College prepared for the purpose of answering the written questions referred to above by Mr Rietkerk and Mr Van de Camp, it was stated that the amount of assets found with the person concerned at the time of the settlement was approximately fl. Two million, tops. This is also mentioned in the replies to your Chamber, which your Chamber received on 16 April 2002. At my request, the College confirmed the above information to me yesterday. In the light of the foregoing, the statement by Mr. Doedens, Cees H.'s former lawyer, that, in order to carry out this withdrawal, the Public Prosecutor paid almost 5 million guilders to his law firm, is inadmissible."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u150	No, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u151	So the question is, what was on the table in 2000? What answer would the Prime Minister give now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u152	Of course, I don't know. I must, of course, base myself on the reconstruction that is in the process of being carried out. It's not finished yet. That is also one of the reasons why, in response to Mr Pechtold's challenging question, I have said what is now the task of the new minister, that I think it is necessary to clarify two things on this point if possible. I do not know if we will get an answer to that, but I think we should try to get that. The suggestion of a committee could be helpful. Firstly, the question of what the College of Attorneys General knew in 2000 when the settlement was agreed. Secondly, the question of how much money is being built up, which now appears to be 4.7 million guilders. How did that amount come into being? Is the assumption that it's a basic amount of X plus interest? Is that 8.9% interest rate that has appeared in the media here and there and could that be the explanation? We now know that in 1993 interest should not be taken away. Then that could be an explanation, but we don't know. That's why I think we all need to figure it out. And if it's all not exactly traceable, we should at least try to find the most likely scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u153	As far as my group is concerned, the bottom line must emerge from this, because it may be even more serious than just the fact that we have now had the question of confidence with the now resigned Minister Opstelden. It may even be that since the beginning of 2000 the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u154	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u155	... perhaps has been misinformed and that even Minister Korthals has already been guilty of this. We cannot leave that suggestion hanging over the market. I shall come back later to your proposal to examine it through a minister to be appointed, because I find that far too complicated. My plea has been: an independent investigation, get to work, bottom stone above.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u156	I'm not turning against an independent investigation. My only question to Mr Slob is to hold the motion on this, which I understand from the corridors, until shortly after his appointment the new Minister has had the opportunity to submit to the Chamber a plan of action on this dossier on the basis of the mandate I will give him on this dossier, including the questions I have already shared with the Chamber. I also agree with Mr Slob that we need to know that. However, I certainly do not go so far as to suggest that then or later the Chamber would have been misinformed, but at least we need to know. And we don't know that now because there are too many questions right now. We do have to answer it, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u157	From a constitutional point of view, we can assume that the responsibility of previous ministers lies with regard to the incorrect provision of information about this deal in the person of Minister Opstelten, but that aside. The Prime Minister spoke about the actual reconstruction that is now going to take place around that amount. Can I assume that this also raises the issue of legality, as well as the question of whether the amounts we now know can lead to a different assessment of the legality of the deal than was the case with the amounts that had been assumed in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u158	Sure. That is also why I want to know if the amount was known to the College of Attorney General. Once again, one of the speculations I read in the media is that it would have been a sum of 2 million. We don't know, it's a speculation, but let's say it's true that there was a basic amount of 2 million, 2.3 million or whatever the amount was mentioned. This was blocked since 1993 and paid out in 2001. Almost 9% interest was levied at the time. Then you get to a decent amount, an amount of around 5 million, depending on the basic amount you're charging. I don't know if it is. So, like Mr Van der Staaij, I want to take a legal test. I very much agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u159	I have a follow-up question. First, the Prime Minister wants to give the new Minister of Security and Justice the opportunity to put his teeth in it; then the suggestion of external research can be involved. Why do we have to wait for that? Mr Slob has already asked that question and I also have that question. Why should the Minister of Security and Justice not be able to give an ad interim order to an external committee? The new minister can, of course, make his own judgement about it and it is always possible that he or she will take additional action on it, but at least we will have no time to waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u160	I think it would be right to leave it to the new minister, but that is a view and a taste issue. There will be a new Minister of Security and Justice. We will discuss this later, on the basis of the questions put. If I were to become the new Minister of Security and Justice, I would be happy to have a few days to go into such a difficult dossier and dive into everything that has been known so far. The task I am giving to the new minister concerns three aspects. This is one aspect. It also concerns the leakages and the impact on the organisation of the Ministry of Security and Justice. The task is to look at this in conjunction, to share it with the Chamber as soon as possible and to involve a committee's suggestion. He or she can take that suggestion or not. If not, the Chamber can still put its motion to the vote; it will probably make it. However, that gives the Minister a chance to get his own hands around the file. I'd be more comfortable if you were just getting started. All of that can be done quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u161	Now the Prime Minister says that he cannot judge the legality of the deal and that it needs to be investigated. He has given a number of reasons for this. There has been all this uncertainty over the past period. Then the question remains: why did the Prime Minister systematically say this last week? He even said that at the beginning of this debate that the deal could be concluded and that there was nothing wrong with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u162	Because everything is blessed at the highest level. The settlement agreement was signed by the parties on 17 August 2000, after approval by the College of Attorneys General and following a positive opinion from the BOOM, as expressed in its report of 14 July 2000. This involves all aspects of the framework in force at the time. In reply to Mr Van der Staaij's question, I indicated the following. You can look again at the amount, the amount, the question whether the College of Attorneys General knew that this was the amount, whether it was true that it could be interest, whether there is a completely different scenario and whether we can still find out the facts. Then it is not strange to repeat an ex post legality test, as proposed by Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u163	That was not news last Friday, because we knew that for a long time. We have known for a long time that the amount is under discussion. Perhaps it was not yet clear whether the figure was 2, 4, 5 or 10 million, but the Prime Minister knew for some time that the amount was wrong and that therefore permission was given on the basis of an incorrect amount. The Prime Minister also knew for a long time that it was outside the Tax Department. That's not news either, because we've known that for a long time. This raises questions about legality. And yet the Prime Minister is trying to do justice, by saying both Friday and today at the start of the debate that it was a legitimate deal. The then District Attorney Teven was allowed to do that. So he has once again given false information here, both on Friday and today at the start of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u164	No, that doesn't make any sense, with all due respect to Mr Roemer. In 2000, the College of Attorneys-General found that this settlement could be reached. In the meantime, it is also known what amount is included. Mr Roemer has already established that these two would not be compatible. However, that is by no means clear. I think that we should be clear about this. That's why I want to know if the College of Attorneys General was aware of the amount when it agreed to the deal. Can we find an explanation for the build-up of this size? Then Mr Van der Staaij says: when all this has been mapped out, the ex post naturally raises again the question of legality. On the basis of the documents and on the basis that the College of Attorney General approved this, I have to assume: yes, this deal could be concluded in this way. If you find out, if you check the amounts etc. Doesn't it make sense for your ex-post to do that check again? Mr Roemer has already drawn that conclusion and I do not share it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u165	No, it's the other way around. The Prime Minister had already come to the conclusion. The Prime Minister said both Friday and today in the debate that the deal could be closed, when we wanted answers to those questions. The Prime Minister wants those answers now in one go. The Prime Minister has concluded that the deal was allowed. He should never have done that. In doing so, he misinformed the Chamber, both on Friday and today at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u166	This is gonna be a little bit of a miserable. I have to refer to the previous answer. I really don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u167	Mr Wilders wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u168	Ah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u169	Look, he was waiting for it. How credible is this Prime Minister? That is the crux of the question. I would be very sorry if, as a chamber, we had a bollocks investigation with a bollocks on our hands. The essence of the question is: what did Secretary of State Teven know? It's the man who said he knew everything. It's the man who said yesterday, when he returned, in his statement that he was closely involved. Why did the Prime Minister just accept that Bitches told Van Brummen he couldn't remember? That's what the Prime Minister keeps repeating. Mr Van Brummen joined Mr Teeven and could not remember. Secretary of State Teeven knew everything and was proud that he was closely involved. Why didn't the Prime Minister ask for it? No one believes that Mr. Teeven didn't know more than that, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u170	Mr Wilders is basing himself on a false assumption. I've already answered this question. What did Bitch mean when he said, "I know everything?" That was already shared with the Chamber in July 2014. Mr Teeven's statements relate to the settlement and other matters which the State Secretary has treated as a public prosecutor during his career and not so much to the actual financial settlement of this issue. Mr. Pechtold, excuse Mr. Wilders... sorry for this comparison. Mr Wilders suggests that Secretary of State Teeven also referred to the size. This is what was shared with the Chamber in July, this is what the Secretary of State means. If the Secretary of State says on TV yesterday that he's behind the deal, he can do it. That is the discussion just now with Mr Zijlstra on whether it is acceptable and whether it is a good deal. Of this first we can find something with each other, taking into account Mr Van der Staaij's adstruction. We cannot determine the second because we did not know the content of the deal and I do not want to know it as Prime Minister either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u171	That you did not know that, I can justify it, but it is absolutely unbelievable that the Secretary of State, in his role as prosecutor, who was proud to be very closely involved, would not know the amount involved. That's what the Prime Minister is all about every time. Of course, we can assume that District Attorney Bitch knew what the amount was. If he says he can't remember that, it might be that that's not the truth. The Prime Minister should have asked for that, because that is relevant. Mr Van Ojik mentioned it earlier at the interrupting microphone. In that case, Mr Teeven could have said to Mr Opstelten and to the Prime Minister: boys, it's a little higher, it's not right. The Prime Minister didn't ask about that. I ask him if he has ever asked Mr Teeven during the government consultation or at any other occasion, that this matter should have been discussed more often in the VVD circle last year............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u172	I have just answered this question in detail. I have raised two aspects. I found it appropriate to ask Mr Teeven whether he could agree with Van Brummen's conclusions on the basis of the twenty interviews, in particular the discussion with the Secretary of State at the time of the prosecutor's office, which was the basis for Van Brummen. Secondly, I felt that it was on my way to be very reluctant to question a prosecutor who is currently in a different position about deals involving all kinds of aspects relating to the safety of people and complex substantive issues, from 15 years ago. I really have to be very reluctant to go into this in such depth, especially since Van Brummen has already found that no actual determination of the exact amount transferred can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u173	Surely it is completely unbelievable that the Secretary of State insists that the deal he called yesterday is even good for the Temple Deal, while he has some memory loss at the time when Opstelden, then minister, asks him what the details are? How can you say about your own amnesia that it was a fantastic deal? Knit that together!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u174	I'm sticking to the facts. Van Brummen has reached the conclusions which have also been shared with the Chamber on the basis of the discussions that have taken place, including talks with the Secretary of State. Those are the facts. I have already answered this ten times, but I am prepared to answer it another 11th, 12th and 13th time with great energy. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u175	I really think this is the role of the Prime Minister. He says he's been talking to upstellen every day for the past four years. I suppose he'd talk to bitches at least once a week. Bitch says it was a great deal, but I can't tell you anything else about it. The moment he's asked what the details are, Bitch suddenly has amnesia. That's impossible, isn't it? Then, as Prime Minister, you have to say, "Joh, I can never keep that up in the future. Be careful, because party mate Opstelten will be slipping right underneath this"? It was right to do so. I therefore ask the Prime Minister very specifically what he has done to bring together the claim that it was a good deal, as Teeven himself says, and also to the Prime Minister, Mr Teven's memory loss at the time he was officially asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u176	Two responses. Firstly, Minister Opstelten did not resign because the amount was higher than the amount he mentioned in March. We have discussed this a number of times. He resigned because he said in the summer that a certain search route to find the truth about the size and perhaps also the receipt was closed, while last Sunday evening it turned out that that route had not been closed. That's the first fact. So it's not about the size of the amount. That was not the cardinal point in terms of constitutional and ministerial responsibility and the rule of trust between Cabinet and Chamber. Second, it was already reported to the Court on 9 July 2014 that Teeven's ruling that he knew exactly what was going on saw on the settlement and on other cases that the State Secretary had treated as a prosecutor during his career. I have already said this a number of times. Those are the facts. If it had been so relevant to the Chamber from the rule of trust and the position of Teven and Opstelten to have complete clarity about the extent, then I still understand the excitement of Mr Pechtold. Still, I'm not sure how far I'd have gone. I find it quite a lot to ask a former prosecutor what exactly is going on in a former case, in a case not Cees H., but case with c.a.s.e., in this case involving all kinds of aspects, also secrecy and so on. This was not all the more so because the discussion in terms of the confidence rule was no longer about the size of the amount, but this weekend eventually went wrong on the fact that Opstelten had misinformed the Chamber about a certain search route to arrive at truth finding. That's different from the size.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u177	No, that's not what this is about. The point is that the Secretary of State may have known that the amount was different, but did not share this with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. The Prime Minister is always talking about Mr Van Brummen, but Mr Van Brummen is not saying at all that he has not been able to establish it. He merely says, as Mr Pechtold also says, that the Secretary of State was suffering from memory loss and had insufficient memories. That's what he says, and that's what's going on here. So the Minister did not have to resign and should not have misinformed the Chamber if Mr Teeven had said from the outset: Ivo, Mark, the numbers may not be right. It is unbelievable that Mr Rutte now stands behind Mr Teeven, the man who supposedly suffered from amnesia and who indeed said: it is a great deal, I knew all about it and I was closely involved. Prime Minister, either you've been beeped, or you're beeping the Chamber yourself now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u178	The excitement of Mr Wilders stems from the fact that we are making a different assessment of the issue raised in terms of the confidence rule. Mr Wilders felt that it was a question of the size of the amount. I disagree. After all, the lack of clarity about the size was politically closed last summer and then we found that we did not know how much money was involved. It has now gone wrong, because it turns out that a certain search route did lead to results this weekend. In addition, I can only tell Mr Wilders what Van Brummen himself says about it. On the basis of his findings, no substantiated statements could be made on the actual financial settlement, after Van Brummen had informed Mr Opstelten that the memories of Mr Teeven, as well as of others involved in the question of how much money was involved, were insufficient to clarify the actual financial settlement. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u179	The Prime Minister can say so many times that it was not about the actual size of the amount, but since last Wednesday it has only been about the actual size of the amount. That was because a new amount had come on the table. I have already asked the Prime Minister twice whether he did not at that time inform Mr Teeven of what it might be like. He then said that this was not necessary because Mr Teeven had stated to Van Brummen that he had no memories of the actual financial settlement of the transaction. So the man who thought it was a fantastic deal, a deal he dragged away for the people and country at the gates of hell, can't remember what the actual financial settlement was, and then the Prime Minister says he didn't even ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u180	I would like to comment on Mr Van Ojik's comment. Firstly, none of us know exactly what's in Teeven's head when he says it was a fantastic deal. That, I assume, is not so much about what amount was finally transferred to Cees H. It is, of course, about the question of what has been arranged in a broader context, of which we do not know exactly what has happened. We don't know that, and I don't want to know that at all: that's a matter for the D.A.'s office. Secondly, Mr Van Ojik assumes that the size of the amount is relevant to whether a minister should quit. We have a genuine difference of opinion in this regard. That's a political appraisal. Last year it was clearly stated that it was impossible to clarify the exact size of the amount, while Opstelten at least in March gave the impression that he was aware of it and had corrected it in June/July. However, it has gone wrong because on a completely different point a mistake has been made in the reconstruction which Opstelten has tried to make to their consciences. That was ultimately the reason for the Minister's fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u181	It is true that the Minister of Justice had his initial determination on the amount last summer. However, my question is not about what happened between last summer and now. My question concerns what has happened over the past five or six days. The Prime Minister can very often say that the amount was not relevant, but on the other hand it is only about the amount since last Wednesday. What has the Prime Minister done since last Wednesday to clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u182	The fact that something is played high in publicity is no reason to make it a crucial point in terms of the rule of trust between the Cabinet and the Chamber? That would be a great deal! That is quite an invitation to the media to raise certain issues, because then they automatically become the subject of discussion about the rule of trust. That would have been relevant if Opstelten had not corrected his statement in June/July that he had given an impression in March that he would not have wanted to create. He said he regretted it when that impression was made. So that was gone. The size was not politically relevant, of course socially relevant, but not politically relevant in that the Chamber was well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u183	I must say that I am increasingly surprised to listen to the Prime Minister. Again, and that is only increasing, I say to Mr Zijlstra who comments in the background. The Prime Minister is right to say one thing, and that is that he is not about the content of the deal. However, there is one thing the Prime Minister is about. He must avoid banana peeling in his cabinet leading to a glide like this. Now there's this case with Secretary of State Bitch again. The Prime Minister has not been able, because of his role as Prime Minister, to bring the truth to his own Secretary of State within a year. This has been dragging for a year. Even last weekend, the Prime Minister said, "There's nothing wrong." Two days later, however, the rulers are gone. I am now asking the Prime Minister whether he would like to reflect on the role he has played, and not just on the roles that others have played. Will he tell the Chamber if he thinks he's been happy in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u184	So now the question of direction is on the table, Mr President. I always make a distinction between two types of case. On the one hand, there are the dossiers that are crucial for realising the ambitions of the coalition. Let me give you an example of the cuts, but above all the large package of reforms. In those cases, I may not be day-to-day, but I am still very regularly in the process of informing me about the course of events, providing assistance where necessary, helping to pull buttons out of those files when they occur, and so on. That's what I'm doing with these types of files. In addition, there are always cases, we all know of the political company, which are not crucial for realising the ambitions of the cabinet, but which are important for the effectiveness of the coalition. This is obviously one of those. I am not going to give Mr Buma a logbook stating when I have spoken to whom, but if he is concerned about this, I can reassure him completely. At all relevant moments I have, of course, kept in touch with all the main players. That did not mean that I could prevent the conclusion last Sunday that a certain search route that was closed in the June letter turned out to be something. I haven't been able to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u185	This story is on the verge of what the Chamber can still accept. Of course, it is not the case that a Prime Minister drops two rulers for something as technical as this. The Prime Minister also saw, with the Chamber, that in the course of a year the positions of the Minister and the Secretary of State became more and more untenable. Eventually, a drop overflowed the bucket. The Prime Minister bounces the ball back to others. That's why I'm saying again that he should look more closely at what he's done. Earlier there was the Verheijen case, which I mentioned. At first, according to the Prime Minister, it was the media's fault, but three weeks later, the man was gone. Last weekend, the Prime Minister said, "There's nothing wrong." Two days later, the rulers are gone. Does the Prime Minister want to think before he acts in the media and defends things that cannot be defended?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u186	The complexity of Mr Buma's interruption is that there is such a deep assumption in it that it is extremely difficult to respond to it, but I am going to try. I just outlined to the Chamber the conviction of leadership I lead the cabinet as Prime Minister. I have just said that I make a distinction between the major dossiers on the one hand and the politically brittle subjects on the other which could possibly interfere with the effectiveness of the coalition if it did not go well. I do so every day and, where that occurs, with all the relevant key players, of course. I think Lubbers called it "can I think a little bit along?" I have my own expressions again. Of course, I won't do that if I don't have to, but I will if I have to. These are difficult files. Mr Buma says: but there is also an addition. Yes, Mr. Buma may think so. That is also a question of political appreciation. In the file, there is a sum of money. Mr Buma is, of course, right to some extent. You could say that in this case, if you would like to look with a search light, there has been a serious event once before, namely when the Minister of Security and Justice seemed to give the impression last March that certain amounts had been transferred. The Minister said about this later: I regret it if that impression had arisen. He said: I did not want to communicate amounts transferred where I did nothing other than relate to the amounts mentioned above. He said, "We don't know how much was transferred." So you could say that there has been a serious event in this dossier once before. However, that is not why I understand that the Minister for Security and Justice has resigned. I think it is serious that he wrote to the Chamber that he had closed a certain search route. If he hadn't, we would have known the size nine months ago. I think that fact is a cardinal in itself. That's a matter of weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u187	Perhaps we can make some progress in this debate, because 'Cees H. speaks' we shall say. I see on the internet that he's telling me on TV tonight that he doesn't object to making the deal between him and the Public Prosecutor's Office. He says that no consideration has been paid for the 4.7 million guilders. This is actually a matter of dealing with this dossier. The consent to disclosure has therefore now been given. Maybe that should be formalized through the lawyer. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he can now ensure that the details of the deal come to the Chamber tomorrow, details that Mr Teeven can't remember when he says it's a fantastic deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u188	I can't say that on the basis of a media report like that. I will, if Cees H. lets himself be in the media about that. That is interesting and relevant in itself. What I would at least like to commit to Mr Pechtold is that I will give that fact to the new Minister of Security and Justice to be involved in the resolution. I would find it a little strange to say here on the basis of a message in the media about Cees H., who apparently is going to say something tonight, that we are going to make everything public. It will have to be weighed legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u189	Mr President, on the basis of...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u190	We're not trying to get through this. I didn't get the impression the Prime Minister was ready. Are you sure you're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u191	I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u192	On a message from the media of the week, you lost two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u193	Touché!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u194	I would take the messages from the media seriously in that sense. Once again, I think that the Chamber is now calling on the Prime Minister to show more insight into his own direction over the past few months, because it seems more and more in this debate that the Prime Minister has not gone far enough to make this clear. I do not think you can say that as a cabinet you wait a few weeks to appoint new rulers and that the Chamber should wait until then. The facts are now also revealed by the person concerned, Cees H.. I believe that we should not wait for the new govern ment, because of this case and this topicality, and we should perhaps not even burden it with it, but that the direction should now be taken by the Prime Minister and that we should be promised that tomorrow, after probably a check with the lawyer, the data from that deal will be revealed. Is the Prime Minister prepared to admit this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u195	No. I am prepared to say that we will carefully study these media reports on Cees H. and will report to the Chamber what further significance they have. I cannot give the Chamber any assurances about deadlines and so on, and that really needs to be looked at very carefully. All the more so because I do not know any more than Mr Pechtold has just mentioned. Where I said "in the media," I meant to say nothing derogatory about the media. I merely meant to say that if something is brought into the debate so soon, it requires at least clarification for a precise meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u196	I have the following question about the Prime Minister's direction. When did the Prime Minister first hear that it was likely to be a much higher amount, for example 4.7 million guilders, and that this would probably also come out at some point? What did the Prime Minister know at what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u197	The whole of the Netherlands knew that when Cees H.'s lawyer spoke about it on television. I think it's been a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u198	Was that enough reason for the Prime Minister to take it for granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u199	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u200	When did the Prime Minister first hear that it was really taken out of the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u201	I heard that Monday morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u202	So before then, there was no communication that it was coming and that it would be found? The Prime Minister heard for the first time on Monday morning that something was coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u203	Sure. The Minister of Security and Justice was informed on Sunday evening that there was a long way to go. I'm not even sure if they found it by then or if they were very close to finding it. At least Sunday night this ball was gonna roll and I heard it Monday morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u204	Mr Roemer, I would suggest that we should actually move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u205	I can imagine that, Mr President, but I have one last question about the role of director, because it does not let go of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u206	Well, at least I know it's the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u207	It's about Wednesday night. Over the past year, we may differ on that. We have already done so, but we are talking about Wednesday night. Wednesday evening was the revelation in Nieuwsuur, which included the amount and the account number. All the details were in the picture. Why didn't the Prime Minister start ringing all the alarm bells at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u208	There were no alarm bells ringing, but I did realize that this might help to find it. As a result, the Minister for Security and Justice has ordered that all files should be checked again using all the information. The political problem occurred on Sunday when it appeared that information was indeed found in the files, but not on the basis of the codes shown in the photo or poster during the Nieuwsuur broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u209	If the Prime Minister had any kind of alarm bells ringing on Wednesday night, since he now says that this message was going to help us find out and bring the possibility of a result closer, then it is completely unbelievable that he said several times in the following days that there was nothing going on, that it was well arranged, that the Chamber was whining...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u210	Well, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u211	...or in whatever terms he spoke. The Prime Minister said there was nothing wrong and that the deal was right. He said I'd re-appoint the minister if that's what's going on. Those two things don't go together. If Wednesday the alarm bells ring and it is said "wait a minute, now we have a big problem," then it cannot be said on Friday that nothing is going on. This is where the Prime Minister is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u212	With the reason why I disagree with Mr Roemer and others who made these comments, I began my speech. I can go on repeating this completely, but at the heart of the matter I pointed out that it was this Minister of Security and Justice who, in all conscience, tried to bring about a reconstruction of events in 2000. Because of the answers given to Parliament's questions, I added the events of 2002. The Minister has done so to his honour and conscience. One thing went wrong last year when he wrote to the Chamber that he regretted the impression that he had mentioned the amount because he did not know how much it was. It was just as important to put that right. The Chamber has accepted that at implication as well. Then the process went on and so it was interesting and relevant to know how much money was involved and to know if the transfer, the famous receipt, could be found. At that time, however, this did not affect the rule of trust between the Minister and the Chamber. Then it appeared on Sunday that the discovery originated from a specific search route in the security and justice systems, on which the Minister had written to the Chamber in June that it had been closed. That was a cardinal political fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u213	I was not talking about the direction of the Minister for Security and Justice, but about that of the Prime Minister, who just told me that alarm bells started ringing on Wednesday and that what was in the picture indicated that something else was going on. But two days later he said: there is nothing wrong, the minister is doing well, the facts are right, the deal is right, I would re-appoint this minister because he has done well. At that time, the Prime Minister deliberately misinformed the Netherlands and the Chamber, as he was apparently already aware on Wednesday that it was not a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u214	It wasn't right? It goes back to the fact that the amount was higher than Opstelten mentioned in March, it goes back to what he wrote to the Chamber in June, July and of which he accepted and attached the political implication by saying that he was not supposed to have mentioned an amount. That's one. After that, it was still socially interesting in all respects to find how much it went and whether the voucher was available. When this came into view on Wednesday evening, that was of course a reason for the Minister of Security and Justice to re-understand his services and say: all kinds of codes, account numbers and so on are now appearing in the picture; knock it all in and see if anything happens. The tragedy was that, I think, there wouldn't have been a big political problem if he had discovered it using all those codes from the Nieuwsuur broadcast. That's my weight. When it turned out that the information that came up on Sunday night could be found without the information of Nieuwsuur, purely by searching in systems that he said were closed down in June, a political cardinal problem arose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u215	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u216	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been answered along the way. We can make pace. The succession is not related to the election. I never said that either. We want to do this carefully and think it will take one or two weeks to fill the vacancy. We've been asked why Block doesn't detect Plasterk. Reference was made to the replacement system for ministers. This applies only if a minister has to be replaced temporarily and is not an observation scheme. Minister Blok takes over the duties attached to the posts of Minister and State Secretary of V and J temporarily where, until their final successors have been appointed. As I said in my introductory statement earlier today, Minister Plasterk will observe as much as possible the work of Minister Blok as Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u217	I asked questions about this because it surprised us a little. We received a Royal Decree of 5 November 2012. It says neatly for all ministries who is the replacement. With the Minister of Security and Justice, it says Dr. R.H.A. Plaster his replacement is. Mr Plasterk is the replacement for Mr Blok. In one way or another, there is now some suspension and departure from what was officially established by Royal Decree and communicated to the Chamber. I wonder what the motivation for that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u218	In that Royal Decree, it is not about observation, but about temporary replacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u219	I have the impression that this is a temporary replacement for the Ministry of Security and Justice, because there is no one here now. So it seems only logical to me that you should choose the replacement who has probably watched it over the past two years. After all, when the time comes, you must be ready for this task. Is there any other reason why you should deviate from this? Let me just say it out loud. It seems that once again a VVD member in this ministry should act as a temporary replacement and that the PvdA member who is the replacement is passed over for that. If it isn't, you can deny it, but it sounds a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u220	The Secretary of State is the replacement. This is about perception. I can't make it prettier. I repeat the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u221	Mr Wilders also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u222	I have a simple question: what the hell does the minister of roof tiles know about terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u223	This is all good for the media, as Mr Wilders calls for a minister of the Crown, who has been one of the few in the last 40 years able to bring about major reforms in the housing market and in the government. We could all speak about him with a little more respect, even Mr Wilders. I think he's a good substitute for the Minister of Security and Justice. That is my decision and Mr Wilders will see that things are going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u224	It is up to me to ask and check on that. I have nothing against Mr Blok in person, but in practice the man has never been politically involved in terrorism. He deals with housing, roof tiles and energy labels. I find it unimaginable. You also have a Secretary of Defense. We have the marshalssees standing right here in front of the house. Why didn't the Prime Minister choose to make the Minister of Defence, who knows something about terror, responsible for what we think of her policy, rather than the man who goes over the roof tiles?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u225	I know Mr Blok as a generalist and as a generalist in the field, but also as a generalist, for example, as a former chairman of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, Mr Wilders is well-known. I have every confidence in his statement. I have to say it right after my discussion with Mr Slob's observation at this ministry. That's gonna be okay. I will look at the other questions that I would have liked to answer, but they have all been discussed in the interrupting debates. Just give me one second to check, so your colleagues, Mr. Chairman, don't get mad. I hardly dare to say it, but I think, thanks to the many pleasant interruptions and the debates that ensued, all the questions have been answered, unless someone is angry...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u226	Never angry, always helpful. I would like to know how the Minister looks at that VVD senator Swagerman, who, in his role as Deputy Chief Officer himself, was involved in the deal and who, from the First Chamber, shamelessly condemned this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u227	It would be a good thing if I, as a member of the government, did not receive any further appreciation of Mr Swagerman's remarks. That doesn't suit me as a member of the cabinet. We are co-legislators, but the Second and First Chambers are also our auditors. The Chambers can discuss that with each other. Mr Pechtold has much more room in that. I should like to make the following comments on the content. He says in the interview that the company file is at the Amsterdam public prosecutor's office. We have checked this several times with the President of the College of Attorneys General, Mr Bolhaar. He insists it can't be found there. That fact is mentioned in the article. I do not think it is purely to enter into what he says about how the Chamber functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u228	However, we can see that this VVD senator and Deputy Chief Officer can look forward to an invitation to defend this bold statement to the Committee of Inquiry. I assume that's what the gentleman looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u229	I have already promised that I will involve the Committee of Inquiry's suggestion very seriously in drawing up a plan of action. I would add that I will pass on Mr Pechtold's suggestion to the newly appointed minister, man or woman, without making that suggestion at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u230	The Prime Minister's first reaction to the question of when the new Minister and Secretary of State would be appointed was to say: at least not before the elections. I'm not very good at rhymes with these things. What does the appointment of new directors have to do with the date of the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u231	Nothing at all, and that's why it wasn't said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u232	I am glad that this correction is made to that, because I have seen the message. It came from AZ and I thought it was a strange message.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u233	No. AZ collectively shakes no. So that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u234	I had asked whether the Prime Minister felt that the cabinet should reflect society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u235	The cabinet must consist of the best men and women we can find for the positions. It is my belief that a mix of cultures and men and women on average leads to even more beautiful decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u236	Can the Prime Minister promise that he will take account of his views on the appointment there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u237	We always look at a good mix of talents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u238	It can't be fun if two rulers leave your cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u239	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u240	I ask the Prime Minister to look back: where in the whole story could he have done anything to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u241	The reason and reason for the departure lie in what Mr Opstelden, then Minister of Security and Justice, wrote in his letter of 3 June: "There were no back-ups available at the Ministry's Joint ICT Services Centre (GDI). As a result, data from before 2002 are no longer accessible." That wasn't right in the end, as it turned out last Sunday. The fact that the receipt appeared or that the amount became clear was not politically cardinal. The fact that a route explicitly appointed by the Minister was not closed after all was true. I can torment myself endlessly about how I should have prevented it. Then I really should have gone through that letter and checked all the political sensitivities. I didn't. It would go a long way to blame myself for that. I would then have to check every letter from every minister for every sentence. I can't do that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u242	It is good that the Prime Minister is trying so horribly to narrow the issue down to finding a receipt and is trying to put his own actions aside and put it entirely on the hands of the Minister of Security and Justice. While it was quite clear that the Chamber was also concerned with the amount of money and several signals have emerged over the past six months that it was different from what the Chamber has always heard, even though there was a letter from the Minister. Why didn't the Prime Minister, at all these times when there were clues, take the lead to prevent it from getting completely out of hand, as has happened now, so that two rulers now have to leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u243	As I outlined earlier in reply to questions on this subject, I have, of course, interfered with this dossier at all times and understood myself with the rulers, especially of course with Ivo Opstelten, the minister who was working on the reconstruction. Especially when, around the summer of last year, the misunderstanding threatened to arise that he appointed in his letter of 14 July, in which he also indicated that he regretted it if he had given the impression that.... et cetera. It's part of my role as Prime Minister and the director. I just outlined how I do that. I do so with the politically complex dossiers, both in terms of achieving the objectives of the cabinet and in terms of dossiers which may not contribute but which are important for the proper functioning of the coalition. I've done it till the last time. I cannot therefore say more to Mr Roemer. I can only repeat this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u244	I had asked if the Prime Minister could assess the success of the deal, as we heard it would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u245	At a number of moments in this debate, I have indicated that I can only say something about whether the deal should be dealt with, taking into account what we have just discussed with each other, whether it raises questions of legality in the event of further examination ex post or not. I have no reason to do so at the moment. That's one. Secondly, I said that I cannot appreciate whether it was a good deal. I cannot do that because I, as Prime Minister, do not want to be aware of the deals made by prosecutors seized by the prosecution and subject to current regulations. That's how it's supposed to be in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u246	I hope that the Prime Minister will be prepared to have this examined by that independent committee, especially now that the person concerned himself is telling us this evening that there was nothing against it. Then I can't imagine what could have been good about that deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u247	No, I cannot say yes to that, because that does not seem to me to be the type of question that we are going to put to the committee if it is already there. It does not seem to me to be the type of question that I am going to put to the Minister of Justice with the mandate to clarify this point, possibly involving the suggestion made by the Committee of Inquiry, made by the Chamber. This is not going to be part of that, because that is not on the way of the Minister of Security and Justice in his relationship with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u248	This put an end to the government's first term. I'd like to propose a brief suspension. I mean about five minutes, but perhaps Mr Roemer has another proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u249	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to suspend for about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u250	About 20 minutes. I see no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u251	We shall begin with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u252	Mr. Chairman. Last year the House of Representatives held an unsatisfactory debate with Minister Opstelten on 13 March. That debate became even more unsatisfactory after the Minister withdrew in the weeks after that from the amounts he had appointed as facts in the Lower House. We've been a year. The questions have piled up over the past year. New information has also become available and the two directors concerned have been dismissed since last night. This evening, the Prime Minister has been responsible for the course of events. I personally found it unsatisfactory that he was trying to stay away from questions about the content of the deal. He proposed that these questions be put to a newly appointed Minister of Security and Justice. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we are not going to do this. With permission, I find this a rather strange proposal. This is about finding the truth. Surely we are not leaving the choice for an investigation to a minister of security and justice to be appointed? This is listening closely. This calls for absolute independence, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still many questions about:]] [[the settlement agreement between the Public Prosecutor and Mr Cees H.;]] [[the information available or not to the directors, the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office on this settlement;]] [[the provision of information to the Chamber;]] [[invites the Government to set up an independent committee of inquiry and to submit the research mandate to the Chamber prior to that meeting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Slob, Mr Samsom, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Pechtold, Mr Roemer, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Wilders, Mr Klein and Mr Zijlstra.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u253	Mr. Chairman. One thing has become clear tonight. Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven have resigned. But that is the only clarity we have received this evening. Because the reason for the resignation alone remains very strange. It seems that only the Prime Minister thinks that not giving false information to the Chamber, but that the final source of that information was such a turn of events that both rulers had to perish. According to the CDA's group, that is an inimitable argument. For if that is really the criterion, I say to all the rulers, "Take your steps again." Wrong information is allowed, if that wrong information doesn't come from the wrong source, because then you hang. Of course, that story isn't complete. In the end, it is only a half-hearted attempt to tie the loose ends together. It's all a lot more like panic. The Prime Minister was the only one who did not see the banana peel in the Netherlands; until this weekend, but then it was too late. Then these two rulers suddenly became a liability and had to leave. Once again, it appears that the Prime Minister is too light-hearted in this kind of situation and then, in the media, trivializes it all. And this while you can expect a prime minister to think first and then do it. You also expect him to see banana peels lying around. This is all too late for the government officials who left. Justice needs deep self-examination, and you can also expect the Prime Minister to learn his lesson for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u254	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for answering our questions. What keeps me occupied and fascinated is what has happened since last Wednesday. We know from Mr Van Brummen's report that many people do not remember what happened in the time of the deal. However, we should all remember what has happened since Wednesday. The Prime Minister actually says, "I didn't do anything after the Nieuwsuur broadcast." That was not necessary either, because I had understood from Secretary of State Teeven that he could agree to the report that Van Brummen had given, which stated that he could not remember the actual settlement of the deal. So it wasn't necessary to do anything. After a broadcast that hit like a bomb, I'm still surprised. We have devoted a number of hectic arrangements to this on Thursday. The President can also remember that, because I see her nodding in agreement. I am still surprised that the Prime Minister said he did not see any reason to ask the directors concerned again whether the amount revealed in Nieuwsuur might be right. Because he didn't do anything, you could say that Sunday night or Monday morning, when that receipt came up, suddenly escalated. In the defence of the Prime Minister, all emphasis has now been placed on this as the motive for the Minister's resignation. I understand. But did it have to escalate like that? Does that perhaps explain that Secretary of State Bitch said at the press conference yesterday that he found the resignation of the minister indigestible? If that is not explained by the Prime Minister's lack of action, what then? I'm rounding up. Four rulers have now left since the Rutte II cabinet took office. That couldn't have been the intention, could it? I have not yet heard from the Prime Minister a beginning of reflection on his own role as director of this cabinet. Is that right? We naturally support Mr Slob's motion. We also support the message that this research must be independent. I assume that the secrecy that has apparently always been at stake in the discussions on this deal will not be an obstacle to the committee. Could the Prime Minister perhaps respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u255	Mr. Chairman. The problems at the Ministry of Security and Justice are enormous: the National Police are a mess, there are corrupt buyers, a missing telephone tap and there was the Demmink issue. Meanwhile, our country's security is in danger. The threat of jihadist violence is greater than ever. The Ministry of Security and Justice deserves strong and honest leadership, but that has been lacking in recent years. The resignation of Mr Opstelten and Mr Teeven was entirely justified. This cabinet is swarming from crisis to crisis. Let's hope for a quick election to the House of Representatives. Our country deserves better!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u256	Mr. Chairman. It's amazing how the Prime Minister played this afternoon, how he turned off the same mantras and how he avoided answers. He just doesn't answer questions. Of course, it's not just about whether or not the deal should take place. It is also nonsense to say that it is not about the amount of the amount. The key question of the debate is: what exactly did Teeven know? What did he do with that information? The guy who showed off his fantastic deal with Cees H., the guy who said he knew all about it, the guy who said he was close to it last night when he resigned, this guy suddenly forgot everything and says, also to researcher Van Brummen, that he doesn't have enough memories. Temporary amnesia and therefore totally unbelievable. It is also unbelievable that the Prime Minister has accepted that. How is it possible? Why didn't Mr. Rutte ask through? Why didn't he ever say, "Fred, is this right, boy? You really don't remember? This can't be happening, can it? Our Ivo is in danger because of you!"? What Bitch knew has to be investigated. That is why I signed Mr Slob's motion on behalf of the PVV Group. The bottom stone has to be upstairs. What did Fred Teeven know and what did he do with it? That must be part of the independent investigation. The conclusion after this debate remains that Prime Minister Rutte's cabinet has lost all authority and credibility. The Prime Minister is out of control. His party ended up in a crisis, after he pushed the Netherlands into the abyss. The citizen who's watching this doesn't understand a thing. It pays the price for this mischief and for the failure of that Prime Minister. On March 18, next Wednesday, all those people who watched today get the chance to send Rutte home. Enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u257	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the first-term replies. It is important that we learn from this debate so that we do not see this kind of nonsense in the future. The most important question is what has led to this debate. Mr Slob has tabled a motion on this. We support the thrust of this motion, but we do have a question on it, which was also raised by Mr Van Ojik, namely how secrecy in this matter can be an obstacle to overcoming the bottom stone. Furthermore, we are extremely satisfied with the half-hearted commitment made by the Prime Minister on the future of the appointment of the new governors. We hope for a reflection of society. This reflection of society has so far had no result, but we hope that it will be discussed in the next appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u258	Mr. Chairman. It's okay, people, keep moving, it's okay. I get that feeling not only when I look back on the past year, but also when I let the Prime Minister's commitment to this debate get on with me again. I have said to the interrupting microphone a few times this evening that I do not think it is the role of the Chamber to have to question directors over and over again as a kind of investigating judge, when it turns out that journalists can come up with information. I really think that is an erosion of our right to information and of the role we should have as a Chamber. As far as I am concerned, this case is gradually in a tradition of debates which the cabinet repeatedly withholds at procedural meetings and at the settlement, but which have everything to do with truth finding. If this cabinet wants to go on for another two years, I would say that, apart from the content and ambition that must be achieved, it also requires a change of course as far as I am concerned when it comes to the question of how we, as a Chamber, control what the cabinet is doing. It has been established that the Chamber has been misinformed time and time again. I do not think it is appropriate for the Prime Minister to make it smaller, until 'it has been said that it cannot come out of a system and it is now coming out of the system; that is the mistake'. I find that, frankly, not to persevere with the resignation of the members of the government. It was heavier. If you take your ministerial responsibility, it is not because a computer system from the beginning of this century is no longer functioning and suddenly it is. That's really because of the content of the case. I would therefore like the Minister to show in the second term that he has left the direction where he has taken it. That also makes us support Mr Slob's motion. I believe that the research mission should be sent to the Chamber and that it should also be given the space to come up with ideas independently. At least my group wants to have a forensic account, because someone who goes through the closets as a sort of inspector seems to be badly needed in this dossier. As far as I'm concerned, we got too few answers tonight, it was too laconical and there was too little direction from the Prime Minister. I really call on him to give him the space in the second term to reflect on it again that it has to be different in relation to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u259	Madam President. Even after tonight's answer, much remains unclear. The Prime Minister is going around everything and trying to make the problem small, just a receipt. But it remains unclear why the D.A.'s office has been involved in delinquency of crime money outside the IRS. It remains unclear why it was necessary to save Cees H.'s rascals. It remains unclear when the Prime Minister knew that the cabinet shared wrong information with the people and with the parliament. And it remains unclear what he then did to restore things. After today's debate, we have to say that it has not become more credible. The Prime Minister seems to have a bad view of what is happening on his ministerial team. He doesn't seem to have any control over affairs that start to get small and get bigger and bigger. We know the Prime Minister as an optimistic man, but over and over again his optimism is more like nonchalance and exaggeration. Although the Prime Minister already knew on Wednesday that things weren't right, he said on Friday: what do I care that we haven't picked a criminal but have made it richer, what do I care that the Chamber has probably not been properly informed all this time, and what do I care that I keep defending regiments who have to resign a few days later? It should have captivated the Prime Minister. That is why credibility has not improved. Finally, because there are still so many questions, it seems that there will be an independent investigation. It is so pure to wait for that and base our final judgment on it. But the need for independent research is now certain, and it is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u260	Madam President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Fortunately, ministerial responsibility is not only the resignation of rulers when there are errors in the provision of information to the Chamber, but is first and foremost the accountability and accountability of the policies pursued and what has happened in practice. That is what happened with the written reply and also this evening in the debate. I think it is rather special that a debate such as this could end with such a wide-ranging motion. I think it is a positive signal that it is actually said from the whole Chamber: no matter how you stand in it, it is good if the fog does not continue. Now that it has cost the head of two rulers, it is all the more important to have full clarity, to see what has actually happened, but also to see to what extent that has been legitimate. That is why we have wholeheartedly supported the motion. The other question you always ask is: what can we do for dealing with similar matters now, learn from the things that went wrong back then? This question has actually been raised much less in this debate than in many other debates. I think this is right because the practice in those years has been unpleasant and in the past has led to a lot of additional rules on commitments to witnesses in criminal matters, a clear standard and the scrutiny that is at issue and the more effective removal of criminal property. We will continue to be strong in this Parliament for everything else that we can improve on that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u261	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, there were three things that were related to each other. First of all, there was the political mortal sin that led to the resignation of two rulers, namely the failure to properly inform the Chamber. Some people can hardly believe that you are falling over such a small fact, but that is a clear agreement in the law of the state and we would not be able to function if we did not have that agreement and if we did not keep it. So, as I said in the first term, I think it is right that it was. Something else came up. The mistake made at the Ministry of Security and Justice, as the Minister for Security and Justice said yesterday in his statement, has not only led to incorrect information being provided to the Chamber, but also to the fact that there has been too long uncertainty as to the exact amount. Mr Pechtold said that this was an important complaint from him. I'll share it with him. This has remained unclear for far too long, as the Minister for Security and Justice clearly stated during the announcement of his resignation. The second thing that is at stake in this debate is, of course, that deal and everything that is around it. This subject was already taken up in this Chamber in 2002 by colleagues from the CDA in response to the predecessor of the Nieuwsuur programme. After that, it's been quiet for a while. When Nieuwsuur came up with it again in 2013, the subject played again in the Chamber. Last week, after Nieuwsuur came up with it again, it was playing in the Chamber again. Every time the Chamber plays its part. I don't want to hide the fact that this is every time there's been good investigative journalism, but that doesn't seem to be unusual in this house. A new fact has now been confirmed, namely the amount of the amount. The finding of the rule or receipt to the Ministry of Security and Justice has for the first time independently confirmed the amount of money transferred under this deal. This gives us reason to support Mr Slob's motion calling on the government, on the basis of this confirmation and on the new fact, to conduct an independent investigation into all the relevant circumstances. The third point that has been raised in this debate, albeit to a lesser extent, concerns the question of what we have learned from such a deal. It is not surprising that this was not so much the subject of this debate because there was actually something else on the agenda, but there is still a reason for it, because these lessons have been drawn in recent years. There are other conditions for deals and more transparency and political responsibility. It's become easier to take criminal money. So some of those lessons have been learned. If there are new lessons to be learned from the independent research that we are starting from today, then we will do so, so that the latter is, in the end, the core of this case, easier, clearer and politically more worn if we take away criminals' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u262	Mr. Chairman. As in the past, there were facts and images in this debate. There was a lot of image and sometimes that really went right through the facts and it was presented as a fact. The final outcome is that none of the people present in this Chamber knows exactly what is happening now. That is why the VVD Group also supports the motion tabled by Mr Slob on behalf of the Christian Union, which I believe is almost universally signed, because there is a need for Parliament to clarify what is an image and what is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u263	Mr Zijlstra now says that a lot of images have been sketched today that have not turned out to be facts. Can he give me one example of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u264	Yes. What Mr Pechtold has presented as a fact is that the Minister had said £ 1.25 million and that it had remained so. After that, however, a letter had come. So reality was a different one. That kind of thing is, of course, important in a debate like this. This case has a long history, so I can understand why a piece of it has fallen away here and there. That's what you saw in this file all the time. That is why it is good to check what images and what facts are at the end of this case. How are we gonna get things done? I repeat what I said in the first term: the obligation of confidentiality of those involved in the criminal deal that has been concluded cannot be shunned lightly. I understand that Mr. Cees H. has announced that he wants to announce the deal. We know the settlement. So this isn't that much news. It is also a fairly easy exercise by Cees H., because the public prosecutor will have to make his side public. I don't know if the D.A.'s office will do that, because it makes a criminal deal almost impossible in the future. That does not seem to me to be a good outcome of a debate either. Despite this, the VVD also wants an ultimate attempt to achieve, through an external investigation, that what can be overcome is indeed coming to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u265	I am glad that the VVD does not ultimately isolate itself by saying that there is no need for research, but I think the reasoning that only images and no facts have been used is rather thin. The Minister has been telling us in detail in the Chamber: 750,000 sister, 1.25 million like this; then you have to take into account a house; these are the facts; you have to trust me in that. Then he said: if that is what created the image that I was exactly, I want to take it away. The fact that the Chamber did not then table a motion of censure does not mean that the matter is now time-barred in order to remain in legal terms. No, the fact is that the Minister said so. The fact is that the Minister has gone into it in detail. Mr Zijlstra will have to re-read all the Minister's replies and the report of the whole debate. I believe that Mr Zijlstra cannot get away with saying that all the images here tonight have been sketched out that have not proved to be factual. There were indeed many more facts and many more facts will come to light. However, my conclusion is that I am pleased that the VVD, perhaps after having thought about it for a while, is now interested in the rest of the Chamber for the rest of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u266	This is a strange argument, isn't it? In the first term, I have already told Mr Slob that I agree that we are trying to find out what happened. That is what I said to Mr Pechtold himself. That is not a closer understanding; I think that was clear from the beginning. It's about images and facts. I'm not saying that everything that was an image wasn't a fact and vice versa. I also noted that one of the issues raised in the debate was that the 1.25 million guilders was the end. I do not dispute in any way that this amount has been mentioned, but then the Minister sent a letter that created another reality. Is that good enough to explain what happened before that? No, that's what happened. The Minister was clear about this in the letter. Another image that emerged is that the minister would have resigned because of the deal that was made with Cees H. The Minister has resigned from office, which has been the subject of an exhaustive discussion, due to the fact that information appeared at his ministry from files that had been said to be non-existent a year ago. Those are all matters that matter. It is a good conclusion that we want that research to be very broad with each other. It's a bad conclusion, let's just admit honestly that we still don't know exactly what's going on. That frustration is, I think, shared by everyone. That's why it's a good thing to have an investigation done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u267	I was not really going to interrupt, but I think that a little more modesty would have ordained Mr Zijlstra. A year ago, the VVD told us that it was all over and that it wasn't necessary for anything. It then blocked every debate on this subject for a year or so. Now she says the opposition is scattering with images. At the end of the debate, however, it has to conclude that we did not know anything at all and it is good that an investigation is to be carried out. A little more modesty would have decorated Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u268	No, we also see tonight that certain things are getting mixed up. So I'm not taking back a word of that; it's just a fact. When it comes to first-term debates, there was an interrupting debate with Mr Samsom, I say: we allow debates if there are new facts. We have seen for a year that cases were brought which were not new facts. There was plenty of opportunity for a written debate. That's fed, too. If you want to have plenary debates, there must be new facts. There was now a new fact. This has led not only to this debate, but also to the ultimate political consequence. Two rulers have drawn their consequences. In view of the past of this dossier, and given what was written in the letter a year ago in conjunction with what was now coming up, I think that is understandable. I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u269	"We allow debates." That is what Mr Zijlstra says. That's power arrogance from the top shelf!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u270	We have 41 seats in this room. I'll talk about the VVD. I am from the VVD and not from a certain connection. The VVD assesses debate requests and votes in favour when new facts arise. Mr Pechtold now wants to give it a certain load. Sorry, that's the "very wanted" department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u271	Mr. Chairman. Taking responsibility for not informing the Chamber by resigning is justified. That is independent of whether or not there has been discussion. There are still a lot of questions about the actual course of events. Mr Slob has rightly asked for an independent investigation in the first term. The Prime Minister indicated in block 3 of his reply that he was also looking for a solution to this problem. So you're thinking, end of debate. Then it's just a few more hours of Cluedo, where we obviously don't come out. I would like to have the motion signed with the request for an independent committee. That is the outcome of this debate. I have also listened carefully to Mr Wilders' contribution on 18 March. Yes, there is also a liberal alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u272	Mr. Chairman. Teflon rules. No answers, no beginnings of an explanation for the Tevendeal and the East Indian forgetfulness of Teeven and Opstelten. We therefore support Mr Slob's motion for an inquiry. We have seen a Prime Minister who talks for 45 minutes in an hour, but does not give any clarity. He can do that, because the Labour Party hangs on to the VVD and vice versa, because that is the only survival strategy for both parties, at least until next Wednesday. A government that expects citizens to justify every receipt in the tax return, that even every toothbrush in the bathroom is accounted for in a benefit situation, a government that asks every entrepreneur to make a detailed declaration of the sales tax on the day on a fine, that government has today shown by the Prime Minister that when it comes to the government itself, it does not find it interesting whether shady deals with criminals are being made outside the tax system. The way in which citizens in our society are treated by the government is in stark contrast to the way in which representatives of the same government keep themselves and each other out of the wind. Voters are the only ones who can put an end to that. Power corrupts. The list of integrity issues within the major political parties shows that there is every reason for a electoral uprising.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u273	Madam President. 50PLUS also supports Mr Slob's motion, because much remains unclear. One of the questions I still have to deal with, which the Prime Minister will undoubtedly not answer, is the following. Cees H.'s money was in a bank in Luxembourg. That was black money. The deal transferred the money to a public prosecutor's office account. After that, it was partly returned to a Rabobank account of Cees H. I think that's called money laundering, and money laundering is punishable. Or isn't that true if this is done by the state's attorney's office? Isn't the then D.A. an accessory? The Prime Minister will really not answer this question, but the people at home really want to know. I hope they will get that answer someday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u274	This ended the second term of office. The Prime Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u275	I give the floor to the Prime Minister to respond to the motion tabled and to answer the questions that remain open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u276	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments on the outstanding questions. Mr Pechtold van D66 spoke of the control function of the House of Representatives. I agree with his comments on this point. Moreover, I do not see any tension between the way the cabinet and the coalition act and operate. I'll tell him I'll reflect on his words to see if there's anything else to take out. I always do that after this kind of debate. I see he's satisfied with that for the moment. Mr Van Ojik has expressed a number of suspicions about what may have happened in recent days. He's asking for an appreciation of those suspicions. I find that very difficult. Perhaps I could ask the President if he could make another attempt to ask a more specific question. I really tried to answer his question. This was also discussed in the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u277	Of course, Mr Van Ojik cannot sit in his chair on this plea from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u278	I'm saying it so Mr. Van Ojik...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u279	No, I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u280	Who am I, Mr President, to side with me this request from the Prime Minister? Of course you can't. It wasn't so much a conjecture. On the basis of the answers given by the Prime Minister in the first place to my questions, among other things, I found that after last Wednesday I said that I was concentrating on that period, and that I did not actually do anything to manage the crisis that unfolded. We have discussed it a number of times on Thursday, among other things, in connection with the regulation. It wasn't so much a speculation. It was a repetition of what the Prime Minister himself had said to me. My assumption is that the resignation of the rulers for a receipt might not have been necessary if the Prime Minister had acted more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u281	I'm afraid that's not true. I wish. From Wednesday evening I myself became closely involved in the subject by the broadcast of Nieuwsuur. We discussed the events of Sunday evening in detail in the first half of the year. These presented in themselves a cardinal development that necessitated the departure of the Minister of Security and Justice. We talked about that. Mr Van Ojik asks for further action from me. Should I have gone to the V & J Ministry to bring home the backup files so they couldn't be consulted? I take it Mr Van Ojik did not mean that kind of direction. I would have preferred nothing more, but I fear that more direction on my part would not have led to the retention of both rulers. There is no one who would have wished for this more than me. I come to the motion which is widely supported. As the Chamber knows, I prefer to take the initiative with another minister, but I understand that the Chamber wants more haste. I'll go along with that, of course. I will therefore leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. If she is accepted, I would like to implement her as follows. The motion asks to include in the research assignment the various aspects that I have appointed in my first term. I think they should be part of such an investigation. I would therefore like to do it a little more broadly than the motion outlines. The motion also asks to submit that research assignment to the Chamber. So that's what we're gonna talk about. Then there is every opportunity to discuss this with each other. So I would like to go a little bit wider than the motion says. The research assignment will come to the Chamber and we will therefore weigh it together, partly on the basis of the elements I appointed. For example, I spoke in the first term about communication, about what this means for aspects such as the leaking that took place in the department. That could or could not play a role in this investigation. We have also been asked how the committee can deal with secrecy. The committee must, of course, be able to do its job properly. It is difficult for me to give a ruling on how to deal with the obligation of confidentiality in the settlement. We will try to mention in the research assignment to the Chamber what possibilities there are for this, so that this can also be part of the discussion with the Chamber about the research assignment. So let me sort this out that way. We shall therefore also give a ruling on this in the commissioning of the committee, the commissioning of which the debate with the Chamber will then take place on the basis of this motion. Mr President, I believe that this has dealt with the questions that have been put and that the motion in question has also been dealt with. That, I believe, is the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-23.u282	We will vote next Tuesday on the motion tabled.
