ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. The speaking time is six minutes per group and we have just agreed that a maximum of two interruptions are allowed, with an interruption consisting of one question and a follow-up question. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you ask people what they're worried about the most, care is at the top. Much has changed in healthcare on 1 January of this year. This has caused a lot of uncertainty for people. I understand that very well, given all the changes. What doesn't really help is when the group chairman of one of the coalition parties shouts very loudly three months later that things have to be different and wants to deprive people of the opportunity to choose their own health care provider. That only increases the uncertainty. To the Secretary of State the question, regardless of the content, whether he was actually happy with the statements of the leader of the PvdA. That is not exactly a sign of trust, I think. In the coalition agreement of VVD and PvdA the agreement was included to cut up the district care. One part, which is about the care and so on, would go to the municipality and the other part, nursing and medical treatment, to the health insurance companies. That was an illogical step, because in the neighbourhood care everything is connected with everything. My colleague, Mr Bergkamp,'s motion to reverse this cut has therefore been voted in plenary. My group is pleased that the Secretary of State has listened to the Chamber. Then the question remained whether the district care would go to the municipality or to the health insurance companies. The cabinet chose the health insurance companies and as from 1 January this year it is also arranged. What is the content of the statements made by the leader of the government party PvdA for the reforms that have been undertaken? Is the Secretary of State gonna take them back in part? What is he going to do to remove the uncertainty created by this, uncertainty among the people who receive care and with the district nurses? The PvdA also wants to get rid of various healthcare providers and advocates land consolidation, in other words that people can no longer choose who comes to their homes. Instead, you're stuck with the healthcare provider who just happened to be selected within your zip code. Moreover, this land consolidation of the PvdA means that new innovative healthcare providers will not be given a chance, whereas this is one of the key objectives of the long-term care reform. D66 doesn't opt for zip code care, and I hope the Secretary of State doesn't either. I'd like to get a confirmation from him. We are in the Chamber, I think, quickly agreeing that we should not burden district nurses with ticking lists, extensive minute registrations and other red tape. A motion from the SP was therefore supported last year by almost the entire opposition. However, the PvdA voted against the motion. I can't rhyme with that at all: last year I voted against a motion and now I call for exactly the same thing. I don't know if you understand anymore, Mr. Chairman. We all recognize the image that health insurers sometimes shoot into their familiar reflexes and ask for a lot of accountability. The Secretary of State also writes that unnecessary bureaucracy must be avoided. That sounds really good, too, but what's he gonna do about it? Does he want to talk to health insurers and address them in their tendency to ask for more and more accountability? In the financing of the district care, there is a cut between the real care tasks and the more coordinating tasks of the district nurse. However, it was precisely the intention that the district nurse should be given an integral role. We were quite unhappy with that here. The Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa) has recently issued an opinion and the Minister of VWS is now studying it. Can the Secretary of State say tonight that the distinction between, in that terrible jargon, S1 and S2 disappears from next year? Is he actually gonna put the neighborhood care fully at the population benefit, as the PvdA wants? D66 has successfully made a commitment to anchoring the personal budget in the Health Insurance Act. Fortunately, we were not alone in that either. As a result, almost 50,000 people kept their pgb after January 1st, but we see that everywhere I let it be very softly expressed. In addition, health insurance companies reject many pgb applications and district nurses find it difficult to identify properly. It is often not possible to combine a pgb with care in kind. Will the Secretary of State undertake to identify the problems together with Per Recht and to resolve them where necessary? And when can the Chamber expect the bill that anchors pgb in the Health Insurance Act? We are having this debate tonight because statements by the PvdA group chairman have led to new uncertainty and thus new uncertainty among people about the changes in care. Today it will be clear whether the PvdA is going through and really wants to change something, for example with motions, or whether it was a test balloon. If it is that first, then my group will look very seriously at it, as always. If the second turns out, then the PvdA has only created new uncertainty without a real solution. I'd be very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	What did the D66 Group think of Mr Samsom's criticism? The minute registration and the re-indications had to be cancelled. Does she support Mr Samsom's speech and, if so, what does she think must have changed tonight if we are to go home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	As I pointed out in my speech, we also supported the motion on minute registration at the time. We want to get rid of that, too. In addition, the health insurance companies themselves have already indicated that 1 May is a very soft deadline for the indications and that there is plenty of room to go over them. I think it is very logical that they should be indicated, but I think it is important that we establish the following with each other tonight. We have just begun a reform that is rather radical. We have seen how people in the route prior to the entry date have expressed their concerns. Neighborhood nurses themselves say that they think that they are very upset and that we should not, above all, consider doing this differently. It is very important that we give health insurers and district nurses the opportunity to bring this to a successful conclusion. It is particularly important that insurers also have a duty of care due to the fact that the health care department is part of the Health Insurance Act. That's a big profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	Not only should the interruptions be short, but also the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I thought I did well at the first chance I had. I have a follow-up question. The minute registrations should be off the table and the re-indications aren't that hard, but I think most of them are already ready. But what exactly should be settled? 'Cause I didn't hear that. Just saying here that it is important that it happens and that one has to talk, is not going to help. We are talking about long-term care. 75% of people in community care are people who need care for the rest of their lives or who have had it their whole lives. It is important that we join them. And health insurance companies have their own business operations. Does Mrs Dijkstra agree with me that the law should be amended? This is, after all, the only way to enforce it on health insurers if they decide not to adapt their business to the nature of this long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	Three months after it entered into force, it is far too early for me to say: we must amend the law. I'd like to see how that goes first. I want to see how this will take shape in this year. Where there are problems, we certainly need to deal with them. I also asked the Secretary of State to talk to the health insurers about bureaucracy, which we are always talking about in curative care, and to look at the sometimes rigid way in which health insurers take charge. Friday we have a big round table discussion about the Health Insurance Act and how these changes take shape after the law has been killed in the First Chamber. So I think that's too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. People are insecure. They're wondering how it's gonna be if they want to stay home longer. They can't do it alone. In addition, if it turns out that they are not eligible for nursing homes, they think: what am I supposed to do? We heard this from an employee of Neighborhood Care from Apeldoorn, who was followed by Nieuwsuur. She finds that many elderly and demented people are not well able to organise help through their own network. Some of them barely have a network of district nurses, and for those people you wish that they get the care of Neighborhood care, their support and leave. The neighborhood nurse back and all the space to do what is necessary for and of course also with vulnerable people: that is a long-cherished desire of the SP. When Agnes Kant made proposals for this in 2005, she was still alone in this Chamber, but now we are politically united that the district nurse should return, and preferably without as many rules as there are now. But it's stuck. The bureaucracy under which the care sighed was already immensely large, but since the introduction of the new healthcare system everyone is even more concerned with forms and reinventing the wheel. All people have a new indication, because imagine people getting too much care. How much is this going to cost? That's how I ask the Secretary of State. It also creates uncertainty among all those people who need a new indication. We've had a lot of debates about the district nurses. When I asked for a motion before the summer to prevent another minute registration and accountability madness, the Labour Party and the VVD voted against. Are they sorry now? Because a new bureaucracy takes a lot of time. The re-indications and indications cost 25% of the time of district nurses. They already say they're too few to do the job properly. They also say the cuts are starting to tighten. Last week, the party leader of the Labour Party, Samsom, blamed the health insurance companies. He accused them of carrying out what Van Rijn, the Labour Secretary's Party, ordered them to cut 20%, this year 400 million less and structurally 600 million less. Where does that lead? Reindications. And where does that lead? Digging lists. I'm actually wondering if that's going to go away right now. I expect a proposal from the Labour Party, and otherwise I will submit it myself. Labour leader Samsom's party had another heart cry. The market forces in the district care sector continue and are actually undesirable. I fully agree with that. It is the choice for a face, the person who helps you and not for the emblem of the care institution on the jacket. We see in Neighborhood care how so-called innovative care should be primarily personal care, care with time. What is the Secretary of State really gonna do about all these double organizations in the neighborhood? I expect, of course, a proposal from the Labour Party on this point, otherwise I shall table a motion myself. The Party leader of the Labour Party, who unfortunately does not participate in this debate today, calls on his Secretary of State to change the policy after having had many intern days in the district nursing. It is certainly a gain that there seems to be a change in the position of the Labour Party. Whether or not it is, today will prove to be the case. But isn't it sad that internships were needed for that? Have we not been reminded of this bureaucracy for years? Have we not been reminded in the preliminary draft budget of the risks involved? Has it not been deliberately said yes to a financing system whereby district nurses have only been given more bureaucracy? Those are all questions to the Secretary of State. General practitioners ring the bell that people are lonely and neglecting behind the front door. For example, less supervision causes dehydration. Because of budget cuts, there's no more day-to-day spending. It all seems small suffering when you're healthy and you're not involved. However, it is great suffering if it affects you. It causes disruption: not being sure what your life looks like anymore, of how your support is arranged. I am surprised that Mr Samsom, the leader of the Labour Party, did not recognize this disruption in all his internship days as a problem. I am attracted to the fear and sorrow of the older generation in our country and of the chronically ill, who have seen many changes in care accumulated. They're insecure. They have higher costs. They're being sent from the locker to the wall. They feel too much for this society and say: I don't need it like this anymore. I ask the Secretary of State whether we should not be deeply concerned that these elderly and chronically ill people feel too much for this society through a stack of policies, being sent from the locker to the wall, and by the constant repetition that care is too expensive, that it is too expensive. Then I wonder: would that take a six-month internship? Or can we just say today: no, you're part of it, we stop the cuts and let the neighborhood nurse really do her job?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	I would like to say that my group chairman did not need an internship with the district nurses to see the importance of that position. The Labour Party has been working for ten years, actually for 11 years now, to bring the district nurse back to the neighbourhoods. In 2004, my group colleague, Mr Khadija Arib, now the chairman, tabled the first motion for a resolution. Has Mrs Leijten been unaware of the fact that the Labour Party has been working for ten years this year it has been eleven years to get the district nurse back? Has it escaped her notice that this cabinet will pay 200 million dollars to organise one extra ward nurse in each general practitioners' practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	I'm gonna go into that last one first. This is money in 2017, while in 2015 400 million is being cut and in 2016 structuralally 600 million. It is nice that we are looking at how we can put a district nurse next to a general practitioner and in a district team. We will certainly consider how this can be organised in the best and least bureaucratic way. But saying that you're investing in the neighborhood nurse while you're cutting so hard doesn't seem wise. And yes, we've been hanging out more often in the past. However, it has also occurred, I can say, that in the period of government in which Secretary of State Bussemaker was allowed to make the policy on behalf of the Labour Party, for example, the district nurse did not return. It had to be some kind of investigation back then. But then we could have dealt with it in the funding, then we could have already abolished all those products and minutes registrations, which were already discussed at the time in the Chamber, which we discussed together at the time. As I said, the SP is pleased that the district nurse is getting her position back. If this can be improved, then we will always support proposals, but the district nurse is not from the Labour Party and the Labour Party really does not introduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	Let me make one thing clear: the neighborhood nurse is mostly his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	We're debating to keep it that way. I would also like to point out that Mrs Leijten is really suffering from some sort of amnesia. During the period of that same cabinet with Secretary of State Bussemaker, Mariëtte Hamer, the then group chairman, organized the first 10 million extra for the Visible Switch during the general political considerations. That was the beginning of the return of the neighborhood nurse in the neighborhood. So that was also in the period with Bussemaker as Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	We just agreed not to give personal qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	Whether I beg of forgetfulness or of whatever is being accused, it seems that sometimes I am deemed necessary. I have not forgotten that. We supported that at the time. However, we also asked the Labour Party why it should be a pilot. Why couldn't we just say: we abolish that for helping with support stockings stands five minutes and for administering certain medication an x-number of minutes and that there are ticking lists? We could have arranged that at the time. At that time we could have arranged for the bureaucratic system, which it has been for years, and the "think away" of the district nurse to be over by bureaucracy. I know there was a pilot then, but the policy could have been changed at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	I wouldn't call it a pilot. It was just the beginning of the return of the neighborhood nurse. I think it is important to have made that remark here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	I think the district nurse has come back, among other things, because Neighborhood care has been established, which showed that things can be different, against the cliffs and with the back to all the rules that have been made. And neighborhood care still notes that the rules, created by the government and executed by health insurance companies, are wringing. The Labour Party should listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	Keep it tidy, Mrs. Gerbrands adds me. I'll take that reminder to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	I don't know you any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	Madam President. Stupid judgements on healthcare reform since 1 January sound attractive, but it is simply too early for that. What we can certainly say at the moment is that we are working very hard and many problems have been solved, but there is also a lot to do and a long way to go. We do not see any reason to say, as a result of developments over the last few months, that all of a sudden the helm has to change. Decentralisation on the one hand and the reordering of responsibilities on the other hand, with more care for each other and less government, must be pursued in a steady and steady manner. At the same time, we must keep our ears and eyes wide open to identify bottlenecks and make improvements. A very important issue at this stage is the removal of uncertainties and uncertainties that citizens and healthcare providers encounter. The Council of State had an interesting annual report on 2014. In it was warned of new wine in old sacks. Those who read the footnote notice that the Bible knowledge of the Council of State is great, because it refers to Matthew 9, verse 17: you should not put young wine in old leather bags. So it's not about old wine in new bags. No, it's about new wine in old bags. That's the subtlety. If you put new wine in old leather bags, those bags will rip and the wine will be lost. The Council is merely saying: beware of old reflexes; the reforms also call for a consistent perseverance and complement. I think this is a fair remark if you look around. Family care, with greater care for each other, requires an active and supportive role of municipalities, which, as far as we are concerned, is still under-explored. I would like to avoid getting into the old reflex of expecting anything from the Secretary of State, but can he still play an exciting role in the direction of municipalities, in order to point out to them the importance of supporting the caregiver? There is also a national task, but we will come back to that later, for example in the context of the tax system. That will also have to be in time, for example in not punishing but encouraging care for each other. An additional boost is also needed in reducing red tape. A retreat from regulation and bureaucracy was announced, but that is still disappointing. The examples of the district nurses are widely known, as are the danger of all kinds of registrations and too busy with office work rather than a concrete involvement in care in the district. What can the Secretary of State also mean in this, for example in addressing the health insurance companies, in order to contain the old reflexes of control and control? Reducing uncertainty I mentioned as an important point at this stage. I am also thinking of the risk of the loss of health which sometimes threatens to be caused by the suffering that one fears. That's what I find in my work visits. "How's our budget?', Asks the small home care institution. "We have to be very careful." But do people get generously the care they deserve? I am also thinking of sheltered housing, which in the end, as I understand from the letter of the Secretary of State, is a problem of division between municipalities. However, we hear from institutions that they are very concerned about how this goes with their clients. When can we get more clarity in that? And when will there be clarity for municipalities about the distribution model that will be used? Course stability is also required in guaranteeing freedom of choice. The motto of more uniformity and clarity sounds good in itself, but then, of course, freedom of choice must not be overturned. The freedom of choice must remain intact. I have noted with interest the internship experiences of Mr Samsom. It is very good that he informs himself in practice. He was worried about the orange and blue sweaters he encountered, but I hope that will only replace red sweaters in every lot of the country? Isn't it very good that people can choose a beautiful orange sweater or a blue sweater? The care that lies behind this is in line with their wishes and needs. Can the Secretary of State confirm that he doesn't want to mess with that freedom of choice? We believe it is very important that identity-related care is in line with the cultural and philosophical background of the citizens, of the clients. The Secretary of State states in his letter with a look at the reforms and the way in which they are now going, that there is a need for additions in this respect for the plans from 1 January 2016. I have to say that it seems that this is still too little between the ears. How is it ensured that this will work in the future? I'm closing up. This debate has been announced under the heading "status of health care reforms'. That status seems clear to us. It's a lot of work in progress. And the motto that goes with this is: keep working hard and keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr. Chairman. Whose care is ours? If you put this question to random people on the street, maybe nine out of ten people would say: from the health insurance companies or perhaps from the government. Is this the right answer? I think it is an understandable answer, but this is not what the Christian Union wants. The care is of society, of the people who need care and also of the people who provide care to the fellow man, as a caregiver or as a care professional. The Christian Union wants more society in care. That is why we want to give the municipalities more responsibility to organise care close to people, around people and if that is possible also with their neighbors. Where are we now? We're in the middle of a transition. 2015 is a transition year. When I look around, I see a lot going well. I was last at a WMO night in my own adoption district, the French Gate in Veenendaal. There, volunteers told us about their project, the Front Door, at the community center. I quote: they can tell us their story and together we can see how we can help someone, whether we are filling out forms, family care or ideas for the neighborhood. In the same district the supermarket and the butcher supply products for district meals and the church does not only do the doors on Sundays. These are initiatives that warm me up. But there's another side too. There's still a lot of loneliness among the elderly. People's domestic help is cut short, without a call being made. The number of confused people on the street is increasing. These are developments that the Christian Union is deeply concerned about. And I'm not even talking about the payout problems of the pgbs. Although they are independent of decentralisation, they must be well organised to organise care close to people. I want to walk by a number of points, first of all, protected living. We don't want this to get in the way. More and more municipalities report because they do not come up with the available budget: Assen, Zwolle, Ede, Apeldoorn, the Drechtsteden and so on. There's no cutback on sheltered housing, but the money's been misdistributed. How's the Secretary of State gonna straighten this out? Can this still be done, since the municipalities have their budgets and we are in the current year 2015? There are a large number of legal procedures on domestic aid. That's what we wanted to avoid, isn't it? Customization is the key word in the new Wmo, but people feel inadequate by their congregation who often doesn't even bother to have a personal conversation, while this is a legal obligation. I can only conclude one thing, unfortunately: the Wmo has had a bad start, at least for this part. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? How are the regional ombudsmen that the Christian Union has called for and on which a chamber motion has also been adopted? You cannot fight loneliness with money, at least not only with money. It's gonna take more than that. It is precisely the organisation of care close to people that should offer more opportunities to combat isolation. How do we ensure that older people receive care, but above all the appreciation and respect they deserve? I don't think you can force this change by law, but we can create the right conditions. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, these are the following points. Support the carers in the combination of care and work, also later in the new tax plan. Ensure sufficient daily spending, including for specific target groups such as people with dementia or non-congenital brain injury; the Christian Union finds it incomprehensible that municipalities cut down to 50% on daily spending. And make sure home care is in order. The Labour Party is now also concerned about the latter. Foreman Diederik Samsom dislikes the bureaucracy the district nurses run into. He wants to delete the requirement to have the new indications ready by 1 May. My question to the Labour Party is: is there perhaps a moment's notice? How long have we been talking about bureaucracy in healthcare here? And isn't the reaction of the inter-branch organisation of nurses also very balanced, namely that it is understandable that demands are made by health insurance companies, after all, it is a question of Community money, but that these requirements must be sensible and not be applied in all directions by insurer? And has the Labour Party also seen that the demand of 1 May has long been released? Of course, this should apply to all health insurers. My conclusion is: it was a lot of tammem, which has only caused a lot of unrest. The bottom line is that we want to get away from the culture of digging, give confidence to the healthcare professional and show the district nurse that it is possible. Indicting, organizing and caring lie in one hand. I see that the indication currently takes up to 25% of the time; money that does not go to care. That's too much, too much. It is a question of working pressure, although temporary, but still. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? What does he think about district nurses prefer not to indicate for the pgb, as the industry organisation reports? How do we solve that? How do we prevent two types of district nurses from forming? What is the Secretary of State going to do about some health insurers rejecting as many as two thirds of the pgb applications, or not allowing a combination of pgb and care in kind? Does this not put pressure on freedom of choice? Is it true that the evaluation of the household care rate takes place only in the summer? Does the Secretary of State therefore wish to extend the transitional period from 1 May to 1 September? And how's the case manager on dementia? We received an emergency letter today. In 2016, the problem of funding was resolved, according to the Secretary of State, but the dementia chains are now falling. I'm rounding up. I like to look forward and see where we want to go: take care close to organizing people. Much remains to be done for this. This year, many people will be able to rely on transitional arrangements and money that will not be available next year. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, continuing monitoring of vulnerable groups is not only desirable but also very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. This is a bit of a weird debate. We are talking to the PvdA Secretary of State and about statements by the PvdA group chairman with the PvdA spokesperson's concern. It would have decorated Mr Samsom if he had held the debate himself. I think no one understands it anymore and I also wonder if they understand it at the Labour Party themselves. The Labour Party strongly opposes the care plans of this cabinet; the care plans of its own PvdA Secretary of State. At least, we have to believe that. They're not gonna do that with the honest story. It started with the terrible interview in NRC, in which Diederik Samsom prides himself on the fact that he is doing an internship in home care. I totally agree with a former colleague of the district nurse he walked with. She wondered how it is possible that you as a politician in the home care internship as district nurse. After all, an internship is a period of practical practice as part of a training course. Well, Mr. Samsom isn't in training with an HBO set-up. She said it doesn't do justice to the real nurse. Does the Secretary of State agree with this neighborhood nurse? As far as my group is concerned, this also applies to Mr Samsom's statement that 'everyone can get someone out of bed and wash them'. In response to questions I asked, the Secretary of State conjured with the terms "coach carers" and "volunteers." This does not do justice to all those carers who are forced or not to take physical care of their relatives. The setting up of Mr Samsom's work as "he does no more than a caregiver" not only pisses me off, but is also contrary to the undertaking that personal care is to be washed is personal care only to be carried out by professionals. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will rectify this once and for all tonight. Then there was the Labour Party's Council of Members, where we heard the group chairman say that 5 billion has been saved to give the district nurse more room. The fair story is, of course, that there has been a reduction in nursing and care from 400 million, rising to 600 million. What do you mean, more space? The 40 million-dollar Band-Aid Band-Aid doesn't stop the bleeding. In addition, thousands of demented people will lose their case manager dementia because of the plans of this PvdA cabinet. The case manager dementia is housed in the district care, but of course without an extra penny. The number of hours is cut and a quarter of the case managers have already been fired. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Then I would also like to know what the savings will be if these demented elderly will use a more expensive form of care as a result of the disappearance of a case manager. Is it still getting better this way? During that same membership council, Samsom granted entitlement to nursing and care without having settled his own contribution. The fair story is that the law was already there under the AWBZ and that the assignment is for insurers to take care of. So I ask the PvdA Group: what right is now settled? Another statement by Mr Samsom: we have always said that we must intervene if things go wrong. The Labour Party would have done better to support the many requests made by my group and by other groups to talk about this transfer. We could have warned against all these problems: the power of the health insurance companies, the consequences of the mega-savings, the cut in the district nurse care and the increase in bureaucracy. Then we could have referred to the great example for most parliamentary groups: Neighborhood care Netherlands. Neighborhood care should have been a model for the improvement of nursing and care, the care in the neighborhood. Where the new district nurses now state not to meet the deadline for setting indications on 1 May, market leader Neighborhood care reports that almost all indications have been completed with him. The great PvdA leader argued at Pauw for this deadline to run. How can you complain about meddling and negotiating power of health insurance companies if you have chosen to place it there as a party yourself? And then there is the call to finance care in a different way, based on the composition of the district and rewarding good outcomes. Anything would get better. The fair story is that this not only reduces the freedom of choice, but that this substantial change in the method of financing entails high implementation costs. That money has to come from somewhere. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to these proposals. As far as my group is concerned, there is only one place for nursing and care. That's the Wlz. Neighborhood care The Netherlands has proven this with cheaper and more efficient care without management and without unnecessary rules. So the question now is: was Mr Samsom's cry for the bühne or are we going to get butter on the fish of the Labour Party and are we really going to give the district nurse the room she deserves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the PvdA group chairman made a remarkable statement. He was dissatisfied with the implementation of the district care by the health insurance companies. Firstly, the regulatory burden, the minute registrations and the limited space for the district nurse to do her expert work were terrible. Secondly, the deadline of 1 May for the re-indications of the table had to be met. This is a criticism of matters that are directly the result of the PvdA's support for this policy, namely privatising community nursing. Regret comes after sin, but there is also such a thing as moving insight. For the CDA, what is going to change in the policy of this PvdA Secretary of State, so that the people who depend on community care, and the district nurses themselves, are getting ahead. There's something else I need to get off my chest. After Mr Samsom's press release, the Secretary of State responded consistently, at least by means of a press release. He felt supported by his party leader, he said. In the press release of the ministry of VWS, the Secretary of State wrote: "The law offers sufficient opportunities to give the professional space." What law did he mean by this? We believe that care and support provided by district nurses is covered by the Health Insurance Act. And this law gives a great deal of freedom to health insurers to shape their own business without political interference. The CDA has already indicated at the end of 2013 that with the choices made by this cabinet, there will soon be less care, less control and more pay. With the CDA, many others have indicated this. Anyway, what changed after tonight, after this debate? I'll give you the questions from the CDA. The re-indications should be removed. It'll be May 1st in 15 days. You can assume that a lot of re-indications have already been done. Neighborhood care, Thebe and Cordaan are already ready. What if those re-indications or that date go off the table? What does that mean for the people who have already had a re-indication? I'd like to hear that. The re-indications had to be done because a saving of 400 million had to be achieved. Suppose the Secretary of State says we're gonna do it differently, that the health insurance companies are gonna do it differently. What does that mean for this amount? In the letter of 14 April following the regulation of work, the Secretary of State writes: "The district nurse is a move and determines what commitment of care is necessary and appropriate." Is that right? We hear that health insurance companies decide to overrule the district nurse's indications. Will the State Secretary amend the Health Insurance Act so that the district nurse is actually the one who dictates and cannot be overruled by another opinion of the health insurance provider on what is needed? I'll be on the minute registrations. If I'm frustrated and want to express myself neatly, I call it the regularity. I've been asking questions about this. The answer was that a number of health insurers would have already stopped after a good conversation with the Secretary of State. Some others would do it very quickly. It is right, quite rightly, that attention has been paid to this. When is it finally over? What's the Secretary of State gonna do when a health insurance company says, "This is my way of making your cut?" Will the law be amended? There are all kinds of other things that have to do with the choice made by a majority of this Chamber to bring care services under the Health Insurance Act. I call it pgb; a number of speakers before me have said a few things about it. I mention dementia care, but also the household care rate of €20 per hour. We are concerned that this will lead to situations in which people opt for the much more expensive care in kind. It can also lead to pressure on inpatient care, because people don't get it done at home anymore. The CDA has tabled a motion to find out what the impact of its introduction is. Unfortunately, the motion was voted down, also by the PvdA Group. In view of the concerns of that group about community care, about pgb, about vulnerable people, I wonder if she would support the motion if I were to retable it today. I also mention the bizarre snipe between the S1 and the S2 care. It is a bureaucratic monstrosity, in which one district nurse dictates and takes care of the other. Quite rightly, Jos de Blok said: nurses always do prevention. Is this going to end too, or is there a need for a motion for a resolution? Anyway, it's the way it is, we're in the middle of it; all the plans have been implemented and not always with the support of the CDA. But today is the time to make it clear whether the Secretary of State's first reaction via that press release was damage control or whether something is actually going to change. If not, Diederik Samsom's action was a chat for the stage. I hope it is not, and I hope that something has changed for patients, clients, carers and district nurses when we leave here tonight, that they have moved a step further. Because that's how the CDA really likes to look at the care: what does it mean for the people involved? I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is proud of district nurses for their dedication, passion and professionalism. Under this cabinet the neighborhood nurse returns permanently to our neighbourhoods and neighborhoods, and as a result many people can be cared for and nursed in their own environment. That is what my group stands for: good care close. We must ensure that our district nurses have confidence and space for appropriate care. It's about not looking at songs, but people. The purchase and financing of care should make this possible. You can do much better there. Some aspects of the implementation are crippling for community care: the administrative burden, unnecessary registrations, deadlines for re-indications and even more of those nasty things. More courage is needed from the cabinet and insurers in order to make the reform even more effective on this point. Fortunately, organisations such as Neighborhood care are also showing that it can be done every day. It has been mentioned here a number of times this evening as well as more and more other organisations that work in the same way. The Labour Party wants to get rid of the payment per operation and minute. The current funding is far too complex and leads to too much registration. So this has to be radically different and simpler, and the cabinet is working on it as well. This means for all concerned, for health insurers and providers, that they give the district nurse confidence to provide the most appropriate care and cooperate with the general practitioner and the district team. In this way, we must get rid of unnecessary registrations. This results in profits for the patient and his environment, for caregivers and for contributors. That must be, as we imagine, appeal to everyone. Neighborhood nurses want and can work in this way, but not if the system focuses too much on accountability and control rather than on the best-suited care. My group's question to the Secretary of State is therefore how he will take the population cost a step further in the coming years. The Labour Party also wants as few different rates as possible. In the current funding, the district nurse gets lost in a forest of different products and rates and in stacks of papers. My group finds that indigestible. It leads to control drive and division of tasks. The Labour Party therefore wants, in addition to population benefits, to reach only a few different rates. If there is less to be registered, the administrative pressure immediately decreases in practice, we see that also happen simply as well as district nurses can also fully focus on providing good, appropriate care. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State whether he supports my plea for only a few different rates. The Labour Party also wants more room for the trade. The system should give more space to the profession and to the dedication of the district nurses. They need confidence and space to provide appropriate care. This means that the focus should be on quality of life. In addition, it is up to the patients themselves to learn things. That must be the starting point. The man who can no longer use his insulin pen after a stroke would receive a blunt indication of ten minutes a day in the old system. In the system we want, for example, in the first few weeks he gets an extra half hour of ergotherapy to learn to hold his pen so that he can use it himself as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	Before you proceed, Mrs Dijkstra has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	I listen with interest to the views of the PvdA on the district nurse. As a result of her speech, I wondered whether the PvdA would support motions reflecting the statements made by the PvdA group chairman on community care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	From our own group chairman? Is that the question? Would you like to know whether we support motions from our own group chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	Well, that's not exactly the question and it also seems logical to me that that is not the question. I am referring to motions which support the policy proposed by the PvdA group chairman himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	I intend to do that later. I think that in itself is a good answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	So, if I understand correctly, for example, the PvdA will vote for a motion to cancel the minutes registration. We voted on such a motion last year and then the PvdA was not in favour of it. Will the PvdA support such a motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	I was just thinking: this is going to be a competition who in the Lower House wanted to take the first minute registration and administrative pressure off the table. I once googled which motions have been tabled by my own party and myself in order to achieve that. I believe I tabled my first motion on this in 2009. I do not know exactly what was said in the motion that we voted against; we are usually opposed to motions because there are things that are wrong in practice or lead to major problems in implementation, for example, to more administrative pressure. If Mrs Dijkstra retables the same motion, probably the reason why the PvdA voted against at the time has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mrs Dijkstra, you have a second interruption. You may or may not use it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	No, Mr. Chairman, on another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	On 3 July, following a general consultation, we discussed the area of nursing. The SP then asked the government by motion to ensure that no new minute registration and stopwatch care would occur in the new district care. The PvdA voted against this motion. Of course, this is what D66's question was about. Now the leader of the party of the PvdA is right to say that the care of the neighbourhood is being subject to bureaucracy and registration. Is it possible for the PvdA to vote in favour of proposals from others if they are tabled today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	Of course, the PvdA is very often in favour of proposals from others if they are good, and that is not a serious obstacle for us, as you know. I don't know the context. Often the atmosphere in which a motion is tabled and the context of the motion are important to be somewhere for or against. This motion is based on a division of the health care department, in which the nurse still goes to the municipality and the nurse to the Health Insurance Act. I can imagine that's something the PvdA didn't want to go along with, because the PvdA was in the Health Insurance Act for inclusion of the district nurse care. I do not know the context and I have not read the Acts, but I can imagine that was a motive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mrs Wolbert states that she does not know the context and the Acts, but she does know why she rejected the motion. But it wasn't about the thought that there was a part here or there anymore. It was already clear at that time how it was going to go down. But precisely because different changes were taking place, we asked the government not to create new bureaucracy. That motion has not been passed, and that is unfortunate. The fact that the PvdA now finds that the bureaucracy is too bad and needs to be removed, of course deserves support. However, it is justified that we should ask why the PvdA does not support others when they propose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	If other groups today table motions that strongly support your party leader's plea, will the PvdA Group vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	A motion was tabled last year. My colleague Otwin van Dijk, but I, too, have, of course, tabled such motions at regular intervals. No one's for bureaucracy and minute registration. First of all, I'm noticing that. Secondly, it probably had a reason for voting specifically against a motion. I know from this motion that there was a split between care and nursing that we did not share. Maybe that's why. Thirdly, the PvdA often comes with a better motion or has its own motion. In these cases, it does not support the opposition, but retains that of the coalition. That's the way it is in this room sometimes. I do not know exactly what the considerations were at the time. Without Acts, it is difficult to consult. I am now trying to reconstruct and conclude that the PvdA is heartily opposed to bureaucracy and minute registration. She's mordicus against extra administrative pressure. She's been saying that for years in this house. It probably did not support that special motion because of its content or context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	Just for the content and context: the Secretary of State called it policy support and left it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	And the PVV wasn't even under it! The PvdA always votes against a motion when it comes from the PVV. That's what I wanted to say. Mrs Wolbert says that we are tabling better motions. There are only PVV-motions that she takes over. Let's not argue about that. Her party sat at the table when agreements were made on the coalition agreement. We have been talking in this house for years about the neighbourhood care concept with one product, one price, one lead time. Why didn't the Labour Party just arrange that? She herself is responsible for transferring it to the health insurance companies in this way, but is now screaming murder and fire. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	Then let me make a factual statement. 2015 is a transition year, in which we still work with the old AWBZ-funded categories, as you know. In it we do the old AWBZ registrations. In all honesty, the Labour Party is incredibly keen to get rid of this. If I go a little further in my speech, you will hear what I have just said, namely that the Labour Party really wants to move towards a situation where rates are reduced. What Neighborhood care has ever started is a real example for us. So I don't necessarily see a contradiction. We want nothing more than to get rid of the old-fashioned AWBZ rates, which are still being applied during the transitional period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	Neighborhood care The Netherlands has also worked under the AWBZ. We have tabled a motion on the neighbourhood care concept with one product, one price, one lead time. You also voted against this motion, at the end of last year, after your party stopped several requests for a debate on the area of nursing, in which we wanted to raise these points. Last minute there was a consultation, while the transfer was already a fact. I find it very cheap that you are now blowing so high off the tower!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	That wasn't a question. I don't know where the agitation surrounding the Labour Party's relationship with district nurses comes from. If there is one party that has always, year in, year out, cabinet in, cabinet out, since 2004 tried to come step by step to the situation we are in now, it is the Labour Party. Thanks to the PvdA it is now back in the neighborhoods and in the neighborhoods and women get the job they are proud of. I understand that sometimes things aren't perfect, but in my eyes, it looks pretty. The PvdA didn't do that alone. It has required the support of all parties in the Chamber. I wholeheartedly agree with those who say that it is not good enough, but let us count our blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	My conclusion is that the Labour Party itself has caused a lot of tamham in the media, but has merely stirred up unrest. What is this evening the concrete plan of the Labour Party to reduce the regulatory burden in the care sector? What proposal is the Labour Party going to make tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	Then I must ask permission to finish my speech, but I have just said that the Labour Party simply wants to go to far less rates, one or a few. We also want to go to a population benefit, which is also stated in the government agreement and is therefore a cabinet proposal. This means that you can arrange much more regional and client-related, so population-related funding, as should be regulated by general practitioners throughout the first line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	I hear what Mrs Wolbert is saying, but we are now also faced with district nurses who drown in the pressure of regulation and tick culture. Mr Samsom raised this point. We've been working on this as a Chamber for years. Proposals have been made from the opposition that the Labour Party has not supported. So my question remains what the Labour Party is going to do tonight to help these people. Then I don't want to talk about 2020. What do the people who are now drowning in the pressure of regulation have to do with the contribution of the Labour Party tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	Let me say first of all that I am pleased with a group chairman and with everyone who stands up for the district nurses and who denounces the regulatory pressure, the administrative pressure and the tick culture. Now it was Diederik Samsom, but before it was other people. If there is a picture of a party leader and a district nurse on the bike in the newspaper, it seems to be something everyone is talking about. I think we are all allies in the fight against administrative pressure, tick culture and minute recording. I have already mentioned my solution to this. The PvdA wants to achieve a far-reaching simplification of the number of products and tariffs. This is so arranged at Buurtzorg Nederland, it has been introduced by neighborhood care organisations and it is good. The Secretary of State is now in the process of designing a new financing structure. It cannot be easy enough for the Labour Party. That is the step forward that we must take now. We do not want the administrations as they are now in the old AWBZ. We do not want it to be the way in which the NZa opinion points out. The Secretary of State has already said that he does not want to go to a care package structure in nursing care. I'm happy about that. We do want a simple, simple tariff structure, with one or a few rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	With all due respect, Mrs Wolbert is now playing down the remarks of her group chairman. He wrote an opinion piece of his own and then got interviewed everywhere in the media. He said that things really have to be different from the way they are now. He does so three months after the reforms have entered into force and after the new system has entered into force, when everyone is restless and wonders how things are going to go and whether things are going to go well. Mrs Wolbert just said: if someone has always defended the district nurses, that is the PvdA; that is all we are doing. That is what I hear Mrs Wolbert say: the way we are now doing things are going well. She then contradicts her group chairman again, because I do not hear her suggesting exactly what she wants to do. Or is that still going to happen and are we going to get motions tonight that will give us a direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	I haven't said at any time tonight that I think it's good enough now; not at all! The Labour Party says, as I said earlier, that more courage is needed in order to make reforms even more effective in this area. I would like to repeat that once again; I mean that sincerely. The direction is good, the choices are good in the Health Insurance Act: the district nurses move, no more indications by the CIZ. These are steps in the right direction. We work in this transitional year in a registration system that is still from the AWBZ. The PvdA thinks we should get rid of that as soon as possible. We need to get rid of that complex accountability structure. We need to get rid of that complex product structure. We certainly should not go to some kind of care-gravity package structure in the neighborhood nurse care as the Dutch Healthcare Authority advised. As far as I'm concerned, we're on the same page. The direction is good, but it is not good enough; it should be better. The accountability burden is still too high. We need to move towards a system with one or a few tariffs, so that we can report back at a few rates and be accountable, as some organisations are already doing. That has been mentioned a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	I am curious to see what Mrs Wolbert thinks of the land consolidation that her group chairman is advocating. Mr Van der Staaij has described it graphically. He used the image of the orange and blue jersey that visit different homes and different residents of those homes next to each other. Is Mrs Wolbert going to suggest this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	Yeah, I like that land consolidation... Let me tell you the other way around. The Chamber has discussed in various consultations with the directors, not only in this cabinet but also in previous cabinets, the enormous inefficiency that arises when you see seven or eight different providers in a district traveling the same or almost the same routes. You always ask yourself: it must be possible to do better and it must be possible to do better. If the cabinet is now looking for other forms of financing of the district nurse care, you would want a solution to be found for that too. That may be placing, but in practice there are other ways to prevent the same route from being driven eight times. The art is of course to leave people the choice on the one hand, because we do not want to go to some kind of state hospital care that offers the same for everyone. On the other hand, the huge excesses with eight, ten or sometimes more providers in a neighbourhood are reason to tackle their inefficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	I am very curious about freedom of choice, but I have a question about the role of health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	If you are curious about that, I would like to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	Yeah, but I only have two interruptions. I hope you will be able to answer that in your own contribution. My question concerns the position of health insurers. The chairman of the Labour Party was very critical of this. The health insurance companies then rightly state that they act within the law, which has been established, inter alia, by the Labour Party. When the Labour Party criticises this, I expect a proposal to restrict the power of health insurers in favour of district nurses. Are we going to see such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	It is important to recall why the Labour Party at the time chose to take care of the district nurse to the health insurance companies. This was based on a very fundamental point. The Labour Party considers that personal care should not be decentralised to municipalities along the custom-made reasoning, because in one municipality body-related care would be different from that in the other municipality. You should be able to get life-bound care anywhere at all times. That's just a legal right. That is why we considered it important that it should be included in the Health Insurance Act. In addition, the profession itself, the district nurses, and also the client organizations wanted it. We have listened to what was important to the field and we are still 100% behind it. The reason it's in the Health Insurance Act is still the same as far as we're concerned. The fact that you give carte blanche to the health insurance companies, then run it as you think it is good, we do not take it for granted at all. It is now accompanied by a lot of pressure on implementation, with a lot of administrative burden and a lot of accountability. There's no other way. We have seen this in recent years and believe that health insurers should take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	I hear the PvdA saying that she thinks that the way the health insurance companies are doing it now, with this huge implementation burden on district nurses, should be different. Is there going to be a proposal from the PvdA? So that something really is done for the neighborhood nurse who sighs under the burden, which among other things the health insurance companies impose on her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	Yes. We are still struggling with a tariff complex that comes from the AWBZ and has many variations. All these variants must be accounted for by health insurers. This leads to a hugely complex paper mass that we make no one happy with. The PvdA wants to start looking at where things are going well in practice. There are good examples of neighborhood care and fortunately by now many other organisations. If we take this as a directive and look at one or at most a few rates, not at the more than ten proposed by the NZa or are now available in practice, you have reduced accountability and registration drive to almost 15% of what it is today. That's gonna save you a lot. If you link this to the care plan that district nurses already write, by analogy with local care, then the data will be tapped from it.You have greatly reduced bureaucracy. This is the plan which we would like to see worked out and which I have summarised in the motion for a resolution for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	I am glad that Mrs Wolbert has just driven away the ghost image of uniform red sweaters from state welfare. How is freedom of choice guaranteed if it wants to achieve more uniformity and fewer providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	That is one of the most important issues. Because of the freedom of choice, the system is now as it is. I don't think I'm telling any news that nobody's waiting for eight or nine variations of red and purple sweaters. That feels very inefficient. If this can be paid, there are still a few things that can be better arranged. In practice, for example, municipalities say: if you want to participate in the tender, put that part of your organisation in a separate cooperative, so that within that cooperative the freedom of choice is guaranteed, but the huge overload is limited to the number of cars. I think that's a model of governance that I can live with. The knife then cuts on both sides: a. the number of suppliers is reduced, because it is said that this should be regulated among themselves; b. the competition between them, first at the front door, is greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	If you say that the number of providers needs to be limited, you run the risk of smaller providers, who are valued by the clients, being put into a tribulation. How does the PvdA group prevent the freedom of choice from being indirectly restricted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	Small providers, who have an offer for a specific group of people, would be able to participate in a cooperative with the agreement that if it is at issue, the healthcare provider will be given priority. I don't know what's against this. You can handle this pretty well. I am convinced that there are opportunities for improvement over this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	I hear Mrs. Wolbert, and I'd like to check something out. Does Mrs Wolbert recognise that within the health care department, which is part of the Health Insurance Act, the insurer ultimately determines who is contracted and who is not and that this can be a whole palette of businesses and healthcare providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	Yeah, sure. I wholeheartedly endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	Does Mrs Wolbert therefore recognise that very often very small businesses produce a lot of innovation? For example, the famous organisation Neighborhood care has once started very small, with a completely new model that did not exist before. Perhaps we should be more enthusiastic about small suppliers and not just get the idea that big is always very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	I don't think I often say great is good. Of course, we need to nurture innovative healthcare providers and, above all, look at where the innovations lie and how, if they contain the good elements, we could move them forward. Then we must agree on what are the good elements that such a healthcare provider offers. At Buurtzorg this was among other things the rule-free use of district nurses. That's how they grew up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	I'm listening with surprise. I hear a plea for lots and not all kinds of different nurses in the neighborhood. I think we did. It was called the AWBZ and it was called care offices. I have a question about the words of the leader of the PvdA. It says here: "They have the reflex to celebrate their total control "they" that are the health insurers "and risk management bone on the new system." For example, there is the deadline for all patients to have a re-indication on 1 May. He'll have to leave the table right away." Is there going to be such a motion which reads: Whereas health insurers have the reflex to celebrate their total control and risk management bone on the new system; whereas there is such a deadline that all patients should have a re-indication on 1 May; says that they should immediately leave the table; signed: Wolbert?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. It's almost a "oh, yeah." What I'm reading now, I didn't come up with myself. Those are the words of Mr Samsom. I am here tonight looking for what is actually going to change as quickly as possible for patients and their families and for district nurses. Here I read that the re-indications should be removed. This is an approved interview, so these are the words of Mr Samsom. Then why isn't that motion coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	That interview does not say that the re-indications should be removed, but that the deadline of 1 May is the noose. Healthcare insurers have already indicated that this deadline was not as hard as it was carried out by many organisations. That's one. I myself have spoken with a large number of organisations and they say: we are not really affected by this deadline. That has also been mentioned a number of times tonight. There are organisations that already have these re-indications behind them. This is because they have organized things well, with less administrative pressure or burdens, and because they have trained, coached and organized district nurses over the last year and a half to dictate differently and to stand in the business. Organisations that have well supported district nurses with good automation, for example, do not actually suffer from this. They're ready, as was noted tonight. Organisations that thought they couldn't do it were given an early opportunity to consult with the health insurance companies. I think that there have also been many organisations that have continued to do so over the back of the workload of the district nurses and that there are also health insurers who have not stopped it. The fact that my group chairman has acted against this is excellent, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	This leads to total arbitrariness, doesn't it? One patient or client has a re-indication and less care and the other doesn't. It can't be true that the PvdA stands for that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	That is a conclusion that I do not understand at all and cannot follow from our debate today, because all people are being re-indicated. However, the deadline of 1 May is far less harsh than Mrs Keijzer is now suggesting. As we have heard from the health insurance companies and by now also from providers, we now find our way in this too. So I don't know where that conclusion comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	In the article that Mr Samsom wrote and in many interviews that he did afterwards, he certainly deals with the rigid discount that is being applied and with which the nurses are being sent out. He talks about the risk that every hour of care is converted into 50 minutes and that therefore does not count the content but the financial risks. So I had actually expected a motion from the Labour Party, perhaps not to stop the re-indications, but at least to get the job out of the hands of the district nurses. Can we possibly count on the Labour Party to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	I still think those re-indications should be done, because those are old AWBZ indications from a time when the CIZ was still intruding. That doesn't fit in at all with this period, so it's good to have that looked at again. And let me say the following about the mission. If you work as a district nurse new style, if you take care of it, if you make sure that people are more independent, more self-sufficient and regain their own direction by, as I said earlier, delivering more care at the beginning, it turns out that in practice this leads to substantial savings. If you can work more efficiently, if you organize care better at the same time, and if the organisations that do, then get a 9.5 in customer appreciation, then you shouldn't let that go and say: you know what, we're just screwing that whole process back. With the organisations that do not do this and who scrape 15% of their indication with the cheese-shaving method, I have serious problems and fortunately my party chairman too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u78	"I see examples in which a 20% discount target is imposed by the insurer and passed on rigidly by the management to nurses. This threatens the risk that every hour of care will be converted into 50 minutes. Then we are farther away from home." These are the sensible words of Mr Samsom, who has been observed in practice. That is also from the research of the professional association. Many district nurses want to be able to indicate what people can and can do with perspective on things themselves, but dare or should not do so now, because 400 million needs to be cut. My question was not: how do you prefer it? I was able to read that in Mr Samsom's letter. No, my question was, what are you doing tonight? We do not get a motion in which you say that the deadline is going to be dropped, whereas that was a demand in Mr Samsom's letter. You just rejected that when Mrs Keijzer asked. Now I ask: are you going to table a motion to at least take the mission off the neighborhood nurses' necks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u79	The Labour Party never supports motions which are already established practice or which are already applied by practice. And that deadline of May 1st is off the table, so any motion that now asks if the deadline of May 1st is off the table is behind practice and that is special. That deadline isn't May 1st. That has now been confirmed by all the parties, so I think it is really nonsense to say that we are going to table a motion on that. That would mean that this Chamber is lagging behind what has already been agreed in practice, so we are not going to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u80	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u82	You've had two interruptions, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u83	Yes, but that demand for that deadline to be removed came from Mr Samsom. So he proposed something last week that wasn't really a demand. Let us establish that, but I asked for something else. Mr Samsom is also talking about this task on the neck of these district nurses, which means that they cannot do what they have to do and which the Labour Party and the SP think they should do. If we table a motion on this, will the Labour Party support the words of its party leader, even if it is the motion of another party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mrs Wolbert, you may respond briefly, but I suggest that you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u85	I'd like to respond briefly. I find it so difficult to say that I support when I have not seen the motions. Often there are things in motions that the Labour Party does not want to support. In addition, I will be coming up with a motion myself, which at least contains a number of proposals which, in our view, improve implementation in practice. It's been a long time, but I would've stayed with the next one. We believe that the focus should be on the quality of life. The starting point must be that the patient himself gets more direction. I mentioned the example of a man who can learn to handle the insulin pen. The new funding should be available to the Labour Party there, at that point, so that the district nurses no longer have to answer for any connection or every minute. Can the Secretary of State explain how he intends to make this battle? The Labour Party also wants a different focus for health insurers. We were just talking about that, so I'll be brief. This means that we do not want to work on the basis of the cheese-shape system and simply because of the danger that the budgetary framework will be exceeded to be held accountable, but that there will be room to work as a number of organisations have worked in recent years. This can be done by giving a lot of space to indication by the district nurse himself, and precisely by purchasing and funding the district nurses, and by giving patients space to be self-reliant. I'm repeating myself. Stepping up care in the early stages, building a good healthcare network, consisting of care providers and carers: this should facilitate healthcare insurers. As far as we are concerned, the new job description of neighbourhood nurses is also in place. The Labour Party asks the Cabinet whether it recognizes the population benefit above that. Can the Secretary of State respond to the Labour Party's wish to see only a few rates reflected in the new funding that is currently being worked on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u86	I have two more questions. One. In fact, Mrs Wolbert expects the health insurers to actually compensate for all the care indicated by the district nurses. What plans does it have for the premium that would go up if the budget is exceeded by the huge reduction that has been made? Two. Has Mrs Wolbert read the NZa report on outcome financing, population benefits and the enormous burden and effort that this entails?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u87	It is really a misconception that it would cost more money if district nurses were given the space to indicate what they think is necessary from the point of view of their craftsmanship. The practice shows the opposite. The organisations that do so, and which have given the district nurses that space for years, work almost half cheaper than traditional organisations. In fact, the organizations I have also done my round of calls which already work with one rate and with room for the district nurse, have the quarterly figures in place and they appear to be well below this year's target, precisely because they give the district nurses that space. There is therefore no question of exceeding budgets. These organisations work more efficiently than any other old-fashioned organization. So I would say: let us above all ensure that innovation and innovation continue instead of resorting to old-fashioned ideas such as the AWBZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mrs Wolbert talks about'some organisations'. Indeed, neighborhood care is "a number of organizations." Mr President, I am very sorry that Mrs Wolbert looks away every time I talk to her. That really bothers me. She just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u89	I'll keep my eyes on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u90	That's kind of polite. That's just decency. If we roll out neighborhood care nationwide, that could bring in 0.8 to 1.2 billion. We agree on that. The problem is that a lot of organisations do not work according to the Neighborhood Care Model, which has been fired by the cuts in half of the Visible Switch neighbourhood nurses and every home care organisation is reinventing the wheel. So there's going to be overruns. What solution does the Labour Party propose if that happens? I had also asked a second question about the NZa's document on, among other things, population benefit and outcome financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u91	Once again, I strongly dispute that it would be more expensive if you gave the district nurse the room. Nothing could be further from the truth. This cabinet says: Neighborhood care could do it in previous cabinet periods by half less for the indication according to investigations it was even up to 60% less............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I just don't understand why Mrs. Gerbrands keeps making these neighborhood nurses suspicious by saying that there are budget overruns when you give them room. I am quite sure that I am going to distance myself from that. The more space the district nurse gets to practice her profession, the more efficient it becomes and the less chance we have of budget overruns. My plea has already been made three times today: let us now move away from all these different rates and move towards simplification towards one to a single rate. We already have the Neighborhood Care Model. If we also give this task to the Secretary of State, then we will be very close to Mrs Gerbrands' ideal situation, which is also mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u92	I was addressed. Mrs. Wolbert said I'm telling you something weird. It is not the neighborhood nurse who increases the cost by giving more care. It is the health insurers who make demands that cannot be met. So there is no room for working according to that model in a lot of places, and so there will be no savings. That is also because we have the 14 products that the Labour Party has agreed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u93	Again, I have said it a number of times this evening: all these products are the old AWBZ-funded products and we want to get rid of them as soon as possible. This is a transitional year, in which we still register according to the old AWBZ funding. The Labour Party would rather get rid of that yesterday than today. I think my point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday we were pleasantly surprised. One of the two coalition parties suddenly realized that everyday practice is somewhat different from the health care halla that the Ministry of Health outlined in its TV commercials. The Labour Party is crying out for help: the control drive of the health insurance companies paralyzes the whole of care and the perverse market forces must be limited. Whether the Secretary of State would like to call the health insurers to order, that's what the request sounded like. The debate on the role of health insurers has, of course, been going on for a long time. It is nice that this discussion has now been pushed through with the Labour Party, but it also raises a number of questions. Because isn't the present reality the only logical effect of government policy? And if so, does the desire to change something about current reality mean the desire to change something about cabinet policy? If that is not the case, the Labour Party is again working on a piece of non-binding profiling, as we have seen more recently: murder and fire screaming in the media and not giving it at home when it comes to voting in this house. If this is also the case in the area of nursing, I regret that. These are people who no longer get the care they need, because the bureaucracy resulting from PvdA plans and cuts has come to an end. To perform a political play over the backs of these people and to leave everything as it is, I would find very sad. But we also know that the Labour Party bites through every now and then. We recently saw this with the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman/Kuiks on a more humane asylum policy. As far as I'm concerned, that tastes like more. I therefore hope that we will be able to forge a majority here tonight with the Labour Party in order to finally tackle the power of the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u95	Then, of course, I would like to know from Mrs Voortman whether, if I have a motion that says that we want to move on to one or a few rates instead of the whole batter we have now, she is going to support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u96	I think I can support that motion. Maybe I can ask another question. Will the Labour Party support my motion, which states that quality standards must be drawn up by carers, and that insurers must respect them and not ask their own questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u97	That sounds...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u98	It's not common, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u99	I'd look forward to such a motion with interest. It's like a one-two, but it's not, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to see that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u100	Good. There is also a second deadline for tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u101	I think it might work out with that collaboration. To quote Mr Samsom: the fundamental threat to the new care is the management and bureaucracy of health insurers; they have the reflex to celebrate their total control and risk management on the new system. That's a hell of a observation, but how are you gonna fix it? Asking the Secretary of State again to call the insurers on the mat is nice, but ignores the underlying problem. After all, the health insurance companies are not doing anything that the law now forbids. So if you want to change the health care provider's behavior, you have to start with yourself, namely the legislator. Everyone wants quality and efficiency in care; the patient, the neighborhood nurse and also the health insurance company. However, health insurers are not yet able to buy in on quality, because the information is not yet available. In practice, therefore, they only buy in at the lowest price. That leads to the race to the bottom that we now see everywhere in the care. In the meantime, all health insurers are individually concerned with quality questions in their own way. In order to gain insight into the quality of the care they have purchased, they have district nurses provide the craziest data. The neighborhood nurse gets killed in bureaucracy. This has to stop. Health insurers should apply uniform quality standards in line with the GroenLinks initiative paper. These standards must be developed by health insurers and patients, because they are the real experts. This is the only way health insurance companies can stop interpreting quality information themselves and make it clear to the insured and patients what the quality of their care is. The current hunger for data from health insurance companies is the logical consequence of the current system, as conceived by this cabinet. The only way to return the district nurse to her profession is by taking responsibility for determining what quality is, removing it from the health insurance companies and giving it to those who are actually dealing with care on a daily basis. Only in this way can we stop the endless demand for far too much data. Does the Secretary of State agree with this analysis? Is he prepared to take the lead in developing these quality standards? The Secretary of State writes in his letter that parties have a joint responsibility for reducing bureaucracy. The government as a legislator is of course a very important party in this. I would therefore like to ask how the Secretary of State sees his own responsibility in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement major changes in care have been agreed by the Labour Party. Surely the Secretary of State, like me, heard with amazement how the leader of his own party openly confessed that it didn't work out as well as hoped? Is that right? There are no fewer rules, but more. There is not less administration, but more. That is sad, but it is nice that Mr Samsom has now experienced this in person and that he recognizes it in equestrian terms. Mr Samsom has made it quite clear that the policy of the district nurse, one of the key figures in the new healthcare system, has changed 180 degrees and is therefore different from what was planned. Insurers cut the budget by 10% and waiting list for community care risks. This creates a direct danger to the quality and continuity of care. The same insurers, in turn, indicated that they were merely carrying out public policy. We therefore believe that the leader of the Labour Party can finally be counted on our side. What does this mean for the coalition agreement, which was also drawn up by Mr Samsom? It is carried out by his Secretary of State and now criticized by that same Mr Samsom. Circle's round; we're here. It does not work as intended, also my colleague from the Labour Party now knows. Insurers must be brought to order. I quote the leader of the Labour Party: the fundamental threat to the new concern is the managementism and bureaucracy of healthcare institutions, but especially of insurers. Those are big but also true words. Finally, it says in black and white that the new system is not working properly. Following that observation from his own party, does the Secretary of State finally have a better solution than the solutions he has so far provided? What does this mean for the care? The Secretary of State states in his letter on community nursing: "The scope given to the professional is a very important prerequisite for the reform of care." But so far, there hasn't been much of that space. As even the party of the responsible State Secretary sounds the alarm, 50PLUS expects action to be taken at last. Now it can no longer be said that it will be okay, that we must be patient and that the Secretary of State really said that the transition has been "controlled." There are not only cases that go wrong in the district nursing service. Also in municipalities everything goes wrong and that is evident over and over again. Older people have to file a lawsuit in order to partially retain their domestic help. The differences in facilities between municipalities are sometimes unacceptable. A lot of care workers lose their jobs. Call that "controlled." Could we hear from the Secretary of State a definition of what he means by the term "controlled"? The healthcare reforms are moving way too fast now. And there is another question in this connection. Is 1 May the deadline, as Mr Samsom claimed, or is there no deadline, as Mr Wolbert said this evening? I would like a clear answer from the Secretary of State. Three quarters of the general practitioners and half of the district nurses consider that there is not enough professional care and care available. They're the people on which the new system floats. They should know. This is the time to intervene and save care for the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. Party of Labour and VVD: grab your chance, tonight. Rule agreement or not: take your responsibility and take the necessary measures. Or do you, like Mr Samsom, also need internships to come to your senses? I have another proposal for you, Madam President. Perhaps it would be wise for the Labour Party to speak a little earlier in the second term. Then we can see what words they want to translate into action and the rest of the Chamber can respond to that. I would like to conclude with a great compliment to all the employees in the care, who, despite all the frustrations, continue to do the work for their clients with great commitment and love.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u103	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is itself responsible for your proposal, not the President of the European Parliament. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u104	Rutte and the VVD seem to belong together by default. That does not have to be done, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. The return of the district nurse in the neighbourhood, with independent funding, was explicitly stated in the election programme of the VVD. It's also in the coalition agreement. That makes sense, since this is a shared wish of the Labour Party and the VVD. The Secretary of State is responsible for this important reform. We wholeheartedly support him in his direction. This is a course in which all claims to health care are covered by the Health Insurance Act, so that there is no cut between nursing and care. A course in which the concerned and professional district nurse himself indicates which care is needed, rather than an indicative body at a distance. It is a course that we are heading towards ensuring that the health care department is as comprehensive as possible, but we will continue to keep an eye on the budgetary consequences. After all, because of the affordability of care, we cannot afford budget overruns now and in the future. The VVD believes that the Secretary of State is good at shaping this reform and, where necessary, correcting it in good time. The latter is important because it is really a big change, not only in the way of working but also in the way of financing. The current financing model is an intermediate solution. As Mr Van der Staaij has literally said, it is work in progress. We knew that before. It is a first, firm step forward, but it is not yet optimal. A few weeks ago, the Dutch Healthcare Authority presented a proposal on how the funding should look towards the future. There was little enthusiasm for this proposal. The Secretary of State now writes that he does not follow this advice and wants to follow another path, which should lead to an appropriate way of financing in 2017. The VVD supports the Secretary of State in that choice, but still has a few questions. How does the State Secretary ensure that the population-related funding to be implemented in 2017 is based on health characteristics and not on socio-economic characteristics? After all, people are simply entitled to care, regardless of how high or how low their income is. How do we ensure that the new funding model stimulates healthcare providers and caregivers to keep patients and clients as long as possible and that there is no unwanted shift to the Wlz? Or reworded: how do we avoid cherrypicking, so it pays for a healthcare provider to focus only on the simple cases? And how do we keep the administrative burden as low as possible but keep an eye on legality and the prevention of fraud? These are important questions for the VVD. However, we believe that the Secretary of State has so far done a very good job in this reform. But those who really deserve a plume are the professionals who shape this change day in, day out in practice. They do the real work and deserve all the praise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mrs Dijkstra, I see you're trying to interrupt, but you're through your interruptions. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u106	That is very difficult in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u107	That's what we agreed on. But come on, you can ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u108	That can also be very short. Mr Rutte was quite critical of Mr Samsom's statements and opinion document. Is he reassured tonight by his PvdA colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u109	At first, my reaction was that, like Mr Samsom, I think it is important that professional care should be provided by professionals, but that we should pay close attention to the budgetary consequences. I'm not worried after the answers I've heard since then. I am not concerned about what I have heard from the Labour Party and I look forward to the answers from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u110	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State can answer directly. I see there's a bit of grumbling in the Chamber. Let's have a short suspension. I see the Secretary of State is ready to answer, but I'm suspending for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mr. Chairman. In this debate which has arisen as a result of Mr Samsom's statements, I hear three topics that are constantly being discussed. Why have we started these reforms with each other and what are they for? Why are the choices for community care made as they were made? Where are we and what else is to be done? By way of general introduction, I think it would be good to take a walk past these three subjects. Why have we started these reforms? Why are these changes in care needed? You always come up with a number of elements that come back every time, including in this debate. We are dealing with more elderly people with a different question of care and with other wishes, which mean that we really need to think about how to organise long-term care in the Netherlands differently. We need to take more account of the fact that people want to stay home longer. We need to take more account of personal circumstances. We have to take into account the fact that older people have a greater demand for care. That raises questions about the quality of nursing homes. So: take care of customized support at home, arrange nearby and ensure that the municipality gets an important position in it. People need to be looked more closely in the eye. We need people to be able to talk to. We need to look at how we can arrange support at home in a better, tailor-made way. It is also about the neighborhood nursing care, which is indeed coming back, perhaps you should say. Also today I hear that a lot of parties say: we always thought that this neighborhood nurse should come back. I can only embrace that. I am pleased that there are now proposals to give this district nurse new impetus, to improve its quality and to put the professional more in sight. With this neighborhood nurse care we organize that care close to home again better. In addition, we have discussed the quality of nursing home care, which we will come back to. There are two more elements that we must bear in mind. Yeah, it's also about affordability. We have to make difficult choices, not because it is so much fun to cut back, but because I want care to be available to people with small wallets who cannot pay for it themselves, in order to ensure the affordability of care in the future, when we are faced with a great demand for care. These people must also be able to count on accessible and available care now and later. When it comes to long-term care and issues such as loneliness, we also need to think about how we want to organise our society. Maybe we should get more care and more eye for each other. Together we note that loneliness is one of the major problems of our time. Then we need to think about whether we can, want or need to resolve all this by giving a care indication or giving good care, but also thinking about introducing community care, about caring close to each other, about caring and eye for each other. They are not beautiful stories, but they are necessary stories that lead us to be proud of the long-term care we now know and to remain proud of long-term care. That is why these changes are needed. We have made neighborhood nurse care one of the key points in this reform for a reason. We have done so because it is incredibly necessary to ensure that there is proper coordination in the first line. The general practitioner care and the district nurse care should work together to ensure that medical care can be given close by, based on the expertise of the professionals. We also had the discussion on how to make a good connection between this good new first line and the social domain. It is only right, as I see from the outset, that we are still all in favour of these choices and that we are organizing care in a different way. What are the starting points for the neighborhood nurse care? First of all, we put the district nurse back in the lead. We are moving away from the central indications. The professional must be able to give the indications himself. We must strive very hard for less burdens and less regulatory pressure. When I talk to district nurses, I slowly see the lights coming back into my eyes. Of course, there is still a sigh about the registration burden and the question of how to limit it. Of course, there is still a discussion on how to organise care in the neighbourhood. Of course, there is still a discussion about how we are going to manage the coordination with the municipalities properly. We note with each other that it would be good to give a new impetus to the care of the neighbourhood, but at the same time I note that we are actually regulating this for the first time in years. Let me get the cow right away: I was actually happy with what Mr Samsom said. It is not a question of making other choices with regard to the district nurse's care and its positioning. We should not dwell on the question of how it is regulated in the law. I shall come back to that later. The point is that, if we continue to organise care, for example in terms of the design of funding, we must be incredibly careful when it comes to implementing it: what rates should we charge, what requirements do we make, how should we deal with the administrative burden? Some organisations had arranged the re-indications well before 1 May and were perhaps already done with them. For other organisations, the date of 1 May was very tight. That was a signal: is it wise to have everything ready on 1 May or is it good to give some space and air in it? I am therefore pleased that the health insurance companies indicated in a letter that they are seeing this too. Maybe that was part of the answer to that story, or maybe something was already going on. They are very willing to talk to providers about the 1 May. They also indicated that this could be adapted in good consultation. This just seems good to me. It doesn't lead to any difference in indications - everyone has to be re-indicated - but it's very good that there's space and it can be done better. We decided at the time that we are going to shape the care of the neighbourhood differently, but that we cannot go all the way at once, because we also have to look at the continuity of care, as Mrs Wolbert said. Indeed, the district nurse care is now being designed, while at the same time we are dealing with the funding from the AWBZ. This means that there are a lot of health profiles, which are subject to a lot of demands and a lot of rates. The discussion with all parties, with Nurses & Verzorgende Nederland, with the client and patient organisations and with healthcare providers and health insurance providers is about how we can ensure that we can incorporate the ideals we have set out into the new funding model, the introduction of which takes time and is complicated. These are ideals such as: more space for the professional, less administrative burden, less products and less rates. There was an initial proposal from the Dutch Healthcare Authority, which, as it were, was driven from the existing model: how can we change that? All the parties said that this is a good building block in itself, but should we not think more fundamentally about how to design new styles of funding? Can we not only reason from the existing to the new, but perhaps we also dare to think for a moment about how we really would like to have it? That is why I welcomed Mr Samsom's observation. In fact, he called for: let's do it now. Let us not just reason from the existing to the new. If we want to give the professional space, if we want to have less administrative burdens, we must also be prepared to think fundamentally about the funding, and we must dare to make sharp choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u112	I don't get any light from this, because I haven't actually heard anything that I think is something new. In fact, last year we had found the panacea by the system of Segment 1 and Segment 2, where one district nurse takes care of and the other district nurse decides what one district nurse should do. Actually, that's the cut. In fact, there is no way to work in this way, but this is how it is bought in and bureaucracy has to be delivered. Now there will be another whole new circus; I hope that will lead to something. But now to Samsom's plea, because he also said he saw the discount target. That discount target is imposed by the insurer and by the management rigidly translated into the direction of nurses. This means continuing to focus on financial risks rather than on the best care. That's what the neighborhood nurse's trapped in. Is the Secretary of State really going to free the district nurse?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u113	I notice that in practice you come to different choices. Where the neighborhood nurse gets the space to come up with indications and indicate himself, and in consultation with the people involved you can see what is needed, you come to different choices than when you prescribe in all boxes exactly what needs to be done. That wouldn't have happened from today to tomorrow. However, I note that in the organisations that do so, neighbourhood care and neighbourhood care organisations have already been mentioned, both district nurses and those involved come to different choices, which can indeed improve the quality of the neighbourhood care and further strengthen the freedom for the professional. Moreover, it is very often even more efficient and cheaper. So that means that in the new direction, so to speak, we have to give the professional the courage to make room. For that, a lot of water will have to flow through the Rhine, but if we are willing to create that space with each other, for example in the funding, I am convinced that we will eventually come to choices and decisions that will enable both quality and cheaper care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u114	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u115	We've already been promised this. We had already been promised that the district nurse should look into what is needed. The neighborhood nurse did indeed have 1 May as a deadline, but because of Samsom's request it is now off the table. The idea was that if the neighborhood nurse looked that way, this would always lead to less concern and so we could cut 400 million. We exchanged this widely in the debate we held here in the autumn. "Can district nurses decide for themselves?" "Yes, I stand for that," said the Secretary of State. But his own party leader notes that district nurses have targets on their necks, that they have to say: an hour is 50 minutes. That is the opposite of what the Secretary of State says here and in the autumn. The practice is different from the wish. Is the Secretary of State gonna get those targets out of the neighborhood nurse's neck today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u116	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u117	So no more indicting with a austerity target in your pocket. Just... I don't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u118	It's not about whether there's a target or not. We have already disagreed and may not agree today on the need for austerity. I believe that there is a need to ensure that we have affordable and accessible care for everyone in the future. To this end, we must now make a number of choices. I note that practice shows that if you organise the district nurse care in a different way and give the district nurse more room, that leads to choices that both strengthen quality and are cheaper. We see the examples of this every day. Mr Samsom has rightly called, in my opinion, for the method and practice to be made. It didn't work out and it couldn't be done by saying it to each other. This is not only achieved by making laws in which it is written, although these laws have succeeded well. The main question is how things are going in practice. Such a new funding model is part of that. That is exactly why I said: let's think twice before following the proposal of the Dutch Healthcare Authority in which you come from old to new. That is an important building block, by the way. But if you want to think more fundamentally about implementing the new method, perhaps you should also dare to think in principle about the new funding. Then you must think about how many demands we are actually making. Then you do not have to put any population elements in there, to make sure that does not lead to production hunting, or to an hour-invoice or to a huge registration burden. Then you have to make sure that the funding model supports what you want. I very much support that call. In fact, I spend every day working on parties to make sure we get that funding model.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u119	The Secretary of State says he is pleased with the comments made by Mr Samsom, the group chairman of the Labour Party. What does he think of the role of the health insurance provider? It is highly criticised, while the PvdA itself is responsible for having been given that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u120	In preparation for this debate, I have read very carefully the letter sent to the Chamber by healthcare insurers in the Netherlands very recently, I believe even today. In this, health insurers also say that they want to bring district nurses more into the lead, to reduce the administrative burden and to withdraw from the product categories in the AWBZ. Those possibilities are there. The Health Insurance Act claims that district health care is the care provided by district health care professionals. We have chosen to do so. So it is already possible in the Health Insurance Act to put district nurses "in the lead." Now, of course, we also have to make a number of choices for the new funding. When I talk to health insurers, I see that they understand that and that they partly say to themselves that they should think along with it. In the letter from ZN you can read that they want to. So we have to make a radical change in our thinking to put that care professional more in the lead. We have to do this with each other, so we with our regulations, the healthcare providers with their only focus on production and the health insurance companies with their requirements for registration. That is very difficult because we have laws and regulations that have been drawn up in the past. We do now have a chance to redesign that neighborhood nurse care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u121	I hear that the Secretary of State actually understands that health insurers should grow in their new role and that all this should be done in conjunction with the field. Mr Samsom made a completely different sound. He made a hell of a critique. If you listened carefully to that, you'd hear him say the health insurance companies had to go back into their loft. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u122	Since we cannot go down that road because of the rules of the health insurance companies, we have to sit down with them to avoid just looking at the turnover of the year before and the way in which it should be done the following year. We also need to have care providers around the table to see what they are actually demanding. I would point out that many hours and minutes registrations are not so much a result of regulation, but rather of the management of healthcare providers. That is all understandable, but we will have to ask both healthcare providers and health insurers as well as ourselves. We are asked to make room in legislation and regulations. That's a pretty tough operation. It takes time, but it is very important that we take that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u124	That is the way we want to go from the current funding to the new funding. The new one supports what we want with the neighborhood nurse care. That is extremely important, but not realised from today to tomorrow. It just takes time. At the time, we also said to each other that we had to make the funding very much in addition to what we wanted to do. That is what we are now in the middle of. You've received the NZa's report. We have said that we saw it differently. Now you have received an investigation into a different design. I would like to examine very carefully with the parties whether the funding system we have designed supports principles such as professional space, no unnecessary administrative burden and consultation between the professional and the person concerned at home to ensure good care. I am hopeful, because if you read through the eye hairs the letters we received from ActiZ, ZN and Nursing & Nursing Netherlands, you will see that all these parties are about the same. Of course, it's still looking for the right design. It will also be a discussion on the speed with which this can be done. I am impatient, because I want to take some substantial steps in 2016. At the same time, I understand that those who want to do so do believe that it should be done carefully and that pilots should perhaps be carried out to that end. That's all I want to discuss. However, I am also impatient, because I want us to be able to take a number of substantial steps as soon as possible. The third element in today's discussion was how the process works. Mr Van der Staaij has also pointed this out. I agree very well with his call for a firm implementation, but keep an eye on it. I very much endorse that call. Of course, it is not just a question of whether we have put the law properly on paper. In the end, it's about how you get from paper to practice. That means you have to have an open eye for the way it goes. We must now say to the municipalities, for example, that a partnership before 1 January also means a partnership after 1 January. We need to get a little away from control and control, which may have gone too far in the care sector. We will encounter all kinds of bottlenecks, problems and issues that we need to resolve together. I've got a whole list. Now that all the laws are ready on paper and we have to go to practice, I have a whole list of points regarding the Social Support Act, the Youth Act, the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act. We must shape the innovation. We need to listen to people better. We need to make sure that the kitchen tables run better. We should not judge where that is at stake. We must maintain good contact with the schools when it comes to youth care. We should not be under-hand or over-treating. We want to make it possible to live longer at home, so we need to look not only at the institution, but also at the home situation with general practitioners and specialists in the care of the elderly. There are many opportunities and opportunities, but also bottlenecks that we all need to resolve. We're in the middle of an operation to change care. It aims to ensure that we have affordable and accessible care for everyone in the future. We have a number of choices to make, but we still have many problems to solve in practice. We've been three months. We are about to discuss the first progress report and we will talk about it very often. Every day we have to take advantage of the practice to achieve the objective of the reforms. I am very motivated to do so. In the field, I see that this is done by insurers, client organisations and healthcare providers. I see a great willingness to cooperate in this area. I shall now turn to a number of specific questions. Mrs Dijkstra asked about the placing. That is a big issue. Recently I spoke to health insurers and municipalities. In a conversation like this, you notice that there has to be a balance. On the one hand, there must be sufficient freedom of choice for everyone, with room for new entrants and renewal of the provision of care, but on the other hand, you must organise it a bit efficiently. I spoke to a health insurance company who said: we are now thinking with a number of municipalities about the way in which we organise, for example, the neighbourhood nurse care and came into a neighbourhood where there were 48 different healthcare providers. Then you may want to organise care more efficiently, but you will also have to discuss with each other whether you want to do so to this extent. So I am also looking for a way to maintain that freedom of choice in the funding, but at the same time, in consultation with the municipalities, I would like to make sure that you can continue to see the forest in the organisation of the supply of care through the trees. It will be a bit of a search for exactly how that works, but I note that municipalities and health insurance companies are looking together in a lot of regions to find out exactly how to do that. How can you maintain the freedom of choice and at the same time provide some organisational capacity?You can call that landing in order to organise the care efficiently? We do not want postal code care, but we want a new balance sheet. Not all thousand flowers will continue to bloom, but bouquets must be able to emerge and care must also be able to be organized properly. Besides, this is nothing new. We also have this discussion in curative care, in which we want to retain freedom of choice, but sometimes for reasons of quality we want to concentrate on improving the quality of care. This is not a new discussion. This discussion will therefore also take place in the care. Am I prepared to table with the health insurance companies about administrative burdens? Definitely! As far as I am concerned, that is the debate for the coming period. How can we, not just with health insurers, but with everyone, ensure that administrative burdens, supervisory burdens and registration burdens are reduced? Any euro that is spent unnecessarily there can go to care. That is what we all want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u125	I would like to return to my previous question on postal code policy. The Secretary of State says there will be no such thing. I'd like him to make that very hard, otherwise I'll have a motion on it. He says that now we are looking at how to ensure that health insurers buy on quality, as in curative care. There is no such thing for the time being. What timetable does the Secretary of State see for himself? How are we supposed to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u126	I note that it is perhaps also an answer to another question... that health insurers can buy good care if the quality is based on the interplay of professionals and clients and that not every health insurance provider has to invent his own quality. We all know that's a huge struggle. The quality transparency we strive so hard to achieve will have to be fought meter by meter. As far as neighborhood care is concerned, I have good hope of that because there are very good models of V&VN. The district nurses already have a lot of experience with how it works in practice. If we give those district nurses more space and make sure that they are in the lead to achieve those quality criteria on which you can base your purchasing policy, you can take a lot of fast steps. I'm afraid to rule on how fast that goes. We have now agreed that we are doing this very well together with V&VN. I think it's getting better and better as time goes on. I hope that we will be able to take some substantial steps in 2016, at least in terms of the registration burden that is sometimes needed to collect all kinds of things because you do not know the quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u127	How does the Secretary of State look at the amount of providers? He says you sometimes see 48 different providers in one neighborhood. How many healthcare providers does he propose to choose from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u128	I don't know. If we want to organise a good first line, we need to make a very nice connection between, for example, the funding of general care and the financing of community care. We do the same to the general practitioners. It works differently with the general practitioners. People are registered there, but you can think of what is needed in a population for general care. At some point, we sometimes have the subscription rate. I'm going to go into the technique now, a little bit differentiated, depending on the neighborhood or the neighborhood. I do not know how quickly we will succeed in the care of the district nurse. I note, however, that we have two things to unite. There must be sufficient freedom of choice and space for people to make their own choices, for example with regard to family or religion, or with regard to the choice of district nurse care, sometimes even with pgbs. If you want to organise good chain care and if you want good agreements to be made about dementia or good agreements between general practitioners, district nurses and the municipality, you should at least organise that there is some coordination. You also have to agree: who does and who doesn't. That's what health insurers can do now. They may have preferred purchasing policies. In the Health Insurance Act, on the one hand, there is the procurement policy of the health insurance companies and, on the other hand, there is the freedom to opt for a refund if it becomes someone else. We have had other debates on this subject. So that search will remain. I wouldn't want to think of that either: twenty is beautiful and five is even more beautiful. No, that depends on the neighborhood and the neighborhood. It depends on the population. It depends on the question. It depends on people's freedom of choice. This will require health insurers, municipalities and community nurses to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u129	The Secretary of State spoke about finding the balance between efficiency and freedom of choice. In this context, I would also like to hear more about room for innovation, small suppliers and identity-related providers. Does he recognize the image that it sometimes comes very close in community care, care in people's homes, and that it is important that you can find that care on your own?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u130	Very. If we manage to make a good connection between the professional who has to provide care for the district nurse and the wishes of clients, how would they prefer to have care for that district nurse, from whom and how organized? In this case, it will be obvious that there are dominant wishes in some areas, for example about religion or attitudes or other demands made by clients, which affect the insurer's purchasing policy. If this dialogue between municipalities, insurers and providers is going well, the term "population benefit" can be highlighted here, as it were, which is the best organisation of community-based care. I believe that this will be different in different places in the Netherlands, depending on the wishes expressed, especially by the clients themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u131	That's clear language. However, there must also be room if there is a minority in that area. You can get a process of scaling up and say that this is what is most desired in this neighborhood, but then the individual choices may as well snow again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u132	Sure. Close care is also the possibility of more customization. The aim is, in conversation with the clients, to achieve an optimal organisation of care. This is not always the wish of the large majority. It can also facilitate legitimate wishes of people who are a minority in them. The WMO and the Health Insurance Act also state that we must take this into account. We have also adopted amendments to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u133	I have a question about quality-based procurement. We have already noted that this is still a matter of further development, because there is actually no general understanding of what criteria we want to establish for this. Can the Secretary of State say anything more about that? Does he think we should move to a quality system? Should this be large or small and who should be involved? I wonder what the Secretary of State has in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u134	The tricky thing about quality discussions is that, if it isn't clearly established, everyone's gonna come up with their own quality system. Next thing you know, you'll have a huge bureaucracy. In the neighborhood nurse care, I think we really have a chance to get more to the outcome side. If we have a funding system, it is about the goal that we want to achieve, not to look at what kind of box it is in. I'm optimistic when I see what an organization like V&VN is doing. We are slowly but surely able, based on the experience of the district nurse himself, to define which care profile categories are available and what quality we expect. I want to define it in terms of outcome, which seems to me to be the best thing, and prevent all kinds of quality systems from competing with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u135	I am pleased to hear from the Secretary of State that he at least wants to distance himself from the old system with all these different quality systems, which have really led to huge red tape. I am glad that he says that there must of course be standardisation, otherwise we will be stuck in all these different criteria. The Secretary of State says he wants to put the professionals in the lead. Can he say anything about the role of clients? Client experiences and what clients say about increased health or well-being should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u136	I thought I said before: of course. When we talk about quality, we talk about some aspects of quality. Sometimes this is the quality of the organization of the care, sometimes that is the quality through the eyes of the professional and sometimes, especially, that is the quality through the eyes of the client. It means that these different quality concepts, client, professional and organization, are brought together. This should lead to quality assurance that enables health insurers to buy and which I know is transparent and there is a great willingness on the part of health insurers to take this as a starting point for procurement policy. The voice of the client is also essential in the district nurse care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u137	I shall come back to the interrupting debates that took place before the interrupting debate with Mrs Wolbert. It was about diversity of providers and how we do it. I understand very well that the Secretary of State says that neighborhood care is care that you offer in collaboration with general practitioners, municipalities and social teams. At the same time, people with health insurance are entitled to care. They have a right to care if it meets the standard of what we district nurse think care is. If the Secretary of State now thinks that we should take a critical look at the number of providers, does he agree with me that this road ultimately runs along finding the right quality standard, as we do in curative care? Does he agree with me that we should say to each other: neighborhood care is care that meets a standard of cooperation, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u138	Yes, very. The best way to ensure that you buy care that appeals to people and that meets their requirements is to listen to those wishes and make sure that quality assurance is there. Then you base the care purchase on quality. People will see that for themselves and then go for those choices on their own. The problem we often have now is that there is a very varied offer and that people often have little insight into how to do it. Then all kinds of choices are made in a situation where you sometimes don't see the forest through the trees. If the quality is well secured, this could lead to the purchase policy of the insurers and, above all, I suppose, to the clients. After all, they know that if they make that choice, they opt for very good quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u139	I'm not asking for nothing. Mr Samsom talked about cowboys in care when he was talking about small suppliers, while small suppliers may offer very good quality care and very large providers may not at all meet the quality we want. What is the Secretary of State going to do to ensure that we get truly recognised good quality standards, so that also health insurers in their purchases and clients in their choice can really separate the chaff from the chaff from the chaff; not on size, but on quality of the organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u140	By sitting down with the client organisations, with the district nurses and with the buyers to see if we can define quality standards with each other, which can then lead the choice that people can make, because they know what quality there is, and leading the care purchase by insurers. If we succeed in this, we will also be done with the complicated discussion about quality standards, the way in which you have to buy products or the way in which clients should actually choose. That will also, to my taste, lead you to an organisation of care in which you can make very good choices based on quality. This can perhaps be done by saying that you should not buy in from everyone, but that you should buy in where there is good cooperation, where there are good connections with the municipality, where general practitioners, district nurses, municipalities and social district teams work together in a very good way and where clients say "that's how it should be."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u141	Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mrs Leijten said, 'I thought I had already answered the question 'that Mr Samsom was critical, but that he said yes to the financial system as we chose it. Yeah, that's right. We have deliberately chosen to position the district nurse care in the Health Insurance Act, to shape that connection with the medical domain and the general practitioner on the one hand, and on the other hand to ensure that there is a good connection with the social domain. Where, in my opinion, he really has a point, which I actually hear her say too, is that in the coming period, it is very much a matter of making the cost of the district nurse's care so that, in return, the district nurse has sufficient space, there is little administrative burden and there is no unnecessary registration burden that the district nurse has more to deal with than care is provided. That will probably be a fight and there will be a lot of discussion about it, but it is very good that this discussion is going to take place. Mr Van der Staaij made a few comments on the Council of State. He said that he said that it should be continued consistently, for example when it comes to attention to family care. He also asked what should be the role of the government in that observation. I think I can see with him that it is important that we discuss this exciting role, the development of health care renewal, on a regular basis. For my part, I do so with, for example, the municipalities and also with the healthcare providers and the health insurance companies. I would like to point out that we have agreed that we are creating a renewal agenda to see which care renewal should be on the agenda for the coming period: the agenda of insurers, the municipal agenda, the agenda of healthcare providers and, therefore, our agenda. We need to see if we can shape these innovations. I am already in the process, both in the youth field and in the field of long-term care, of shaping this renewal agenda. I think I have already talked about ensuring freedom of choice and identity. Mr Van der Staaij asked the question: will it not be that we all get red sweaters? That's a beautiful color, by the way. We must also be careful, however, that not everyone is in a rainbow sweater, in which we could become world champions, but in the long run we do not see exactly what the quality of care looks like. Mr Van der Staaij asked when there would be more clarity about the protection of living. That will be on the occasion of the May Circular. We are now very busy with the distribution model. We have asked for advice from the Council of Advisors for Municipal Finances and the VNG, in particular on where to move very quickly to the new model and where to maintain the historical model. In particular, we are in very close consultation with the UNG and the aldermen concerned to see if we can manage this in the coming period. I would like to point out that, on the occasion of the progress report, we may also be able to discuss the state of play of long-term care. I assume that the Chamber would also like to look at the development of the distribution model and perhaps say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u143	I, too, made a point of living protected. I read in the Secretary of State's letter that he's still investigating. Is that investigation completed in the very short term? I've met a number of people who now live protected. They're vulnerable people who can't stand uncertainty. They are extremely afraid that because of financing problems next year they will no longer be able to live in their familiar surroundings. So I would like to stress that we need to be clear very quickly, and that we cannot investigate things again for weeks and months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u144	I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. That is exactly why I have said that there are no cuts in housing protection, but we have a discussion about whether the money is well distributed and, if it is not well distributed, how we do it. Are we going to do so immediately or are we going to look at the distribution of next year? I asked the VNG to look together with the central municipalities to see what was contracted, so that we could understand exactly what was agreed, see the overall picture and see if it could be distributed differently. I also agreed with the VNG to do so in the very short term, because I would like to clarify as much as possible on the occasion of the May Circular, not only on the question of distribution, but also on whether this is a one-off redistribution problem or a structural issue. We should then tackle this in the May Circular. The Chamber could have a "say" about that. So I do want to get those data out as soon as possible. It is very good to see what has actually been contracted in these municipalities. Then we all have a very good picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u145	In his letters, the Secretary of State talks about allocating the budget. It really seems to be a problem of division. Now the list of municipalities that have financial problems gets longer and longer in my mailbox. I have called on all aldermen to report when there are financial problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u146	I understand why it's getting longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u147	The point I want to make is that a distribution issue suggests that one receives something and that the other has to give something, but the one who has to give has just contracted care. This means that there is a deficit on the total budget. I don't think it's possible to divide up the year running at all. We will have to solve this problem with each other. Where are the municipalities that are now failing to get the money from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u148	That is exactly why I want to have an insight into what the municipalities have contracted. Then we can look at: what is contracted, what is the question of distribution, is there a question of distribution or is there another kind of issue? In this way we can also look at what has been contracted and what can still be done with it. We really need that insight in order to find good solutions, but I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that we should not wait too long. That is what we need for the meicircular as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u149	It is good that the Secretary of State states that it is important that this should be clarified quickly, because it has been dragging on for too long. Do I hear him say that this needs to be clarified before the general discussion on 30 April, so that we can discuss it further in that debate? Otherwise, I am concerned that we will say: it is all settled in the meicircular. You'll create confusion again when you get back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u150	I will look into it very carefully, but I assume that we will have the opportunity to discuss it in the long-term care, which we have already planned. Mrs Faber and Mrs Dijkstra asked questions about the S1 and S2. The Chamber was wondering whether that was right and whether we should not get rid of it. I would also like to answer these questions in a slightly nuanced way. I want to get rid of that as soon as possible. Because it wouldn't be good if there were S1 and S2 nurses. In some cases this suggestion has been raised and I see it in the contract, but not by the bank. The standard work of the district nurse must of course hear that, where necessary, you have coordination with the municipality. However, the municipalities and the health insurance companies point out that it has worked to set up a separate category linking the medical and social domain and looking at where the agreements between municipalities and health insurance companies have also started. What I want now is this. We need to move as quickly as possible to the simple fact that it belongs to the ordinary work of the district nurse that you, where necessary, seek the connection with the municipality. The question of funding will be how quickly that has been secured; is there still a need for support for a separate funding category? Or can we actually get rid of that already? As far as I am concerned, we must get rid of it as quickly as possible, but under the condition that that consultation is secured. I would like to discuss with the parties whether we could do so next year and what are the advantages and disadvantages of this. That's my nuanced answer. It shouldn't lead to us getting different kinds of nurses. Where that is the issue, sometimes that was also the issue, we have also said that this is not the intention, and so we have to look at whether the funding gives the right incentive to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u151	I was very curious about the time you think you need to answer the remaining questions from Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u152	I think I could close the case between now and ten minutes. I consider the comment to be an incentive to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u153	That was kind of the point. Mrs. Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u154	I'm glad to hear the Secretary of State wants to get rid of the cut as soon as possible. Did he also communicate that with health insurers and municipalities? There are municipalities where the health insurance company used the S1 neighbourhood nurse. It is housed in social neighbourhood teams and it is really too horrible for words sent on course to generalist look at care. A neighborhood nurse with an HBO education gets a course to look at it all a bit more generalistic. That's what's happening in municipalities now. So if the Secretary of State really wants to get rid of it as soon as possible, did he communicate it to health insurers and municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u155	Yes, and that doesn't mean that there are some things that I think should happen differently. That's what I'm responding to. I could also imagine that even where a district nurse prefers not to be positioned as an S1 but simply as a district nurse participates in the social district team, you talk to each other about what cooperation there is and how it should be coordinated. There is nothing wrong with the fact that training may also be needed. I want to get to a situation as soon as possible where it is an ordinary part of the normal nurse's work that occasionally contacts and coordination with the municipality. That's very good, too. That's what we've been encouraging with S1. We need to get rid of that as soon as possible in order to prevent it from being institutionalized, as it were, and you will have different district nurses. Where that happens wrongly now, we must point that out; I have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u156	Finally, Mrs Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u157	I really think that the Secretary of State should do this a little bit more firmly, because there are social neighbourhood teams where the district nurse has the only function to dictate and consult with the other members of the social district team and no connection, sprays, wash hands anymore. That's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u158	I don't think that's a good thing. I think it is a good thing if there are district nurses who, as part of their tasks, consult with municipalities and, where necessary, coordinate them. That is why I would like to see incentives and funding in the right direction. Mrs. Gerbrands had asked a few questions about the internship. Of course, I'm looking at that a little colored. I'll give that to Mrs. Gerbrands. But is it so crazy that someone walks with the neighborhood nurse care and, on that basis, arrives at observations that might help us all? I think that's actually very nice. I have also taken that view. That will be selective, as Mrs Leijten says outside the microphone...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u159	Then you don't have to respond to that either. A reaction really only needs to be made in the event of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u160	...but we all have our experiences, our practical experiences. There's nothing wrong with translating the experiences you gain and making politics grow. In fact, I think that is only beautiful, as I said in reply to Parliament's questions. Then, of course, there should be no reserved actions or actions that you should not be allowed to carry out. I also agree with Mrs Gerbrands that you should not let professionals do work for them. I have tried to point out in the answers that, apart from the way in which the work is organized, in the current situation there are many carers who support their partner in washing and dressing. That doesn't mean anything about the work that professionals have to do. That doesn't mean it's mandatory. It only shows that this is happening a great deal in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u161	So I can get really pissed off about this. That's exactly what I meant. What does a caretaker do? A caregiver helps to care for a close friend, a partner, a brother or a good friend. That's, like, me helping my mom wash. But my mother doesn't want an unqualified politician like Mr. Diederik Samsom getting her out of bed and washing her. However, that has been well explained by this Secretary of State. We have had the discussion about whether the personal care should go to the municipality, with the risk that volunteers will be used. The whole Chamber said: we do not want that. And now there's just a group chairman of a party making a little good decoration and shouting, "Everyone can get people out of bed and wash them." That's what my objection was about. I really want the Secretary of State to distance himself from that remark. Because that's not the case. Not everyone can get people out of bed and wash. Not every volunteer can. And a volunteer should not be confused with a caregiver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u162	I didn't want to confuse them either. I just wanted to say that there's nothing wrong with it. It happens, I think, also very much in the care and support that there are trainees who do a number of work under the supervision of a district nurse or a professional. If that happens in the case of Mr Samsom, then there is nothing wrong with that. It happens as an intern, under the supervision of a professional. Nor is it a question of carrying out reserved actions. We may appreciate that in a different way, but things do not happen against the meaning of a client and there are no reserved actions or actions that should not be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr Samsom also mentioned that he came home to dementias. They don't have the choice to say yes or no to that. The point I want to make is that we will not have to get the situation that people who are obliged to volunteer under the Participation Act to maintain their benefit will soon be sent to all kinds of people to get them out of bed and wash them. That would be extremely undesirable. This also detracts from the qualities of the caregivers and the nurses who run around there. An intern has already acquired a theoretical background. I think that Mr Samsom should accompany us. That's what he did as a street coach. Fine! Let's all do it as much as possible: walk everywhere. But don't tell me you'll be internship. And don't do things that aren't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u164	If it is formulated that way, I agree with Mrs Gerbrands. I come to the question about case management. I sent a letter to the Chamber about that. I think that we will also discuss this when we discuss progress reports. That letter states what is going well according to the NIVEL investigation, which is not going well and which we must pay attention to. In this area, we will discover what the best organisation for case management is. Should we keep keeping separate case managers for that? Or is it good to build in the neighborhood nurse care, for example with district nurses who have extra sense of it, so to speak? I'm not in agreement about that. I don't think one model is good and the other isn't. We now note that case management is very important. We've agreed to try as much as we can to keep the chains up. I see that choices are now being made to sometimes shift it from the case manager to the neighborhood nurse care. I have already promised the Chamber that I will send her a further letter on the dementia chain to see how this organisation can improve in the future, and certainly in the new system. The room can be assured that I'm on top of that. I come to Mrs Gerbrands' point about the search for a population-related funding. That's a point that goes a little bit wider. Is there any way to pay for it? And doesn't it lead to a lot of bureaucracy? I'm looking for the point we were talking about earlier: how can you make the funding so that there is room for professionals, that there are as few burdens as possible and that you match the client's question? We'll do it with the GPs, too. In general practitioners we also have a form of population-related funding, namely the subscription rate and the consultation rate. The subscription rate is a fairly simple rate. That means that, with some differentiation in it, you can come to a population benefit that actually works quite simply. We have not yet found that Columbus egg with regard to the neighborhood nurse's care, but I am working hard to achieve this. Population benefits can help us incredibly to ensure that we get well-suited care in the neighbourhoods and neighborhoods. At the same time, we want to reduce the administrative burden as much as possible. I think we can do this. We also see in the general practitioner's care that this worked. That doesn't mean that the neighborhood nurse can take care the same way, but it's worth investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u165	I suggest you speed it up, Secretary of State, because you have been speaking for almost an hour now and we have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u166	Can I make something right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u167	You want to correct something, Mrs. Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u168	Yes. I didn't say that. That's what the NZa said in her report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u169	Well, then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u170	Then I suppose we're in agreement. Mrs Keijzer asked: what exactly is going to change? As far as I'm concerned, we're going to change in the next step. How are we going to shape and finance the neighborhood nurse care? It will provide more space for the professional, less burdens and a link to the care given to those who need the care. Does the current Health Insurance Act give sufficient room for this? Sure. The claim formulated in the Health Insurance Act is: you have the right to health care such as district nurses who commit to providing. This means that the law as such gives enough room to make those kinds of choices. The art is now to ensure in your funding that it is supportive and not counter-indicative. Should the re-indications be removed from the table? No, not the re-indications, but I think that Mr Samsom has rightly drawn attention to the fact that in some cases district nurses are running against their limits with regard to the enormous workload involved in the re-indications. That is a little dependent on how the provider organized it; Mrs Keijzer is absolutely right about that. ZN has indicated in a letter that it is very willing to handle the deadline flexibly when healthcare providers ask. ZN recently confirmed this in the letter which Mrs Keijzer also received. I believe that this will make it possible for the district nurse to decide what is needed. There's a duty of care on the part of the insurers. Healthcare insurers won't say, "I can't provide that kind of care." In fact, health insurers may be most concerned about whether they are capable of budget control, because there is a duty of care and they ultimately have to pay for that care if it is indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u171	I have the same question to the Secretary of State as to Mrs Wolbert. If it is true that 75% is already re-indicated, I have even heard that figure, and that the date of 1 May is no longer valid, then you will get total inequality and arbitrariness. Then there is a group that is re-indicated and has been given less care, because all this had to be done before 1 May,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u172	You also asked that question in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u173	...and a group that doesn't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u174	I ask the Secretary of State if he is due to answer Mrs Keijzer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u175	It depends very much on where the re-indication leads and when the re-indication starts. You can't see that per person. For everyone there will be a re-indication. The deadline for that re-indication is also dependent on the re-indication itself. This year, everything needs to be re-indicated. The agreement, moreover, between insurers and suppliers, not on our part, was to settle this as soon as possible, also to promote clarity for the people. If there is any room there to relieve the administrative pressure on the district nurse, I think that is only right. Everyone will be re-indicated this year. Mrs Keijzer herself states that it has already happened in many cases. If that's one or two months later, it won't cause any problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u176	That sounds like a new deadline. Then it must have happened before July 1st. But if that's not the case, I'm hearing that a little bit from the debate. You'll have a difference right away. You have people who are unlucky enough to have a care institution that did manage it before May 1st and who get less care. Because, yeah, 400 million doesn't fall out of the sky. And you have a group that doesn't. I do not think that is in line with Mr Samsom's objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u177	Then Mrs Keijzer can already predict where that re-indication will lead. Sometimes it'll stay the same. Sometimes it'll rise. Sometimes it's gonna go down. Surely we cannot say in advance what all this means? That is precisely why it is so good that there is and remains a duty of care. I have answered some of Mrs Wolbert's questions before, but I have not answered one question yet. She actually asked me if I could simply say whether I do not think that there should be as few rates as possible and therefore as few registrations as possible. Yes, I think the aim should be that there should be as few tariffs and products as possible in the new funding and preferably no products at all. The ideal picture is to make one rate. Imagine if we succeeded; that would be the most beautiful thing. At the same time, we must be very careful that this does not mean that, for example, a healthcare provider would only take the easier cases and leave the more difficult cases to another. My aim is indeed to achieve this with as few rates as possible. This remains the aim of the new funding. Mrs Voortman asked whether the current reality is not already a choice. Yes, the reality is that we have opted for the Health Insurance Act with a broad wording in the claims. We have to work together to get the funding right. That is no other choice for positioning or funding, but we need to see how we can ensure that in the next step there is room for nurses. Mrs Voortman asked me whether I also believe that quality and procurement should be based mainly on quality as formulated by the profession. I would add that clients should also be involved. As we succeed, insurers' procurement policies will be based on quality criteria designed by the profession and clients. That is indeed the very best model. I know health insurance guys like that, too. Mr Krol asked if it was not as hoped. I don't think that's the case. All the laws that we have made with each other to shape the new concern is that we have it not only on paper, but also in practice. There will ultimately be an assessment of whether we are achieving the objectives we have set for the reform of care. I have just said that we will have to take the practice meter by meter and sometimes kilometer by kilometer. We must be very attentive to what is going well or not and to what we need to adjust. I note that we have a huge opportunity, especially in the area of nursing care. The central indication has expired and we are going to put the district nurse more in the lead. He or she will be given more space to practice the profession. We will not get too much bureaucracy again. Is that what's going on? That is what we are going to talk about in the progress report. We have long discussed the following questions in this Chamber. How exactly is the transition going? What about the continuity of care? Shouldn't we be very careful that the contracts are going well? Shouldn't we keep ten fingers on the wrist to make the transition go well? When I look at all these questions, I see that we have a controlled transition in this respect. Is that what this is all about? Read my letter: no, far from it! I have by law a whole list of things that need to be resolved in practice. We will also encounter bottlenecks that we all need to tackle. The fact that the transition has been controlled does not say anything about the work ahead of us. We are going to work on this with great courage in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u178	If I'm not mistaken, there's been a few questions left. I apologize if the Secretary of State has answered, but I missed that. I would like to briefly remind you of my questions. I had a question about the indications. I get the signal from the nurses that they sometimes spend 25% of their time on indications and re-indications. That is an enormous amount of time and therefore a lot of money is not spent on care. Does the Secretary of State see that problem? Are there any options for dealing with this problem in the short term, although there is now, of course, a bulk of re-indications?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u179	I think it's already been picked up in some cases. Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Wolbert pointed out that health care institutions that were already working to shape the indications are already ready. Whatever situation you're in, it's always gonna be necessary to get some re-indications from time to time. Now there is a bulk of re-indications that you should do at the beginning of the new system. To this end, Mr Samsom's appeal and the answer from the health insurance companies is that it is indeed negotiable to spread them a little more over time if it helps those who are now experiencing too much work pressure in it. I'm happy about that. I think it is an important step that the health insurance companies offer to ensure that it does not all have to be stuffed in too short a period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u180	The debate also covered freedom of choice; the innovative offer and identity-related offer. My group also considers it very important to retain freedom of choice. I read in the letter from V&VN that district nurses are very keen to provide comprehensive care, i.e. the indication, organisation of care and delivery of care, and that a pgb is less appropriate. That remark surprised me quite a bit. I have put aside the letter from Per Balance, in which it was said that there might have to be an independent body for it. I see a problem here. With all the fine words I would like to speak about the new organisation of community care, I can see that pgb's are getting a bit cramped. How are we gonna do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u181	I wouldn't be in favour of a new organ, because that might mean that we don't completely reduce the burden. It is a good thing that the professional indicates and then discuss how you want to pay for the care, and whether that is care in kind or a pgb. The right to the pgb was enshrined in the law and we're going to anchor it in the law that hopefully will come to the Chamber before the summer, after that of the Council of State is back. So I guess we shouldn't have a separate organ for it. I can imagine a district nurse thinking: I would rather give the care myself. But we have an indication. It needs to be done by a professional. Then it is up to the client to decide whether he wants care in kind or whether he wants a personal budget. This client is then very well informed by, for example, the health insurance provider and the district nurse about the consequences of a personalised budget. But it's not for nothing that we've agreed to anchor the pgb in all the laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u182	I have not yet had an answer to the question of how the Secretary of State looks at my household care rate of €20. But I have another question, because this is quite fundamental. The Secretary of State wrote in his letter that the district nurse is on the move and that determines what commitment of care is needed. The neighborhood nurse is in the lead, I hear the secretary of state always say in very nice Dutch. But the only thing that is regulated by the Health Insurance Act is that care should be provided that local nurses normally provide? For the rest, the Secretary of State with all his fine ideas about district nurse care, who shares the CDA, isn't it anymore? He just handed it over to the health insurance companies in the Health Insurance Act. They therefore decide for themselves what requirements they make. There is a simple example: we saw the same thing with the psychiatrists in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u183	I do not know exactly where this question leads, but it is true that the claim is well formulated: district nurse care such as district nurse who commit to providing. It is based on the indication by the professional himself. And there's a duty of care on the part of the insurers. It is true; that is what health insurers should try to manage as well as possible. That is what they are about, but they are based on the law's entitlement to care, which means that there is a duty to care and, for example, health insurance companies sometimes worry about whether it remains within the budget. I assume this reassures Mrs Keijzer, because at least care will be provided where this duty of care is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u184	No, because then you get that there are financial considerations going through the indication given by the district nurse. And you get that health insurance companies can make extra demands. That is what is happening now. So again, it's all wonderful what the Secretary of State says here. He's always very good at that. On this section, I share what he wants. He's just got the neighborhood nurse in the wrong law, and it's not about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u185	I disagree with Mrs Keijzer. That is precisely why we are working so hard with each other to regulate the objectives of the district health care not only well in the law, but also to translate them into appropriate funding. That is where we will see whether we are able to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u186	There's been a bit of me lying around. I have talked about the uncertainty of the elderly, about which district nurses express their concerns. I have talked about the unification and, for example, dehydration, about which general practitioners express their concerns. I have talked about the disruption that people see in their lives because domestic care disappears or significantly reduces and the daily spending is falling. This may make it all seem like a controlled operation, but there is a generation of elderly people and there are many chronically ill people who feel too much and too expensive for this society. How does the Secretary of State react to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u187	If there's something I want with these changes in care, it's responding to the fact that we're getting more elderly people who in many cases will stay home for longer and therefore have a different and sometimes heavier care question. That's what happens. So we need to think about how to put municipalities in a position to better regulate the support at home. We need to give the neighbourhood nurse care an impetus again, so that it is re-introduced or strengthened in healthcare. If things don't work out at home, we're gonna take care of the quality of the nursing home and we're gonna improve it. This is precisely intended to meet the future care demand and to remain proud of the care we are proud of in the Netherlands. And yes, I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that many elderly people are concerned about loneliness, for example. That's what I'm worried about. That is perhaps one of the most important problems of this and the coming time. I don't have the illusion that we can solve that with care alone. We do have to ensure that home support is more tailor-made, that we can look people in the eye, that we can bring back the district nurse, who is also more careful, into the neighbourhood and that there are social neighbourhood teams, who can not only keep an eye on things, but can also be preventive. If things don't work out at home, we'll get you some good nursing home care. It's gonna take changes. We don't always agree on that. But I hope that we do have that common goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u188	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u189	Day in and day out, it is said that care is too expensive and therefore needs to be cut. People see that they get less care, general practitioners do not get people with very serious conditions placed in a temporary facility, while they cannot be cared for at home. The cry from everyday practice is enormous. The Secretary of State sketches an image here as if the sun is shining everywhere and in the eyes of all the district nurses the lights are on. I don't hear that. They are proud of their work, but they're not proud of the fact that people not only unite, but also dry up and worry. I would like the Secretary of State to realize that there is now a generation of elderly and chronically ill who feel too much for this society. I'd like the Secretary of State to respond to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u190	The Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u191	I can assume, however, that when it comes to our generation of elderly people, you and I have exactly the same view that we have the best possible and affordable care to take care of, not only now, but also in the future. If we want to continue to take good care of the elderly, we cannot ignore the fact that people's wishes are changing and that there are more elderly people with sometimes more serious concerns. So we also need to think about the organisation of care, precisely because I want future care to be well organised, not only for the elderly today, but also for the elderly later on. The changes we are trying to make in the care sector are precisely aimed at providing good care in this changing care demand, with our changing population composition also tomorrow, including for people who cannot afford it themselves. That's what I'm gonna stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u192	This brings us to the end of the first term of office of the Secretary of State. If any questions remain, Mrs Dijkstra, you may repeat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u193	Yes, the answer can only be yes and no, or yes and yes. I'll give that to the Secretary of State. As a result of the pgb and the problems with the indication by district nurses, I asked questions. Will the Secretary of State undertake to identify the problems with Per Balance and resolve them where necessary? And when can the Chamber expect the bill that governs pgb in the Zvw?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u194	Consultations with Per Balance on indications and pgbs are taking place and will continue. I want to continue to work very closely with Per Balance to monitor what is happening in practice. So the answer is yes. I think I already gave the answer to the question about the bill. I have good hope that it can be offered to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u195	We shall proceed to the second term. Speaking time shall not exceed two minutes, including the reading of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u196	Mr. Chairman. I'll do my best. We are holding this debate tonight at the request of my group. Mr Samsom criticized the health insurers when it came to the district nurses. The Secretary of State says he sees this as an incentive. He doesn't think it's so much a criticism, because he's working on it. In fact, Mr Samsom expresses what we are doing, according to the Secretary of State. I therefore wonder whether this appeal from the PvdA group chairman has not been premature. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats obviously did not feel the same way at first, because it had a debate on these statements on the regulation. She withdrew it later. At that time I thought: what a pity that we cannot discuss this with each other. That is why this debate is still taking place. The statements have caused uncertainty. Nor have I received any answers this evening which show that this uncertainty is not justified. The Group Chairman of the Labour Party criticises the way in which the reform that the PvdA is co-responsible for has been implemented. I am very sorry that you recognize the PvdA in this: on the one hand, a certain policy is being implemented, on the other hand, all kinds of things are being said in the media. What's the consequence of that? That is not clear to me at all. I am therefore very curious about the motions that the Labour Party is about to table. I can't believe we're gonna get it. I myself am not entirely reassured by the answers of the Secretary of State on the restriction of freedom of choice. That's why, very quickly, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas postcode care results in restrictions on people's freedom to choose a healthcare provider that suits their preferences, wishes and background;]] [[Furthermore, considering that renewal of care is one of the objectives of the long-term care reform and that access to new innovative healthcare providers should therefore not be restricted;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the district care system continues to have the possibility to choose from several healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u197	Mr. Chairman. The leader of the Labour Party said that the financial importance at the moment is leading to the best care that can be provided. That is quite a strong statement now that we have heard the Secretary of State here tonight about his intention. He's pleased with this statement. That's exactly what we want, he says. No, I just want the financial interest not to hinder district nurses in what they have to do, namely to provide the best care. I know, however, that the Secretary of State committed the transfer of nursing care to the Health Insurance Act against the advice of the Dutch Health Authority. Last year we all read that the Dutch Healthcare Authority said that a. it went too fast and b. the austerity could not be achieved. But the latter must of course be the first: the cuts must be made. And now we're gonna think about questions like, what kind of assignment do we give the neighborhood nurse? How's he gonna indict? How do we get the funding model in order? Luckily, we've made the cut. That's how we know this Secretary of State. I've been aiming for the neighborhood nurse not to have that target on his neck anymore. Since the Secretary of State does not want to commit to this, I am obliged to table a motion on this matter. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a 20% discount target is imposed by health insurers and that it is rigidly translated into district nurses by the management of healthcare organisations;]] [[noting that the district nurse cannot do its job properly if one continues to focus on reducing financial risks rather than providing the best care;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that district nurses do not experience, have or have no discount target in an indication or re-indication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u198	While care is being burdened by bureaucracy, the Labour Party here says that it wants us to get rid of bureaucracy. Last year, I think the PvdA Group voted by mistake against a motion by the SP. I will give her another chance at the next vote to do something about it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the health insurance provider confronts the district nurse with increasing fragmentation and minute registration, which puts the risk of the care being crushed under managementism and new bureaucracy;]] [[calls on the government to put an immediate stop to the increasing bureaucracy in the district care system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u199	Then I have one last comment to make. I have asked the Secretary of State how he responds to the people who are slowly starting to feel too much in this society because of the accumulation of measures, less care and higher own contributions. He says it's his goal to serve these people with a mega-saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u200	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u201	I really hope he answers what those people are saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u202	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u203	They say: I am too much for this society, I don't need it anymore. I think we should take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u204	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I shall come back briefly to three topics. The first concerns reducing bureaucracy and red tape. It is a good thing that tonight has come up again with a clear picture of how broad it is and how tough it is on the other hand. We will be very happy to continue the debate on this subject. Reducing uncertainty is the second point. That has emerged in my first term and has been mentioned in several contributions this evening. The Secretary of State also states that he clearly has a commitment to providing as much clarity as possible as soon as possible. I would like to thank him in this respect for his commitment to resolve the questions that remain about living protected as soon as possible. The final point is freedom of choice. A motion by Mrs Dijkstra, signed by me, once again supports the importance of this freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u205	Then I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union. I'm trying to talk slowly, because I see she's writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u206	Mr. Chairman. I shall come straight back to the last interruption to the Secretary of State's speech. I think it is right that there should not be a whole new body for the indications for pgbs but that we should also give district nurses the opportunity to do so and give them time to get used to the whole new way of working. I have previously tabled a motion, along with colleague Hanke Bruins Slot of the CDA, on case management dementia. I can see that case management dementia is under pressure. Professionals get fired. The case management is housed with generally trained district nurses and case management may be given a place in the funding for 2016, but the uncertainty about this continues, even after the last letter from the State Secretary. As a result, good dementia chains are now being broken down. Research by the NIVEL shows that the standard of care for dementia is far from being met everywhere. As I said, I have previously tabled a motion on this point. I had held this motion pending the Secretary of State's letter. I want to put her to the vote next week anyway. I hope, of course, for the warm support of all my fellow Members. My group also attaches great importance to freedom of choice. I have a great deal of sympathy for the motion on postal code care that we should not be organizing with each other. My group will certainly support it. Since the pgb is also so good for freedom of choice, I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of applications for pgb are rejected after re-indication;]] [[noting that health insurers often make it impossible to combine care in kind and pgb;]] [[Considers that a pgb is a full alternative form of care, which has a high value for people with disabilities who are long-term dependent on care;]] [[calls on the Government, health insurance companies that widely reject the use of a pgb and make it impossible to combine care in kind and pgb, to address and identify why they are doing so, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u207	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That's the motion in part No. 15 (34104).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u209	I just heard the motion on the pgb, on freedom of choice and on the pgb and the Health Insurance Act. Following Mr Samsom's escapades, does the Christian Union feel free to work with the CDA to ensure that the pgb in the health insurance law also applies to 65-plussers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u210	I am a little surprised by Mrs Keijzer's question, because I believe that the pgb applies to everyone under the Health Insurance Act. My motion is aimed precisely at the fact that if health insurers do not grant a pgb for any reason, for example because of an age limit, we must ensure, with all that is in us, that the people who want to receive the pgb get it. So I think Mrs Keijzer is being served on her beck and call by the motion I have just tabled. I am therefore counting on support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u211	I wish there was a pgb for 65-plussers, too. In the conditions, however, it has been agreed that there can be no pgb in the case of ordinary old age problems. In fact, this has already been brought to our attention by the elderly organisations in recent days. So I understand that Mrs Dik is mistaken. This gives us every opportunity to get everyone to get this terrible discrimination against our older Dutch people off the table when we have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u212	I look forward to the CDA Group's proposals with interest. I said about the pgb I wanted to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr. Chairman. So this debate was indeed for the stage. I don't expect butter with the fish of the PvdA. It's been a lot of noise, with few balls behind it, let's just say. I do have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current implementation of nursing, care and care services is not working properly;]] [[noting that Buurtzorg has proven to provide cheaper and more efficient care with its method, without management and without unnecessary rules within the AWBZ;]] [[believes that the approach of neighbourhood care should be developed as best practice in the country;]] [[calls on the Government, Nursing, Nursing and District Nursing to provide care in the Wlz,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u214	Finally, I do not have the confidence that we are going to make it with the 400 million discount. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove the proposed cuts in nursing and care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr. Chairman. I'm here tonight to see if anything is going to change for patients, clients and district nurses after the interview with the PvdA group chairman. I am sorry to say that after tonight I have to conclude that it has been a chat for the stage. The only thing we can look forward to is a change in funding. He was already on his way. Moreover, it will only be introduced in 2017. For the time being, that will make no difference. I regret that, because this gives many people the feeling that nothing is being done and said in politics without any real action being taken. This also applies to the choice to privatise the health care department and to bring it under the Health Insurance Act. That is why we have put it at a distance and we are no longer dealing with it. The CDA wasn't for that, but unfortunately it's a given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u216	Do you have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u217	Yeah, but I have two minutes to speak, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u218	You still have a minute. I don't know how many motions you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u219	I don't have that long a motion, so it's gonna work. It's really big in here, so it's going great. Thank you for your concern, Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas carers sometimes provide caregivers who require seven times 24 hours of care and care;]] [[Whereas care provided by carers to their loved ones is much cheaper than care provided in an institution;]] [[considers that the amount of €20 for carers in the Health Insurance Act appears to have been randomly chosen and the amount has not yet been fixed in the Long-Term Care Act;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate whether the €20 is sufficient for carers and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2015, and until that time to apply the standard pgb rate in both the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u220	Finally, I would like to comment on the re-indications and indications by the district nurses in the Health Insurance Act. While we were sitting here talking, I received an e-mail in which a chronically ill person in a wheelchair told me that he had received a re-indication of personal care. This one's for six weeks. A six-month re-evaluation will follow. Once every six months, there will be a re-indication. What is the Secretary of State going to do to prevent chronically ill people from constantly being re-indicted so that they simply can count on their care without all this crazyness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u221	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his first-term replies. The Labour Party wants a strong first line with the professionals first and with district nurses who have their professional and proud back. Above all, we also want less administration through less complex funding. If things don't work out the way we want it to, we're the first ones to think it should be better. We will be the first to believe that implementation needs to be addressed and changed. In short, I believe that my contribution has made the position of the Labour Party very clear. The direction is good, but the execution should be better. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the transfer of the district nurse care to the Health Insurance Act created the possibility of dropping indications, enabling the district nurse to provide flexible appropriate care and to organise a strong first line of which the district nurse is an integral part;]] [[noting that the method of financing has a significant impact on the administrative burden experienced by district nurses;]] [[believes that the new funding of community care should be based on trust and space for the professional;]] [[Calls on the Government, in cooperation with providers, insurers and professional groups, to adopt a new method of funding by 2017, based on population characteristics, aiming at a single rate (or a few) so that district nurses have maximum room to do their work;]] [[calls on the Government to take preparatory steps in 2015 and 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, in the meantime, that administrative pressure on district nurses is reduced by streamlining the process of re-indications and reducing the registration burden as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wolbert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u222	Mr. Chairman. We had a debate today in response to Mr Samsom's statements in NRC Handelsblad on neighbourhood nursing. I have raised the following question: is there talk for the stage or is there really a willingness to change the current practice, so that caregivers are faced with less bureaucracy of health insurers? I did a concrete thing and I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas health insurers impose and request their own quality standards for the care of the neighbourhood;]] [[noting that providers are therefore required to provide a wide range of data;]] [[Whereas client assessments, health outcomes and professional standards should be the starting point for quality standards;]] [[considers that uniform quality standards provide clear and without unnecessary administrative burdens an insight into the quality of community care;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the establishment of uniform quality standards in consultation with clients and professional groups, so that health insurers no longer entrust health care providers with their own demand for quality information,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Wolbert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u223	GroenLinks cannot say it often enough: the personal budget is equivalent to care in kind and should also be an equivalent alternative. As far as we are concerned, health insurers should not simply reject the personal budget. That is why we have tabled a motion together with the Christian Union on this issue, because it is up to you to decide whether you will receive a personal budget or care in kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u224	That's the motion we were just discussing. I assume that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that there can also be a pgb if people need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u225	I think Mrs Keijzer has previously tabled a motion to that effect. He was then able to count on the support of GroenLinks. Well, that could happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u226	It's good to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u227	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. It is remarkable to see that the Secretary of State became emotional when he came to speak about the concept of "controlled." Our concern remains whether we are really doing everything we can to avoid bureaucracy. That is why 50PLUS has one motion in support of Mr Samsom and thus of the Secretary of State. Mr Samsom spoke about calling health insurance companies to order. Those words can, rightly, be a bit harsh. That's why, for the sake of caution, I'm gonna translate them into "speak." That sounds a little more friendly, but I mean exactly the same as Mr Samsom. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the district nurse is one of the key figures in the new healthcare system;]] [[Whereas, also according to the Government, the possibility of carrying out this profession at its own discretion is a very important prerequisite for good care;]] [[Whereas health insurers impose so many rules and requirements on the work of district nurses that the regulatory burden is disproportionate;]] [[calls on the government to appeal to health insurers to ensure that the district nurse as a professional is given the necessary and intended space,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u228	Mr. Chairman. What became clear today is that bringing the district nurses back into the neighborhood, with their own funding, is real work in progress. There is already very good work done by professionals, but it is very good that the Secretary of State indicates that he is moving forward with the field and the experts to arrive at an appropriate funding model. As it is now, no one is entirely satisfied. The funding model should be in line with good care and avoid displacement towards the Long-Term Care Act. And, of course, we must also work together to achieve the budgetary framework conditions. Finally. It has already been said by others, but I would like to stress once again that it is very important to speed up the achievement of quality standards for community nursing care. Those quality standards should lead the way in determining which healthcare provider provides good care, which healthcare provider receives a contract and can be chosen. This should not be determined by the colour of the supplier's sweater.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u229	We have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u230	Mr. Chairman. I will try to get a quick explanation of the motions that have been tabled. In the motion in part No. 26 the government is invited to ensure that the district care system continues to have the option of choosing multiple healthcare providers. I consider this to be a call to ensure that the possibility now contained in the Health Insurance Act will remain the option for multiple healthcare providers as well. I therefore consider this motion to be a policy support and leave it to the Chamber to decide. It seems to me to be a good method, based on a professional judgement of the district nurse, for a good combination of quality and cost control. The motion in part No. 27 assumes that no target is experienced, or is, or should be applied. The mission is here. My plea is that, as we manage to give the professional the space, it is then possible to complete that task. I would like to introduce it in substance and not by means of an overall discount or the cheese-shaving method. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u231	I find it quite a bit: the mission is there, so the district nurses have to carry her out. When we debated whether this 400 million could be cut, the Secretary of State said that this could be done through working methods, reducing bureaucracy and making it more coherent. People at home don't need minutes to miss here. I'm assuming that the contents of the care are paramount. What does Mr Samsom see now? That the financial importance precedes good care. The message of this motion is that the latter goes first. The Secretary of State says yes here, but everything within the framework of the mandate. In doing so, he really deviates from Mr Samsom's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u232	I disagree with Mrs Leijten. Moreover, Mr Samsom's appeal is also the policy that I have already put forward several times and which appears to be working in practice. This is where professionals have the space and in consultation with those concerned can reach good agreements on the provision of care, sometimes a little more in the beginning and with a reduction later, it is quite possible to improve both the quality of care and to work cheaper. As a result, the task is feasible. It's not about putting the job ahead, it's about making it possible by giving the professional more space. We must not deny that the mission is there. It is precisely through the method of working that you can properly complete the task. For this reason, I'm sticking to my interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u233	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u234	So the Secretary of State says here that what Mr Samsom has found is an excellent observation of reality. He noted that district nurses were sent out to make 50 minutes of an hour and to apply this. That's what health insurers and rigid employers put on the neck of the neighborhood nurse. The Secretary of State is now saying: it's just the way it is and I have to make my cut. It is good that Mr Samsom knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u235	I do not think I have spoken with the words used by Mrs Leijten here. I agree with that in the debate and Mr Samsom has also pointed out that achieving cheaper care while maintaining quality requires that you do not go into the neighborhood with a cheese-shaving method, but that you give the professional the opportunity to do so. In practice, this is also feasible. I very much support that call, and that is also the way in which health insurers and healthcare providers should do it with each other. In the motion in part No. 28 The government is invited to put an immediate stop to the increasing bureaucracy in community care. This sounds very nice. We have pointed out what we are doing throughout the debate. It's a long-term matter for the same purpose. I have a preference for the wording in the motion in part No. 10. Mrs Leijten may be able to understand this, but perhaps she does not agree. For that reason, I have the motion in part no. 28 dissuade. Then I have the motion in part no. 29 for me, asking for health insurers who make the combination impossible to address and identify why they are doing this. The combination of care in kind and pgb is possible. We are and will continue to do so in response to Mrs Dijkstra's questions. If I may interpret the Chamber's request in such a way that I am there where there is discussion about whether it is going well in practice to discuss it with insurers and inform the Chamber about it, especially when we are talking about the progress report, and so I will remain in consultation with Per Recht and insurers to see where it is not going in practice as it is intended, I should like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u236	In practice I hear that the combination of care in kind and pgb is not always and everywhere possible. The Court has regulated this well in legislation, but in practice it does not happen everywhere. Today there was news in the media again about health insurers who hold off many personal budgets. This is the subject of discussion in the country. I would be very pleased if we could now have a clear view of how often this is happening and for what reasons the health insurance companies are doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u237	It remains the responsibility of the insurers. Of course, we must continue to respect that. At the same time, we must continue to see whether this is going well, in accordance with the intentions we have discussed here. That is why I have the willingness to consult with insurers if necessary. In the motion in part No. 30 The Government is asked to accommodate nursing and care in the Long-term Care Act. Mrs Gerbrands will understand that I will wish to discourage this motion. We have already had extensive debates on this and we will not increase certainty if we go along with it. So I'd like to dissuade her. The same applies to the motion in part No. 31 proposing to delete the cuts. I don't think Mrs. Gerbrands is looking for full coverage. However, financial sustainability of care is also an important part of the reforms, precisely in order to maintain reliability for the future. I therefore advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 32 is about the €20 for the carers. We've talked about that extensively. We have also established with each other that this is a good way. I would point out that this measure replaced the ten-hour measure. We have taken a measure in which we have come to a reasonable balance and made room to get used to it. We mentioned the date of May 1st. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. I do not want to go back to the decisions we have already taken on that point. I now come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 33. There are quite a number of things that are being asked and are, as it were, trying to set out the objectives that we have set together in this debate: population characteristics, striving for one or a few rates and maximum space for district nurses. I believe that this motion expresses what we have tried to discuss in this debate. It is also my objective to create a system in which we have as few tariff settings as possible and as few different profiles or boxes as possible, which will only increase the burden. However, we also discussed in the debate that we should strive as much as possible for one or a few rates, but that we should not, on the basis of this one rate, avoid difficult cases and therefore go into cherrypicking. Mr Rutte pointed out that there could be some kind of automatic displacement to the Long-Term Care Act. So I'd like to keep an eye on that. The questions put by Mr Rutte on this point are, I think, important framework conditions in the effort to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u238	What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u239	If that's the way the motion stands, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. The point I make is that the prevention of cherrypicking and improper displacement to the Long-Term Care Act remains part of the further elaboration of this motion. I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u240	I have one more question, Mr President. It's so wrong in the neighborhood nursing that Diederik Samsom thought it was time for an emergency cry. The only thing we have at the end of this debate is a motion in which all that is in it is just standing policy and being prepared to be implemented. Is it not a pubic motion and should it not therefore be declared superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u241	Two comments. It is not so bad in the district care that we now have to take a completely different course. We have made good choices in this area, which also means that district nurses think that the space that is now being offered is good. What Mr Samsom and I, and also the Chamber, are calling for when I hear it, is to ensure, in the further development of, for example, the funding that we have set together, that the objectives we have set together are reflected in them. That is Mr Samsom's appeal, that is my appeal, and that is the appeal of the Chamber as I understand it here. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber. In the Voortman/Wolbert motion in part No. 34 the government is invited to monitor the establishment of uniform quality standards so that health insurers no longer burden carers with their own demand. The system of the Health Insurance Act is that we ask health insurance companies to pay attention to the quality. This motion expresses: make sure that good quality standards are put in place by the profession in consultation with clients so that this is not necessary. I would like to say that we are ensuring that caregivers are no longer required to ask for quality information. This puts pressure on both sides: on the one hand, we are ensuring that these quality standards are achieved. If we have them then they are the basis for a good procurement policy of the health insurance companies on the other hand. That's how we keep each other sharp. My suggestion would be to formulate it that way. Then I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u242	This raises the question whether there are also situations where it would be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u243	This is the case, for example, in the situation where there are no quality standards at all and we ask insurers to ensure that quality standards are developed or that quality standards are set when buying care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u244	But is it the responsibility of the Secretary of State to ensure that these uniform quality standards are made by clients and professionals? Does he think that's very important?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u245	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u246	Then I guess I can change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u247	Thank you. Then I come to the Krol motion on part No. 35. I find her rather elegantly worded in the sense that Mr Krol is trying to find some kind of translation for whatever we have exchanged in the debate. Since we have talked all the time in this debate about the fact that we are going to create room for the district nurse as a professional, that we are calling on health insurers and healthcare providers to do so and that we are going to design a funding system that meets this as much as possible, I think that the motion is superfluous and I would advise her not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u248	I find that strange, because the Secretary of State advised my motion on tackling bureaucracy because he felt more at the motion in part no. 35. Is the outcome of the debate that the cabinet is pushing away everything that is brought in by the opposition, and that the motion is being embraced which has long been clear that it is a preparation of the Labour Party's policy? Is that the outcome of the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u249	If I am not mistaken, a number of motions have also been tabled by non-coalition parties on which I have left the judgement to the Chamber. I'm trying to listen to arguments and not where they come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-8.u250	This brings us to the end of this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, his officials, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate via the Internet or any other medium.
