ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. We spoke today about Schengen and Schengen is very important. Dutch trucks pass 24,000 times a day borders. European citizens travel more than 1.25 billion a year across the Schengen area. It is therefore not surprising that citizens of the European Union regard free travel within Schengen as one of the greatest achievements, as something that has brought their country and their economy the greatest benefit. From that perspective, I consider it crucial that we retain Schengen. To underline this, also in the light of the comments made by the Finance Minister, Mr Dijsselbloem, when he publicly speculated about a mini-Schengen, a micro-Schengen, with only a limited number of countries, my group is asking for a clear statement from the Chamber today. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the free movement of persons is one of the greatest achievements of European cooperation;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to maintain Schengen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-368]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u2	This is one of those motions that you can't or can't oppose, or not for, depending on where you stand. What is meant by "putting everything on everything"? I'm gonna need a little more explanation anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u3	As I said just now, free travel within Schengen is crucial not only for the pleasure of EU residents who want to go somewhere, but also for our economy. If certain ministers at this time speculate that the free zone should only be reduced to a very limited area, I do not think that is the right way forward. I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that this free area is maintained as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u4	There are many advantages to Schengen, especially for a country like the Netherlands. However, if you look at what is happening in the world now, you will see that, if nothing changes at the external borders of Europe now, we will at some point find ourselves in a situation where there is almost no alternative, no matter how annoying that might be. So what are we supposed to do with a verdict like that? There are parties who are blind to that, there are parties who are blind to it, but you must also look at what is going on in the refugee issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u5	I understand that it is difficult for Mrs Keijzer to determine what should be the position of her party in this matter. That's also because her party doesn't know what to do with this. Let me just establish that. The refugee flows that Mrs Keijzer is talking about are not only Schengen but also border surveillance. In this respect, Mrs Keijzer's party and my party find each other interesting. The idea is to preserve Schengen. Then you need to focus on all the things that are needed to preserve Schengen, including effective European border control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u6	Do I understand correctly that Mr Sjoerdsma wants a ruling from the Chamber on this, despite the fact that we have just heard in the debate of the Secretary of State, who is responsible for this, that his position and that of the Cabinet is to preserve Schengen? Why does the House still have to speak about this when the purpose of the cabinet is to preserve Schengen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u7	I find that a little less strange, because a minister of a different colour than Mr Azmani openly speculated about a very different commitment of this cabinet and about a completely different scenario, that of a mini-Schengen. Yes, this Secretary of State has been quite clear. He also talked about a number of countries. There are two elements in Schengen: one is the functioning of the Schengen area, two is the scope of the area. I'd like to see that coverage stays as high as possible. I do not want to anticipate Article 26 of the Schengen Convention. All of this exists, and you must be able to use it all, but it must be maximum in my group. With the support of this motion, I would like to send this Secretary of State to Brussels with a clear signal to his European colleagues. Then I have a second motion. I actually hope that the Secretary of State will just promise what it says. We've already exchanged a little bit about that in the AO, but we didn't have enough time to finish it. It concerns the evaluation of the safe country list. The Secretary of State believes that this evaluation should not take place after a year. I agree with him; let us do so after a reasonable period of three years as far as I am concerned. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government is to work with a "safe country list" which will assume that applications from securely declared countries will not be accepted;]] [[whereas, therefore, there is a heavier burden of proof on the applicant in order to make it plausible that he is eligible for international protection;]] [[calls on the Government to have the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs (ACVZ) monitor this policy and, after three years, assess whether the careful asylum procedure remains secure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-369]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. The EU has concluded a dragon of an agreement with Turkey, and unfortunately the cabinet has also fallen for it. Look what Turkey gets: accelerated visa waiver for all Turks who want to go to the EU, new EU accession talks, and the EU is also going to take over Syrian refugees from Turkey. The latter acknowledged the Secretary of State this afternoon, but he claimed that no numbers were discussed. On the other hand, Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán mentioned half a million. That agreement is no good. Rutte and the cabinet have been paged by the tyrant Erdogan. The PVV has a lot of reason to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to oppose the EU-Turkey migration agreement and the Dutch borders for asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-370]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. Later on in the debate, I was once again surprised, because the clarity that the Secretary of State had given here earlier when it came to not allowing people from outside the EU to come to the EU and the Netherlands, unless they were invited through the UNHCR, turned out to be different from previous information. The Secretary of State now states that people from outside the EU can still apply for asylum in the Netherlands. Then they won't be sent back by definition. But we are talking, for example, about the regions with which we have not agreed. That is all the more amazing, because the cabinet is doing everything in its power to close the borders as much as possible, for example because of that deal with Turkey, where we stopped again today. It seems a bit like we are saying: wait a minute, it must always be the case that refugees worldwide must also be able to count on asylum in the Netherlands, provided that they meet certain conditions. But in order to avoid that as much as possible, we are already going to close all access routes to the Netherlands. In my view, the UN Refugee Convention is not meant to be this way, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the Netherlands will continue its efforts to comply with the UN Refugee Convention now and in the future;]] [[calls on the government, both in the Netherlands and in the EU, to act in this way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-371]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u10	Why, according to Mrs Gesthuizen, is it contrary to the UN Refugee Treaty when a country takes its own responsibility in the context of stopping illegal migration? I just don't understand her reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u11	I asked the Secretary of State for that very literally last time. If it is said as Mr Azmani is doing, it is not clear. It is precisely because I have heard the Secretary of State say from the profession he is now in: we are trying to stop the inclusion of refugees in the Netherlands from outside the European Union in the future, as the Azamni plan actually proposes, so Europe for European refugees and refugees from outside the European Union must be taken into account in the region; we just want to work with a stream of people who are eligible for resettlement through the UNHCR. If you explain it that way, without the addition that the Secretary of State gave during the general discussion this afternoon, namely "yes, except for the conflict regions," then that simply means that you ignore what is in the UN Refugee Convention, namely that someone who has to fear war and persecution, should certainly be able to apply for asylum in the Netherlands. Then it doesn't fit to say "we're already going to work on closing the doors," as the PVV would like and as apparently the government of VVD and PvdA would very much like, without ensuring that people can go to other places. I understand that Mr Azmani is not satisfied with this, but once again my explanation. It is fine to introduce border controls and register people, but not to close borders for people at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you for your explanation. Mr Azmani does not wish to make a contribution. This has put an end to the Chamber's term. The Secretary of State jumps out of his chair. He is still in the flow of the debate at the beginning of this afternoon and now goes into the motions that have been tabled. I call the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Sjoerdsma's motion on item No. 368. It's hard for me, too. Indeed, we prefer to use a solution with 28 European Member States and 26 Schengen countries, but keeping Schengen means not only a list of countries that are members of it. Maintaining Schengen means what is physically underneath it. There may be a situation where we are faced with a dilemma, namely either holding up the list of countries or holding up the values of Schengen with a shorter list. Preferably we both do, and that's what we put our bets on. If Mr Sjoerdsma means the same thing, I think the motion is superfluous. However, I can see in 'everything' and not talking about scenarios that can happen unexpectedly, however, a limitation of the way in which we as a cabinet operate in this. It is not a goal to have a smaller Schengen. The aim is to have as much Schengen as possible that works. The positive achievements of free travel, the economic aspects and the joint responsibility for external borders, also related to asylum policy, must be maintained. I have the impression that the motion has a slightly different approach, which is why I'm betraying her. I come to Mr Sjoerdsma's second motion, No. 369. I can promise to monitor it myself and to involve the ACVZ in an evaluation. To have this monitored by the ACVZ, as expressed in the motion, is an improper task. The ACVZ can of course always watch and give an opinion on the procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u14	On that last point, the Secretary of State is right. If I may explain the answer in such a way that the Secretary of State himself monitors and asks the ACVZ to carry out the evaluation in three years' time, I withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u16	Did I hear you say you're withdrawing your motion, Mr. Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u17	I see you're shocked, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u18	Well, no, I just didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u19	This commitment is such that I wish to withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u20	Since the Sjoerdsma motion (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u21	I come to the Fritsma motion in part No. 370. We really disagree about this. We did not make an agreement with Turkey last Sunday to change our opinion. I advise against this motion. I note that the PVV is against an agreement that should reduce the influx of asylum seekers to Europe and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u22	The EU's deal is terrible, because it will result in an additional influx of migrants: Turkish migrants, who will soon be exempt from a visa. Turkey may join the EU shortly, thanks to this cabinet. That's gonna be a disaster. Then we are not even talking about the redistribution plans that have also been discussed. The EU is going to take Syrian refugees from Turkey. The Secretary of State acknowledges that, but can't even say how many refugees are involved. I wonder what kind of deal has been made with Turkey if it is not even clear how many Syrian refugees the EU receives extra. At least call him man and horse and tell him what it's about. Name numbers, because at least we'll know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u23	I note that Mr Fritsma is against an agreement with Turkey, which has only one objective, namely to make it clear to both parties that the number of asylum seekers coming to Europe through Turkey, regardless of where they come from, is falling. That word should sound familiar to him. If he's upset that there might be something that could have an effect and that he didn't make up himself, then he may be against it. That's everyone's right. There are also hooks and eyes to such an agreement, but this agreement will ensure, if it works, that fewer people are coming and not that more people are coming. I can't make it simpler and clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u24	I didn't get an answer to my question. There is talk of the redistribution of Syrian refugees brought to the EU. That's what the Cabinet signs for. How many refugees are we talking about? Surely you cannot talk to Turkey without making it clear? Or is this a blank cheque again? Are you going to be blackmailed by Turkey again on this point? Does Turkey again have the freedom to do what it wants? I would like an answer to that. Finally, the cabinet should not become dependent on the EU and Turkey. If you really want fewer asylum seekers, you should not have such vague agreements, but then you close the Dutch borders so that we ourselves can ensure that no more asylum seekers enter. The cabinet always doesn't; that's the biggest mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u25	You can build so many fences around the Netherlands, but the dependence remains in an international spectrum. The question is, how do you deal with that? You can then stick your head in the sand and say that there are no other countries left because you don't see them, but that doesn't seem to me to be a responsible way of doing politics. Mr Fritsma has already had the same answer in the AO several times. It has been agreed that if Turkey does indeed ensure that that influx approaches zero, burden sharing, burden sharing, can be done to resettle a number of people. That number is much lower than the number of people who would have come spontaneously if Turkey did not close that border. The numbers aren't gonna come in one go. They're not clear now. The extent to which success is achieved in reducing spontaneous influx is characterised by communicating vessels. The conclusion of each calculation can only be that the number of asylum seekers coming to Europe via Turkey is falling. That will always, in whatever arrangement, be the net effect. Otherwise, the deal didn't work, we're back to square one, and we have to do it another way. We have already discussed this in the AO. I come to Mrs Gesthuizen's contribution. I just want to say that I don't feel like I've said anything different twice. The goal is that you make agreements with the region that will allow you to take care of the region, contribute to it, take responsibility for it, which will cost money and practical support. In doing so, you want to take the pressure off the boiler, which can then become very large in that region through resettlement as a mechanism. In addition, I have said that I can well imagine that in future too, if there are such agreements, there are regions in the world where it is still the aim to make that agreement, but where there is no such agreement, or where the number of refugees from that region is so small and individually determined, that it is not appropriate to make agreements. For those people, you'll always have the asylum route open. In concrete terms, if we have agreements with the whole of Africa and the whole of the Middle East, if someone comes here to say that he is from North Korea and that it wasn't very nice and if we don't have agreements with that region then that person can get his asylum application dealt with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u26	It avenges itself that it's just not right in the core. There's such a thing as human rights. The Netherlands has simply promised to implement the UN Refugee Convention and the Netherlands recognises the needs and the principle that people, for example, even if they were to break free here, have the right to find asylum and security elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u28	The Secretary of State can make deals worldwide and make agreements with whatever regions he wants to do so, but that does not affect the rights of people fleeing war. There are over 60 million people no one wants. This does not affect the rights of those people to apply for asylum in a country such as the Netherlands. The UN Refugee Convention also makes it very clear that you do not send people back if they do not have a clear link with the country you are sending them back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u29	In any case, it is nice that we now have clarity and that a political difference of opinion remains. That's what makes things sharper. People continue to have the right to flee and remain entitled to a safe place. Apart from the right that people have to have security somewhere, I find and also the cabinet that we as the Netherlands share responsibility for the fact that people can have that safe place. Does that safe place always have to be in the Netherlands? No, I don't, the cabinet doesn't, and neither does the treaty. If you don't have good agreements about a place where people who can have security will always be stronger than the connection with this area, you can't do that. That's why it's a goal. To this I link the realism that this may not always work for all regions. For these regions, of course, we have the procedure as it is today. That is why I advise against this motion, which runs counter to the Refugee Convention. We do not regard this contradiction as a cabinet. I can't read it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u30	Why is the Secretary of State doing this? Why does the Secretary of State begin this at the time of the biggest refugee crisis ever, worldwide? There are more than 60 million refugees, 10 million more than in the Second World War, the time when we decided that there was a need for something like the Refugee Convention. Why is he picking on that now and undermining the treaty to which so many people worldwide owe their lives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u31	I and the cabinet do not harm anything. We're not picking on a treaty. Perhaps we are questioning an interpretation of the Treaty which was long-standing and bearable. This interpretation was based on the assumption that anyone who wants asylum in the Netherlands can get it and that people are not only entitled to a safe place, other than the home country that has already become safe, but also to the choice of that place. When it comes to very limited matters, this debate is less appropriate than when the problem gets bigger and the number of countries that are willing to take and bear that responsibility decreases, thereby weakening the values under the Treaty. I believe that you can then quite legitimately return to your responsibility as is the law of the treaty: to share responsibility and to ensure that that safe place of refuge is there, preferably as close to home as possible. We should not maintain or have an interpretation of the Convention that is not in place and that we have not committed ourselves to, namely that asylum must always take place in the Netherlands. That is also virtually impossible to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u32	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers and for coming to the Chamber. We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions which have been tabled.
