ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u1	I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me thank the Members of your Chamber for asking many, rightly and critical questions and making a large number of comments. Before I get there, I think it is right that I should first reply to the point raised by Mr Oskam directly at the beginning of the first term by your Chamber, namely whether the notice of office of the Public Prosecutor as it was sent to me would also be sent to your Chamber. I note for a moment that no request from your Chamber has ever been made to send that message of office, but if that request had been made, I would have replied that messages from the Public Prosecutor's Office are never sent to the Chamber, precisely because the Public Prosecutor's Office must be able to rely on the confidentiality of official messages and contain very confidential information by their very nature. In addition, I say that in this case there is no reason to send the notice to the Chamber, because there is no doubt as to what is in the notice of office. The Public Prosecutor's Office recognizes, as the letter also shows, that the context of what we are discussing today, the context in which I came up with my answer in Question Time, was not mentioned in the notice of office. The Public Prosecutor's Office also acknowledges that this context should have been included in the notice. In abundance, I say that the reading of everything in the letter is supported by the lawyer. That is why I will not respond to Mr Oskam's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u3	One answer triggered me, namely that no official messages are ever sent to the Chamber. I remember the Cat house fire. That's when it happened. So my question is once again for the Minister: will he give the office of the District Attorney to the Chamber for Question Time in this case, or will he make it confidential for inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u4	I was not involved in the discussion about the Catshuisbrand, but one thing is certain: there is no discussion about what was and was not in the post. That's what the Public Prosecutor's Office is clear about in the letter. That is why it makes no sense to send that to the Chamber, apart from the bigger problem that the Public Prosecutor should never ask himself whether, if she sends a message of office to a minister, she should take into account that this message of office will ever be on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u5	For the time being, I respect the Minister's choice. Since he himself refers to the post in the letter, we are of course free to ask questions about exactly what is in it. I assume that the Minister will respond freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u6	It sounds a little complicated in this debate, but I will always answer the questions of the Chamber, even when it comes to the post, but I will confine myself to what is already in the letter. That much more is not going on with regard to the message of office either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u7	I think this is kind of crucial. The Minister says: I have been briefed on the basis of that message. We can't control that, because what's "summer"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'll get back to you on that. By the way, I was not briefed by the notice of office. The ministry report tells us how it came about... no, I have to put it another way. The post is based on what the Public Prosecutor's Office knew about the photo on June 16-17, 2014. The paper says they knew about the photo. The lawyer had reported that the photo would be taken and published on 17 June. In addition, a lot of attention has been paid to the question whether these photos and their publication were violations of the media ban. That is the essence of everything that has happened before Question Time. All the information the Public Prosecutor provided me, but also the conversations on my own department, were all focused on that one essential question, which the newspapers also wrote about and what Reporter reported about: did Van der G. violate the media ban by staging the photo? In that focus, information has come to me, including by those who have informed me orally in the run-up to Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u9	I continue to find it difficult that in July it was already known that this broadcast would take place. That was known within the Ministry. Then there's the broadcast. Then the Minister can expect him to have this type of question, can't he? I'm going to continue to think this is very crucial. What did the Minister know at the moment he was here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u10	I'll come back to that in a moment. I fully agree with Mrs Berndsen. All the information I received was provided... you base yourself on answering questions on the notice of office, because the Public Prosecutor is responsible for parole. The question was centered on the discussion whether publishing the photo was yes or no a violation of the media ban. That was also the question I came to the Chamber with. That was also the question that Mr Van Oosten has asked me, as he did in the debate today. That's how I came to the Chamber. On the basis of the notice of office, I gave the answer. In doing so, I indicated that, knowing what I know now, I should have done differently. I'd have two choices, but I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u11	There was no information in the post about the creation of the photo in consultation or even on the initiative of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u12	That's right, that's not what it said. In the meantime, the Public Prosecutor's Office has indicated, as you could have read in the letter, that he would have liked it better if that context had been included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u13	Given the history, isn't it incredible that that's not in there? I take the Minister's word for it. That's the way it's supposed to be, of course. There has also been oral communication by telephone. Is it not said in any way in that phone call: it is not in the post, but knows that we have a whole history and that we are involved as initiators?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u14	If that had been the message, I would have replied differently in Question Time. As I wrote in the letter, I was briefly informed orally and with a limited focus on the history prior to Question Time. I have been told that in the preliminary stage we have discussed the possibility of taking a picture. I did not conclude from that that, if I answered the questions that Mr van Oosten asked me about the violation of the media ban, with the restriction on the basis of the notice of office, I would not have any information which would later prove to be very crucial. I didn't know that. That's what I blame myself for. That's what I'm saying. I blame myself for not realizing that. I have the nature and extent of these announcements... they came orally from the prosecution and from the NCTV, because they also said something about it, but then in the wider context of the media ban and all kinds of other discussions. Furthermore, someone from my department said: yes, there was talk about something... Then I said: I want that sorted out. That's exactly what I promised the Chamber. It was not clear to me at the time who was aware of it either. The only thing I knew then was that I said to Mr. Oskam that my information went so far as to... One of my questions was: were my predecessors informed about this? Then I got the message that my predecessors was just there in the debate also confusion about taking the photo was not informed. That is also clear from the facts. That is something other than that, at least Mr Opstelten, knew that there had been talk of taking a picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u15	I find it a bit tricky, because a prealabel item is given to us, yes or no? It is self-evident that we are going to have a debate on the substance of the matter. We have already asked a great many questions, and this answer once again raises many questions. I'm a little confused. Are we going to continue the debate on this or are we asking the Minister to answer all the questions asked? That seems to me more appropriate than it is now, improvisingly, to mess up the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u16	That's an order proposal. It is difficult for me to intervene simply because I feel that this is the point of the debate. I am always in favour of giving a ruler a chance to answer all the questions that have been asked first. If you are at the microphone with so many people, then... I would just like to make a point of order: do Members wish to continue on this point or do Members really want to answer all the questions they have asked first? The latter is what Mr Segers has proposed. Mr. Oskam, you're at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr President, I am also confused. The minister says he can't give the message because it's unusual. Well, that doesn't seem right, 'cause the Catshuis fire could have done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u18	That's another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u19	Another point, indeed. The point is that the minster actually says "there's really little in it, so yes..."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u20	That is another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u21	I would like to talk about the post, because Mrs Berndsen...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u22	It is now a point of order: are we going to give the Minister the chance to continue answering the questions? Or are you saying that you want to continue with your point first and that, if other people raise something else, so be it. You do not actually agree with Mr Segers. I can see from your gesture that you disagree with this order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u23	My group agrees with Mr Berndsen's point of order. I do not know if that is possible now, but I would like to see a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u24	That was Mr Segers'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u25	On the proposal to move on to the substantive debate, I would like to say that not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u26	I am also eager to ask questions, but I think it would be wiser to do it point-by-point. I think that would be better for the clarity of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u27	If the Minister first answers all the questions about the post, I think we are well on our way. So I would say: first, the part about the post and then the answer to all the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr Oskam's point is that one cannot be separated from the other, but you say that you want to continue with the debate and that you do not therefore agree with Mr Segers' proposal of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u29	I agree, because I would like to see the issue of the post dealt with. Then I think a lot of questions have been answered. Then all the other questions will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr Dijkgraaf, give it a try.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u31	I'm gonna try. Maybe the minister can tell us how much time he needs and if he has blocks. If so, then we can have a more structured debate with each other. If we do not do so and say 'let the Minister speak', then I know: then we will all be back here in one or two minutes for an interruption. Maybe the Minister can make a suggestion. If we know how he organized it, we can wait and see what the minister has essentially for story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u32	I got a set of cubes. The message is not part of that, because the Minister did not even mention it for nothing, even a preamble or something like that. At least he wanted to deal with that point in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u33	I understand Mr Segers' request that we actually enable the Minister to answer all the questions we have put in the debate. I would appreciate those answers, because that is all the excitement. Let us give the Minister an opportunity to reply and then let us discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u34	I would like to leave the direction of the answers to the Minister himself. He's about his own answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u35	I have an order proposal, as you will not be surprised, Mr President. Everyone wants the answers, but this paper is crucial. Mrs Berndsen was right to say: how can we check what is in it? The Minister says that there is really nothing in it and that we do not need to see it. However, we do want to see it. I also see what happens non-verbal. Mrs Berndsen asked that, the Minister wanted to say something about it, regrouped and continued with the formalities. We just want to know what's in it. We're not getting out, because the minister says he doesn't want to give it. You as President are the referee. It concerns Article 68 of the Constitution: the Chamber wants information. You'll just have to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u36	You can screen with all kinds of articles of the Constitution, but ultimately the Chamber deals with this; and by that we mean the majority of the Chamber. That is why I propose this as an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u37	That message of office is crucial. So I'd like it very, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u38	That's clear. I would like to try to draw a conclusion, and that is not easy for me in this, I must admit. This is what I am asking the Minister. Minister, you yourself said that before all the other points you would like to deal with, you would first like to discuss the issue relating to the post. A number of members would like to see their specific questions answered, not in the context of the rest. You chose to take it out of that context. Do you want to limit the answers to these questions to the message of office and explain it later, or say that you will return to it later in your own blocks? In my view, this does justice to what a number of Members have said, namely that they want to ask a question about the post, without the answers raising all kinds of new questions about the content, to which you did not want to come back until later. I can see you looking surprised, Minister. I am trying to make chocolate something complicated, but I think this is what Mr Oskam and others have asked: first we would like to talk to the Minister about why we are not getting that message of office and about what'summer' means. Those are the two questions that the Chamber would like to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u39	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr President, we can do it in such a way that the Minister responds, but I really want to see it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr. Oskam, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u42	That is the right of an individual MP. I hate to play hardball, but I can ask you. You'll have to make a decision in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u43	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u44	I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u45	The Chamber must make a decision in that regard. If that's the question, I'll put it to the Chamber. It can't be, because you have to do it by way of an address to the Chamber. This discussion has been going on for a long time. I also see here the one who is a great instigator of the discussion on Article 68. We are not going to draw any conclusions in that regard. The Chamber asked the Minister for a letter on how to interpret that article. I have had a lot of experts advise me on this, and as I am advised and as the law says, the majority of the Chamber can ask the government to do something by means of a motion. In that sense, the Chamber is the boss and not the President. If you say that you want this message of office now and that you do not want to continue this debate, that is a point of order that I can put and to which the Chamber can respond. Within those frameworks of the law, if you want to play it hard, we can operate. I don't have many more choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u46	Can we suspend the debate for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u47	I think that would be wise if you'd like to have a little chat with each other about this. Then come to me and we'll do it outside the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u48	It was a little complicated. The Minister received an information request from the Chamber at the beginning of the first term. He has chosen to go into that orally. Then there was a debate and one of the Members asked whether it was better to start the debate and leave this point for a moment. Mr Oskam objected. I give Mr Oskam the opportunity to point his question again. What exactly do you want from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Bontes and I would like to have the message on paper. That is my question to the Minister and we will get an answer to it. The spokesmen have agreed that we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u50	Fine. Is the Minister prepared to send the message to the Chamber after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. I don't have that willingness. I firmly believe that the Public Prosecutor's Office can continue to communicate with the Minister in complete freedom and confidentiality by means of the notice of office. The message of office is an essential part of the information, which is ultimately the subject of this debate, between the Minister and the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is no discussion between me and the Public Prosecutor about what is and is not in this post and that something is not in it that should have been in it, which is also recognised by the Public Prosecutor's Office. If I were to put the notice on the record right now, it might help my case on its own. However, it would create the risk that, given the fact that it can be made available to the public, the Public Prosecutor's Office might consider what to say in the context of confidentiality. It is up to me as a minister not to run the risk of this information being subject to such considerations. I am not prepared to give the message of office, also because there is no reason to do so in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you. I will see if Mr Oskam will respond to this, because it was his request. He'll leave it at that. I have a second request for the Minister. Could you mention the blocks in which you are going to answer in advance, so that the Members of Parliament have an idea of the structure of the meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u53	I'd be happy to. This was the first sentence I wanted to say. The following sentence was: after a general introduction I will answer the questions in the following blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u54	If this is the end of the matter, I would like to conclude that there is nothing in that letter of office other than what the Minister has written, namely that he has been informed about the legality of the photograph, yes or no. That's what I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u55	If I say yes or no, it's not complete. I'll try to do it completely. The notice of office of the Public Prosecutor focused on 16 June and 17 June, the day on which the Public Prosecutor's Office was informed of the photograph and the date of publication of the photograph, and the question whether that publication and the notice to the Public Prosecutor's Office led to a violation of the media ban. The public prosecutor's response was that it wasn't a violation of the media ban. On the basis of that statement of office, I wrote my letter to the Chamber and replied to Mr Van Oosten's questions in Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u56	So that's it, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u57	That's it. The Public Prosecutor's Office notes with me that that was not good and that the context, the history should not have been missing in that post. I've asked the D.A.'s office to do that in the future. I am now having this debate on the provision of information by me to the Chamber, partly because the Public Prosecutor's Office did not write to me about this context in the report. I would first like to speak to the Chamber about all the questions that have been asked about the preparation for Question Time. Then I come to my performance during Question Time, to the conclusions and lessons for the future and to the answers to the questions. What did the rulers know at the time? What about the violation of the media ban? Is it or is it not? What did the NCTV know about the photo? Who gave orders where? How'd the interviews go in terms of security and security? Then comes the important block about trust in my department, where trust in me also belongs. Then I come to the question of whether the National Police should be returned to Home Affairs and finally to the questions about Volkert van der G's security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u58	In which block will the improvement measures be addressed? Not only did I, but several colleagues also asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u59	Yes, I will talk about this immediately after I have talked about my performance at Question Time on 22 September. That is a good point from Mr Van Oosten. Mr President, I shall now begin with my general introduction. Volkert van der G. was sentenced to 18 years in prison for the horrific murder of politician Pim Fortuyn. That murder was not only an attack on a person, but also an attack on democracy and our rule of law. On 2 May 2014, he was released on parole. The broadcast of Brandpoint Reporter with recordings of conversations with Volkert van der G. caused a lot of turmoil and questions. In particular, it was asked whether the media ban imposed had been infringed as a result of that broadcast and the facts that became known in it. Last Tuesday the Chamber received a letter from me stating the facts about the period before the conditional release of Van der G., about the days around the making and publishing of the photo, June 16 and 17, and about the period after that. That letter is based on the investigation that I promised the Chamber during Question Time last week. The need for this study was underlined by a publication in the Volkskrant the day after Question Time. In it, Van der G's then lawyer stated that in the months before Van der G's release, there was frequent consultation between him, his officemates, the Public Prosecutor's Office, my department, the state attorney and other public authorities. As my letter shows, that's right. That has rightly raised questions about my actions during Question Time. On Sunday 20 September Volkert van der G. reported in the same broadcast that he had staged a photo on 17 June 2014. That was the photo that was published on 17 June. He also talked, among other things, about his benefit and how he would keep it. Those statements raised many questions, and especially the question whether or not he had broken the media ban by staging that photo. That same question lived with me as a result of that broadcast. That's why I asked the State's Attorney's Office to draft a notice for me as a matter of urgency. I received it on September 22nd. The D.A. concluded in that notice that the publication of a photo by Van der G. was not a violation of the media ban. The preparation of Question Time kept this focus. Everything was focused on the question: did Volkert van der G. or did he not, by staging that photo, violate the media ban? It also focused on whether the Public Prosecutor's Office has reached the correct judgment. That was also because Reclassing had by now informed the Netherlands, in response to that broadcast, that it would be a violation of the media ban. This reaction was withdrawn later. Prior to Question Time, I was also briefed orally, and in the light of this limited focus, that in the phase prior to the publication of the actual photo in De Telegraaf a possibility for a photo had already been discussed. The notice was not supplemented by the Public Prosecutor's Office, even after the prosecution had contacted the lawyer and that lawyer on September 21st and September 22nd, which I know by now that he would appreciate if all the facts would be on the table. In retrospect, both the Public Prosecutor's Office and myself conclude, it would have been better if that had happened. If the Public Prosecutor had therefore completed the notice, I could have informed the Chamber on the basis of that full notice. During Question Time I also stated that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the parole board were aware of the publication of the photo. They were informed on 16 June. Mr Van Oosten then asked me about the media ban. On the basis of the notice of office, I indicated that the Public Prosecutor's Office was aware in advance that the photo would be published. I did not comment on the Public Prosecutor's opinion that there would be no infringement of the media ban, because I had already been informed through the State Secretary and the Public Prosecutor's Office that the probation would still investigate all the statements made by Van der G. in the programme, and whether, in view of all the statements made and the actual conduct of the conditional release, he had complied with the conditions imposed on him. The probation report to the D.A.'s office on that. Now that the investigation has given me a more complete picture of the course of events, I have to conclude that it would have been wiser if I had told the Chamber that I had heard orally in conversations from a number of people that there had been talk of a photo and the possibility of a photo in a preliminary course, on which I had no further knowledge. That would have been the first possibility. I would have taken the risk of saying something to the Chamber that I didn't know anything about, as I wrote in the letter, because the nature and scope of those communications were completely unclear to me. But then I could at least have said to the Chamber: I heard something; I'm going to have it investigated because I don't know what it means, but I do think I should want to know. The second possibility is that I should have said to the Chamber: I cannot answer the questions put to me with certainty, although Mr Van Oosten's questions were answered properly in the letter of office, because I have also heard something that I cannot support or verify. Then I'd better not answer at all and find out more. Those two options were ahead. Neither is ideal. If I had not answered the questions, Mr Van Oosten would have asked me why I am not answering them. I think that question would have been justified. If I had said 'this is the answer to Mr Van Oosten's questions' and if Mr Van Oskam asked me who knew what and what it was then, I would say: yes, I have heard this and this, but I will have it figured out, because I do not know. I probably should have said that sentence. I find it truly incredibly annoying that I did not do that and did not properly assess the nature and scope of that communication. That's an error of assessment of mine. The Chamber knows that I regret this state of affairs. As a result, we are now having a debate on something that I had hoped we would not do because there is something much more important behind this discussion, namely how Mr van der G. deals with the conditions of his conditional release.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u60	The Minister has already gone through Question Time. I am still ahead of it in the preparation for Question Time. At some point the Minister hears that he has to go to Question Time or that he is on the list to go there, and then he thinks: I will inform you. I can't wait to see how that goes. Is that oral? Will the state's attorney's office get a call? Or is a letter or an e-mail sent? Then what does the minister ask the state's attorney's office? What should the D.A. inform him about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u61	The question to the D.A. was to send an urgent notice of office on the reporting of Van der G. In general terms, something is happening, a statement is being made in a programme, and the question arises as to whether this is contrary to the media ban, because that is essential. That's what the D.A.'s been asked to do. There is no extensive consideration of the exegesis of the question. The Public Prosecutor's Office is asked to send a notice of office on the reporting of the violation of the media ban by Van der G.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u62	Does that happen orally or via an e-mail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u63	I don't know, because I didn't do it myself. I gave the order, but I didn't do it myself, so I don't know. I can tell Mr Oskam in the second term exactly how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u64	I am focusing on the whole period for Question Time, the run-up to Question Time. Moreover, there is still a great deal to ask about Question Time itself. We have a meeting between the attorney and people from the ministry and all kinds of services. This runs from January 2014, after which there have been briefings of directors and a photo has been published that has stirred up a lot of dust. We've had a transfer file to the minister. Focal point asks questions in July this year. Hasn't there ever been a time during that entire period that this minister has updated on this history about the contact between the ministry, all the services, the lawyers and Van der G.?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u65	No, in the last six months I have not had any discussions on Mr Van der G. As indicated in the letter, I should have known on 23 July this year that questions were raised by the programme. That information has remained, to my very great regret, at the level where the questions were asked. That information has not been passed on to the administration, either from the Public Prosecutor's Office or from my department, with the result that the administration has never been able to make the decision to inform me and therefore I have not been informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u66	I find it really incomprehensible, insufferable that such a sensitive dossier, which is such an important part of it, does not bring the Minister up to speed. This while the contacts between Focal Point and the Ministry were in full swing and the questions were answered by means of information. But still, when Question Time comes, aren't you gonna call everything and everyone around the table? You're gonna say, "Now I want the bottom rock on top"? Now I need to hear everything that's happened? Then this has to come up, doesn't it? There's no other way, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u67	In a way, that's how it happened. We have already discussed this at the so-called morning meeting on Tuesday morning. Mr Oskam asked whether it had also been discussed in the ministerial staff. It was a coincidence that there was no ministerial staff on Monday, because instead a discussion had taken place in response to the General Political Reviews. I sat with the people at the table on Tuesday morning to prepare Question Time. There was no other subject at the time than the photo of 17 June. In the meantime, I had received the notice of office of the Public Prosecutor, giving a proper answer on the way in which the photograph was handled and when the public prosecutor was informed of it, namely on 16 June, according to the notice of office. I then did not or insufficiently understand the nature and scope of the comments made by a number of people who said: we have talked about a photo in the past, including in the preliminary stage. I see Mr Segers looking at me with a questioning look. That's the same look I had when I got the research report. Firstly, I was wondering why I didn't do that differently and secondly, why the information in this file didn't come up. It is an error of assessment on the part of the official concerned, but the responsibility for it cannot be that we get some sort of billing culture at the level of civil servants, which lies with the administration and ultimately with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u68	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u69	I would like to move on, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u70	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u71	Yeah, but there's a lot of people out there who want to ask questions. If I allow this to happen now, we'll be here until very late tonight. Let's keep going. If your question is still not answered, you can just come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u72	From the facts you can see that sixteen times there has been talk of a photo moment. In this respect, it is incomprehensible that this is not sufficiently understood by this Minister in the preparation of Question Time, given that it is a politically very sensitive issue. Just a little more precise, though. Between the broadcast of Brandpoint Reporter on Sunday evening and Question Time there is quite a while. What has the Minister himself been doing to really call everyone together, drum up and say: people, I want to know the seam of the stocking? It is not yet clear to me what effort the Minister himself has actively made in this regard, given that it was such a politically extremely sensitive issue, which this Minister was aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u73	I just said that. I've called together all the people who were supposed to be there. I said, what's going on? How are we gonna do this? I had received the D.A.'s notice by now. The discussion was about whether there was a violation of the media ban. Everyone involved informed me about this, about the media ban. It was discussed in the discussion that a lot of scenarios, as well as the scenario of taking a picture, had been discussed in the preliminary stage. As I have already said, I have simply failed to assess the nature and scope of these communications. As a result, I did not ask about it myself. However, I did not realize that there was anything to ask, except that I wanted to know exactly what was going on. I then promised that in Question Time, also because it was not clear to me which of my predecessors was aware of at that time, although I knew by now that everyone assumed that they were not aware that that picture would be published on 17 June, as stated in the letter I sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u74	A little more precise, though. This Minister was informed orally and did not appreciate the scope of that communication. We can find anything we want. But what is still lacking in this piece, the preparation for Question Time in which it did not go well, is the lawyer's warning. The lawyer warned the state's attorney that if the whole story didn't come up, he'd make it public himself. That's what happened in the end. The Minister has also reached that communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u76	Did he underestimate the value of this communication too? How exactly did that go? I think that is also an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u77	The President of the College of Attorney General reported in that consultation, in front of him, that... no, he did it afterwards. When we were standing there he reported: by the way, his lawyer is very angry. I have been completely unaware of why that would be the case. As Mr Van Nispen rightly says, I would normally like to know the seam of the stocking. In this case, however, I did not know that the stocking had a seam. That's what I've been blaming myself for. I also regret that I did not think enough at the time: wait, preliminary and photo-scenarios, I need to know that before I go into Question Time. Question Time's approach was still the question of whether the publication of that photograph was a violation of the media ban. That was ultimately the focus. The information provided by the D.A. and the discussion with my officials focused on whether there has been a violation of the media ban. That was the limited focus. That was also the essence of the story in focal point, along with two other points, namely the welfare allowance and the question of whether or not he wanted to have a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u78	Did the minister himself see that broadcast on Sunday night?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u79	No. The Minister was very hard at work at the time. He had two bags full of pieces he had to read. Moreover, the Minister was not aware that the broadcast would come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u80	Then I assume that the Minister was informed about it at the latest on Monday morning. By the way, you would expect a communication department to inform the Minister about that. After all, the Prime Minister also made a rather strong statement on this matter towards Ministers of Justice. So on Monday morning it is known that the broadcast was there. It seems to me that then all the alarm bells go off at the Justice Department, because this is a very fragile file. Even so, the minister won't be updated until Tuesday. What was done all Monday at the Ministry to at least inform the Minister of the progress of the matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u81	The question has just been asked: when did you all come together? The answer to that is Tuesday morning. I am assuming that I have looked at my agenda for a while; I had about fifteen appointments in a row on Monday that I was also working on this in between. I don't remember that, but I'm sure it will. On Tuesday morning we discussed the way in which I would reply in Question Time. In my opinion, I had more than enough information for that at the time. After all, the question that was raised was whether or not Van der G. had violated his media ban with that photograph. The answer according to the D.A.'s office was no. That is the way I went about Question Time. I admit once again that I did not look enough at the stocking to discover the seam in it, which had been communicated to me, albeit for another purpose, namely that it had been discussed in the preliminary stage. I should have concluded at that point: then I want to know the how, what, who and where exactly. Now it also turns out that we only knew exactly after five days. So that wasn't ready in the department either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u82	Before the Minister came to Question Time, he knew that the photo option had been discussed for many months before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u83	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u84	The Minister was aware of this. That's what his letter says. There was direction and the photo option was discussed within his ministry and within the DA's office. The Minister knew that. The Minister also knew that Volkert van der Graaf's former lawyer had been in contact with the prosecution: the truth must come out, there must be good information, or else I will. The Minister knew that before he came to Question Time. The Minister has chosen to say that the Public Prosecutor knew one day in advance that a photograph would be taken. That's not "not knowing exactly the seam of the stocking." That is not a lack of focus either. That's putting the Chamber on the wrong foot. That is incorrect information to the Chamber. That is incomplete information to the Chamber. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u85	First of all, I didn't know about steering committees and all these months. If I had known that, I would have answered the questions differently, as it says in my letter. That goes without saying. What I knew was that the question was: is the media ban broken, yes or no? I knew that there was a notice saying: no, the media ban has not been broken. I had heard verbally that there had been some talk about a photo. I didn't get enough of that. That is what I said in the letter, which says that I should have done otherwise. In future, I will do the same differently if one of these things happens again. So I didn't know what I know now. If I had known what I now know from the investigation, I would of course have answered the questions differently. So does the D.A.'s office. This states that it should have included the context of the history of the post, so that I would have been fully informed about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u86	The minister knew that the photo-option had been the subject of discussion. He got that information from the state's attorney's office before he came to the chamber. That's what the letter said. He also learned from the prosecution that the lawyer was pissed off and had said: if the truth doesn't come on the table, then I'm going to tell it. Then you can't just stand here and say with dry eyes that the D.A. was surprised that it heard a day before a photo was going to be published? That's really, really throwing the Chamber completely on the wrong track. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u87	I understand very well that Mr Bontes says that, because if you put it that way when he says it, I agree with him. But that's not how it happened, of course. Take a look at the facts. The Public Prosecutor was aware of the fact that there was talk of a photo moment, but before 16 June it didn't know that that photo was coming. That is why the Public Prosecutor also told me: we knew on 16 June that the picture was coming on 17 June. That's actually right. What they didn't say in the paper is that they did know that there was a photo opportunity, so the possibility of a photo, that was spoken in the months before. They also acknowledge that that was not good. That should have been written down, and that has not been done. I got myself out of that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u88	The Minister knew!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u89	And I've got myself... I'll repeat it again... not sufficiently realized the nature and scope of the communication I received that a photo had been mentioned in the preliminary journey. That is why I immediately said in Question Time to Mr Oskam's question that I was going to find out, as I had already said, because I wanted to know exactly what was going on, particularly with regard to whether or not the directors were informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u90	The image that emerges here is an image of a huge tunnel vision, in which it was only about the media ban: is there a violation of the media ban? It seems that this has completely lost the part about all the conversations that have taken place. It seems that, for example, the lawyer's signal was therefore also considered less important. I have a question. What exactly was the moment when the Minister knew that it had been discussed for some time? Was that really just last Tuesday morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u91	"For some time now": I've only known that since the report, since my research. Because if I had known that it had been discussed for a very long time, as it turns out, I would have said it differently in Question Time. I knew it had been discussed in the preliminaries, but how many, how many times, how long, in what preliminaries, with whom and where, I didn't know anything about that. Otherwise, I would have answered the questions differently. I did not go to Question Time with the aim of keeping this part out of the picture, as someone suggested. I went to Question Time to give a genuine and correct answer to the question: is there a violation of the media ban or not? Those were the questions that Mr Van Oosten asked me. Mrs Voortman says there's a tunnel vision. I find that annoying, because I have just sent a report to the Chamber stating that that risk still exists in investigations. But indeed, the limited context was the media ban and not the question: how did the photo of Volkert van der G. or the conditional release of Volkert van der G. go? I totally agree with Mrs Voortman. I blame myself for that, too. For the record, I have the final responsibility for this case. When I received the description of what the stocking could have looked like, I should have said: before I go to Question Time, I want to know exactly what the seam is. And I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u92	But what exactly was the moment when the minister realized: hey, there has been talk about this much longer, so not a day before the photo was published; so there has been talk about a photo moment between different organs for a long time. What exactly was that moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u93	That was when I got the result of the investigation and the timeline on my desk for the first time, so a day or a half before I sent the letter to the Chamber. Only then did I know how it really went and how all the information that came together led to the fact that a. the Public Prosecutor's Office had already said much longer ago that it was not a violation of the media ban, b. we could not determine who came up with the idea of the photo but that it was discussed, even with Mr Opstelten, and c. the execution was started but did not stop when the necessity disappeared. That's the whole story, and that's what it says in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u94	So far, I have to be honest, my concerns about the ministry are increasing rather than decreasing. That is because the Minister often says: I should have asked another question. Or: I should have asked. If the full information of both the Minister and the Chamber is dependent on the questions the Minister asks, I am really going to worry. How can it be that, when the minister's predecessors have agreed to inform the minister in good time and in full, a question is asked about the media ban and all other relevant information is apparently omitted in such a statement of office? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u95	It is clear that Mr Dijkgraaf has just a point. That is precisely why the prosecution, together with me, finds that it should have included the context of history in the notice of office. It is indeed acknowledged that, in view of the Minister's information, it was too narrow. I say again that I blame myself...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u96	That...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u97	...that when I was given those signals, I didn't think: but wait a minute, could this be a problem? I just didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u99	Yeah, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u100	But I'm a little less concerned than Mr Dijkgraaf. I'm worried too. This is evident from the measures I am going to take, which I hope I will be able to come up with. I see it didn't happen. I see it didn't happen. And I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that this should have reached my table in the right way, both in the post and in the communications from the side of my department. That goes without saying, otherwise we would not have had this debate, and we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u101	It is tempting to go to the measures already, but we are going to do so in another block. I appeal to this because the Minister said in a subtlety that culture is not an exegesis about the question, but simply answer the question. That might be the big problem. You have to realize there's a lot of things going around when a question is asked. Is that really the culture or is that a false interpretation of what the Minister said?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u102	I would never accuse Mr Dijkgraaf of misinterpreting me. Here's what I said. The question in the media was: has Van der G. staged that photo and thereby violated the media ban? With the wisdom of afterwards, it has not been wise, but I can understand that the Public Prosecutor's Office has understood my question whether it could urgently send me a message of office for Question Time in such a way that it has focused on that media ban. That was what I was doing myself. I was working on that question. I took the pieces. I've reviewed the judge's verdict. It states how these media conditions are formulated. I've also checked whether or not it was a violation. That's what I was doing myself. And I get the message and passerby: but in the last one we talked about a photo. Yeah. If I say it now, with this knowledge here on paper, I also think: yes, how can you... I totally agree with that. But at the moment, when you hear that, you think: it probably isn't relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u103	I'm gonna take the stick one more time about where it just left off. The D.A.'s office has known about the photo for months. Then the lawyer says, "You tell him about those months or I'll do it myself." The Public Prosecutor's Office doesn't then tell it or very briefly to the Minister. Then there are a few options. One, the D.A. doesn't care about the lawyer and makes a fool of him. Two: the Public Prosecutor's Office deliberately sends the Minister to the Chamber with a bomb, because he knows there's a lot of things underneath, but the Minister doesn't know that. Three: the Public Prosecutor's Office is completely naive and I can give it many more qualifications about what is relevant in this house and in the work it does, including for the Minister. Did you have an intrusive conversation with the state's attorney's office? Have any conclusions been drawn? What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u104	All three qualifications do the D.A.'s deficit, I say in all honesty. The D.A. really did what it thought was right at the time. There's no discussion about that. However, we also agree that the context should have been included. We then had a very intrusive discussion, as the letter also states, about how this should be changed in the future. The Public Prosecutor's Office has also announced that it will take measures to this end. I understand that it doesn't have ready-to-use yet. I will inform the Chamber, as I have indicated. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about the progress of the whole project, which I hope to arrive at shortly. I understand very well that this is expected of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u105	So the measures that the prosecution is going to take come together with the whole package? Or can a date be attached to that already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u106	I note that the Oosting Committee will be reporting in December and that there will be a number of pressing recommendations, including on the provision of information within my department. I know that the Oosting Committee is going to do that, because we all know that it did not go well in the case of Cees H. I think it's important that I take the things I know right away. Starting tomorrow, I'm gonna go with the sg and see how we're gonna fix that. In the light of the recommendations of the Oosting Committee, I assume that they will be rather intrusive; then the Chamber will know that I am assuming that I will say that I want to transform them together into a serious set of measures. I hope the Chamber in February on the progress of its implementation will not wait, because we are going to be able to report immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u107	The Minister talks about what he wants to do. The first question that remains to be answered is whether it is this minister who should do so. That's what this is about. It is clear that during Question Time the Minister informed the Chamber incompletely. There is no doubt that we are now having the debate on this. And what does the Minister say? I find that incredibly annoying. No excuse to the Chamber, no mea culpa, nothing at all, it doesn't look like it yet. In fact, my colleagues then ask a lot of legitimate questions. And what does the Minister say? He uses a lot of words, but the essence of it is what I don't know, I don't know, so I can't report it to the Chamber either. That's exactly what this is all about. So it seems as if: the less I know, the less I can do wrong. That's exactly the way we shouldn't go. Is the Minister still going to apologize to the Chamber and improve his life? I asked him that two weeks ago, or is it just a lot of words in the hope that this minister will be able to improve everything and check with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u108	Let me start by replying to Mrs Helder's question or to me: the less I know, the better it is, because then I will have to give as little information as possible to the Chamber. Mrs. Helder knows me longer than she does today. That's not my angle. Moreover, state law would also be completely incorrect. In addition, Mrs Helder asks me to apologize to the Chamber. I wrote in my letter that I fully informed the Chamber on the basis of the information I had at my disposal. I also write in that letter that I have not sufficiently realised that I had information in any form or....................................................................................................................................................................................... I have further written that I regret this. Mrs Helder may see this as an excuse to the Chamber, because I am well aware that if I had done it differently, if I had otherwise informed the Chamber or not informed it of all the misery that had flowed from it, which would perhaps have been a wise idea, the Chamber would not have appreciated it either. That is quite right, but I could have prevented myself from entering this debate. As a minister, I have one objective, namely to inform the Chamber fully and in good time and to make sure that we make the Netherlands safer together with the Chamber. That's how I see my assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u109	That is not just an objective that the Minister must have, that is his legal duty. In fact, it's his constitutional duty. This is now being ignored very easily. It can be said in a nine-page letter that the Minister regrets this, but there are many people watching and many people are rightly angry. Many news stories are devoted to this and many will probably follow. This cannot be done with a lot of words here and the remark: incredibly annoying that we should have this debate. You can't take this off by writing that you regret this. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister may go through the dust a little more. Not because I like to see the Minister go through the dust, but because I sincerely want to be convinced that this will not happen again and that the Minister will ensure that it does not happen again. I'm not convinced yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u110	I can only repeat what I have already said before the Acts. If Mrs Helder appreciates that I apologize to the Chamber on this point for causing this misunderstanding, then I do, because I am entirely responsible for it, and I am fully aware of that. I cannot go deeper than that towards Mrs Helder. I seriously believe that there has now been a situation in which the Chamber has rightly asked questions about trust in my ministry and confidence in me. The latter is obvious, because I am the "boss" there. This is an incredibly horrible issue for me. I see tens of thousands of people working with heart and soul day in and day out for the safety of our society. Partly because of my error of assessment, this discussion has arisen and concerns have arisen about the quality of my ministry. I hate that. I have already said that the lack of clarity I have created is the result of an error of assessment. I should have done it differently. I regret this. I'd like to apologize to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u111	This is an important moment, because this does indeed touch on the trust between the Chamber and the Cabinet, on the trust between the Chamber and the governors. After all, you should always be able to assume that the information you get is right and that you get everything there is. The more difficult it is to imagine that a year and a half to a high level there has been talk about the moment of photography and the contacts between lawyers and various services, and that the Minister does not hear about it until Tuesday morning and that he does not appreciate it. Then he'll be here and he'll answer the questions of the Chamber. He says the D.A. knew about it a day before and it didn't know there was a deal with De Telegraaf. The rulers have not been informed. These are all things that don't add up. The civil servants sitting in the back of the room have to shrink, don't they? The officials who are listening to that must think: what do we get now? And then the minister says he didn't realize it was true until he got the facts report when he had the investigation done. Then after that, things went terribly wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u112	I cannot look into the psyche of officials, but Mr Segers can rest assured that the administration has taken this issue very seriously. This issue is also taken very seriously, because everyone in the capillaries of my ministry realizes that this is not possible. We should not want to have this discussion. We can and can be expected to always inform everyone correctly and fully, not only the administration, but also the minister, and that the Minister fully informs the Chamber. That's essential. Everyone realizes that. By the way, I note that the Public Prosecutor's Office was not aware of that photo in De Telegraaf. That is simply a fact, as I said in Question Time. The announcement that there would be a photo was not mentioned, but it was known that the photo would come. Indeed, the rulers were not aware. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u113	The latter is not correct, because Minister Opstelten knew that a photo deal had been discussed. The Minister says: I assume that rulers were not aware of this; I assume that the prosecution has only been informed a day in advance. Those are obvious falsehoods. The Minister should have known that. He's coming up with a general story that he assumes everyone is doing their best to inform him properly. If obvious falsehoods are being debated here, people have to shrink and say: oh, boys, something has gone terribly wrong; we are going to correct this immediately? At the end of Question Time, all the alarm bells must go off again. They should have gone off before that, but then again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u114	They are. Just for the sake of clarity, because this really needs to be corrected: the two rulers were not informed on 16 June that there would be a photo. That is what I said in Question Time, and that is a fact. That's true. I didn't say anything else about that. That's right. In addition, Mr Segers is right, but I did not know at the time that at least Mr Opstelten was involved in and aware of that preliminary journey, in the months before, in which the option of a photo was discussed. They were not informed about the photo, as I told the Chamber. That's what's left of it. At the same time, Mr Segers is right: it is clear from this study that a lot of parties have spoken in advance about the possibility of a photograph.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u115	I took a moment when I heard a phrase that the Minister spoke out in the direction of Mr Recourt, when it was about the message of office. What I was referring to was that the Minister indicated that he was equally sincere in his view that the Public Prosecutor had done what it should have done, at the moment when it apparently informed the Minister via that letter of office as it informed him. Well, I guess I'm just wondering if that's too sweet. As MPs, one of whom I am, we find that the information given in response to my questions on parts at least had a different nuance, as it turned out the next day. I would like to see the public prosecutor and the department send a very strong signal that this is simply not possible, because it does not allow us to do our job properly. The Minister will not be able to inform us in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr Van Oosten is quite right. I'm not nice about what happened here. I'm not nice about the state of affairs either. Nor do I like the shortcomings identified in the investigation in relation to the provision of information and a number of other errors within my department. I have spoken very deeply with the Public Prosecutor, as I wrote in the letter. I found that there was not enough context in the post, with the wisdom afterwards, but that is, of course, that you only have it afterwards. I have agreed with the D.A. that things will be different in the future and that measures will be taken. I will inform the Chamber about these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u117	I would be pleased to hear in this debate today what measures the Minister is thinking of and what period they will be linked back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u118	Of course. I haven't gotten to that yet, but I will. As an advance, I have always watched over it, even now, to say that I am going to take all kinds of measures. At least I'm going to take these measures. There are a lot of things I'm going to do and a lot of things I've done a long time ago. I'll explain in a minute. In addition, the Oosting Committee will also be here. I also want to make sure that we can implement the recommendations of the Oosting Committee in a good way, so it is a two-stage rocket. Things have to happen now. As of last Tuesday, that's already happening. Before that, I had already started a trajectory. I'll explain in a moment what that is. The Oosting Committee is also involved in this, because I assume that it will also come up with compelling recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u119	One of the things I can get out of it is that the minister says he went to the D.A. with a limited focus and that he got a limited focus back from the D.A. That makes sense, if you ask me. But I just don't get it. The minister says he had 15 appointments on that Tuesday. One of them was with his staff, to prepare those questions. How long does a conversation like that take and who's in there? Are they not heavyweights who say: it is not just about whether Volkert should go back to prison and whether the media moment is a violation of the conditions? There's got to be someone here who says there's a lot more to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u120	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. It's also in the letter. That communication was also made in those conversations, some in the morning and one later. I simply did not assess that communication sufficiently, as I indicated in the letter. And I blame myself for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u121	But is that a five-minute conversation or is that a half-hour conversation? Are there any DGs in there? Who's in there? Take us with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u122	That includes the DGs, the President of the College of Attorneys General of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the people of the DG departments who are talking about it. The people who went over it at the time were all there and they also called for attention to be paid to that lead route, but in such a way that it did not become clear to me that I would take that into account in answering the questions, which I should have done afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u123	Actually, it's strange, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u124	Yeah, but the letter doesn't say anything that I don't find strange. I think it should have happened. That's what it says. The realization within my department is, of course, also fully understood that this is no longer possible in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u125	Before Question Time, the Minister was informed, among other things, of the fact that the lawyer had given a signal. I asked just now what the Minister did with it, to which he replied: I also did not know why the lawyer was angry or what he threatened with. Then we have Question Time and then things go wrong there. The Court is therefore misinformed and incompletely informed. Anyone who was in those 16 interviews that dealt with the photo moment will see: that is not going well in Question Time. My question follows on from Mr Segers' question: when is the time when the Minister realises that he has not properly informed the Chamber and that he therefore has some explaining to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u126	I would just like to clarify the subject of Question Time. I then had an exchange of views with Mr Oskam on the question of who knew what. Mr Oskam said: I would like to have a factual account. At that time, I said semi-funny that I would never mention anything a fact story because it resulted in a cove of misery; I had a fairly prophetic impact at the time. Then, the next morning, we immediately started the so-called crisis table and immediately all those organisations involved started working to get all the information out of the table. The moment I got the first result of that search, after I was informed in the meantime about what we already knew and whether we had all the contacts and pieces inside, I started to read the facts and I found that, in view of the communications I received about the preliminaries, it was quite crucial and much more extensive, with everything exchanged between all kinds of parties I didn't know about. I could go to your room and do two things. Or I shouldn't have said anything at the risk of the Chamber blaming me for not informing her completely. I would not inform the Chamber on the basis of the notice of office because I would think that the message might have been incorrect or at least not complete. Moreover, I insist that I have informed the Chamber correctly, but certainly not about the context, which should have been. Or I should have made the rather vague announcement: I'll tell you for the record that I heard this, I don't know what it is, I'll have it figured out and you'll hear from me. Those were my two options. There was nothing else I could do, because at that time I simply did not have any factual information so that I could have said to the Chamber: that is how it is. If I had, I would have said it wrong, because I didn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u127	Now it's gone wrong in this case, too. The Minister says that the next morning we sat down together and then we talked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u128	Now that you mention it, I think it was the same afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u129	Mr van Nispen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u130	This is an important moment: the same afternoon or the next morning. The next morning there will be a big interview with lawyer Franken in de Volkskrant and he will explain exactly how it went. So this is an important point for me. Did the Minister intend, even without the story of the lawyer who had already threatened it, to bring out the whole story? Had the Minister also informed the Chamber without the interview of the lawyer in the Volkskrant in the sense of; I did this wrong, I misinformed the Chamber and incompletely informed it, and here you have the whole story and here is the complete truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u131	Certainly, because in response to Mr Oskam's question who knew about it, what the Public Prosecutor knew about that photo and what the directors knew about it, I told him that I had asked myself the same question and that I was going to find out. That's exactly what I did. That was also the assignment Tuesday afternoon to my organization to do so. The next morning, Mr. Franken came up with his story. I would like to point out that, when the letter was drawn up, we then developed very closely with Mr Franken and that he can also fully recognise himself in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u132	It's hard to understand. There's a broadcast on Sunday night. It's about a very sensitive file. On Monday, the Minister has a busy agenda to discuss. That doesn't assume much urgency. On Tuesday, the Minister receives a letter of office from the Public Prosecutor's Office, which also mentions the lawyer's actions towards the Ministry, stating that he would come out with messages. The Minister also says that he has been briefed with a focus on whether or not it was a media intervention. But he was informed by several people on Tuesday. He was brief but informed by several people. Furthermore, there was that notice from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Yeah, what's short, anyway? It is amazing that nothing happens on such a dossier for a whole Monday and that no alarm bells have started ringing in the run-up to Question Time on Tuesday. It was a series of questions from a member of the minister's party, so he should have known that this would come up, I think. I think it's hard to understand!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u133	I share Mrs Berndsen's surprise. Of course, that's exactly my position, especially after the investigation. When I present the investigation to the Chamber, I find that everything has happened, over a long period of time and up to the highest level, which I think we should have known at that time. There is no doubt about that. That is precisely why it says what it says, including the measures I take. Of course, it was discussed on Monday. That is what I said to Mrs Berndsen. Of course, those questions are being prepared. That's always the way it is. I talked about it on Monday. Here and there I have received announcements in the vein of "in a preliminary journey we have spoken about a photo". It went down those lines. Again, I have not sufficiently assessed the nature and scope of those communications. That didn't ring a bell with me. The question that was raised was: is there a violation of a media ban? That question in itself was not so complicated, because the Public Prosecutor's Office had already informed me that it was not in his opinion. As a result of that broadcast, I had many more questions about the conditions in the broad sense. That is why we asked the parole board to investigate this. The D.A. was gonna test that. That's why I knew by now that I couldn't go into that, because I found and still think that I can't get in the way of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think Mrs Berndsen agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u134	Almost four bits of facts! It is right for the Minister to say that this is a source of misery. Of course it is. If you see how much energy has been put into it as part of Mr Van der G's provisional release, then as a simple MP you really cannot understand that the ministry has been so laconically involved. Well, that's actually my conclusion. After all, if you have any political awareness, some political sensitivity, then you know that such a question is not limited to what the questioner raises, but that there can be follow-up questions that can be much wider. I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u135	I really don't recognize the word "laconic." That is certainly not a good description of the atmosphere within the department at the moment as a result of this affair. If you look at the various parts that are described in the letter, where things are really going wrong, July 23rd, the questions of Brandpoint Reporter about which no link is taking place, then Mrs Berndsen is absolutely right. There is a lack of political sensitivity. Once again, I am not blaming the individual official, because it is ultimately the responsibility of the administration that the officials are aware of that. In this direction, my solutions also go in that direction. I really think that we should make a move in that and make a move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u136	The Minister states that he sat around the table with his summit on Tuesday morning, with his dg's and with the top of the state's attorney's office. How long did this meeting last, that Tuesday morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u137	I don't know exactly. This is, of course, not the only file that is important in my ministry one day, even though this dossier is an important one, but it may not have been sufficiently assessed. We discussed this with the people at half an hour and then, after I returned from the ministerial committees that are always there on Tuesday, we also prepared actual Question Time here in the Chamber. I also spoke to people on Monday on a number of points on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u138	To sum up, the Minister had hours of consultation. Tuesday morning alone on that subject for half an hour, then apparently still discussing it here and then he also had discussions on Monday. Then it is really impossible for me to understand that the Minister is coming to the Chamber with the answer: the Public Prosecutor was informed the day before that a picture would appear in the newspaper. I really can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u139	I understand Mr Bontes' incomprehension. I also think that is clearly addressed in my letter. For the rest, I have already answered this question twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u140	In addition to Mr Bontes' questions. On that Tuesday there are the pg, the prosecutor's office, the dg's and others involved. How many people were there together now? I thought these were the people who knew everything exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u141	How many people exactly I can't remember, because after that we talked about this every day, several times a day, including on weekends. So I can't remember exactly how it went that morning. What I know for sure is that the information was given to me as I wrote in the letter, the notice of office of the Public Prosecutor, subsequently established with insufficient context, and the oral explanation, in which it was also said that there might be a history of taking the photo. That's the information I have. It is also not very important, I say in Mr Krol's direction, how many people have talked about it when, where and for how long. The fact is that I've heard that there was a preliminary course, that it wasn't in the notice of office, and that the Public Prosecutor's Office didn't supplement or amend the notice of office as a result of the lawyer's observations, even though it could have. I have not sufficiently assessed the scope of those communications and, therefore, the statement that the lawyer was angry has given me no reason to think that I should do anything else, also because I knew that I could give a proper answer to the questions raised in relation to the media ban on the basis of the post given to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u142	So I understand that when no one called the doorbell?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u143	No. It was said to me that there was a history in which there was talk of a possible photo. That's just a fact. I wrote that in the letter, because it should have given me reason to say: but wait a minute, that might be very relevant, then I want to know what is going on. I didn't say that at the time. That is why I have indicated to your Chamber that I very much regret this, because that has led to this misunderstanding. I find that incredibly annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u144	Can the Minister state exactly what he knew about the phase, prior to taking a photo, of the history in which he was briefly informed orally? What did he know when he got here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u145	I knew I could assume that the directors were not informed about taking the picture on 16 June. I checked it out, and it turned out to be. And I knew that there was talk of taking a picture in the preliminaries. But how, when, how long, with whom, what, in what intensity, whether or not with the lawyers or with the D.A. or alone in my department, all those things that we now know from the facts, I didn't know. That also explains why I did the answer as I did, because otherwise, as I wrote in the letter, I would have done it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u146	You got the information from the D.A., who made the arrangements, you knew about the lawyer's signal, which you wrote in the letter: I've been informed about the lawyer's signal. What was that signal? Come with the whole story, or I'll go to the media. So the minister knew more. What exactly did he know about the agreements that were made between the D.A., between all those services, and the lawyer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u147	I didn't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u148	So what is the history, the stage prior to taking the picture that the Minister was informed about? What exactly was he told?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u149	That a lot of scenarios had been discussed in the preliminary stage, including possibly taking a photo because of that security discussion. That's what I knew. The D.A. told me the lawyer was angry. I believe that the literal text was: no stupidity should be played. I didn't draw any conclusions from that. That is exactly why I said in my letter that if I had thought enough about it, I would have done it differently. I would have informed the Chamber in another way to prevent me from getting into the misunderstanding of which I am now the cause. I'm not gonna put that under seats or couches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u150	In the first term, I asked a question about a gap in the timeline. On 17 June last year the photo was published in De Telegraaf. The Minister and Secretary of State at the time were not pleasantly surprised. When focal point asked for comment a month later, July 21, the bells started ringing. What happened in the meantime? How come nothing happened between June 17th and July 21st on such a heavy subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u151	A lot of things didn't happen, because nothing happened. Around Mr. Van der G's conditional release nothing went wrong. He's on parole. A picture has been published. Then there was regular probation supervision. Then there was no reason or reason to discuss the subject of Van der G until that 21st July. I admit, moreover, that it is also stated in the letter "Just as soon as Brand Point Reporter asks a question about Van der G. the administration should have been informed about it. Then the administration should have informed me of that. Then I could have said at that point: what is going on here? How'd it go? What's the status? I could have sent a letter to the Chamber on Monday that it's in good shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u152	Monitoring is external, but I am referring to the internal procedure. I see it as follows: Minister Opstelten opens the newspaper and scares. He thinks, "What is this?" I've been told there's an option, but now I see that picture. I can then imagine that you would ask how this could be done within the organisation and that this steering committee would then be involved. And we don't read about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u153	That's right, because that steering group was gone. That Steering Committee operated until 15 May 2014. That was the moment when everything was running smoothly, when the case was as it was. That picture's been published. I also wondered what my reaction was at the time. 'Cause I was in the couchs. Did I ask Chamber questions? No. Did anyone else ask Parliament questions about it? Not as far as I know. There's been no debate, no discussion, nothing at all. In the meantime, we have found that the NCTV and the Public Prosecutor's Office were thinking: huh, where did that picture suddenly come from? That is what we have established. Everyone thought that option was off the table by now. This does not apply to those security guards who had been ordered to make it possible at an earlier stage. Nor for the lawyers, who, in all conscience, knew no better than that it was a common concept of the government and the lawyers in the interests of the security of Van der G. After that, there was no reason to take direction or direction or whatever. I have found that in a case like this, the direction has not been sufficient. Two organizations no longer operated with each other, but after each other. That's part of the system. I have also found that things have to be different, and that is going to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u154	That MPs didn't ask questions about that picture, I get it, because they didn't know what the whole story was. I would like to return to Mr Segers' interruption. He brought up the lawyer's signal. According to the facts, he asked for the correct and complete information to be made public, otherwise he would have to seek publicity. The Minister states that he understands from the D.A.'s office that, by the way, the lawyer is angry. Wasn't that a reason for him to ask why that lawyer was so angry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u155	The answer to that is, of course, no. I wish it were, because then I could have asked that question again. I might have been able to hear a little more about the context by now, and I would not have created this problem. Of course, I think I should have, but I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u156	But isn't that because the focus was on what Volkert van der G. did wrong or would have done with that media ban instead of the role of all these different organs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u157	Yeah, that's my statement. Everyone was at that time working on the subject of the questions and the fuss in the media, namely whether or not Van der G had broken the media ban. That was the context in which everyone sat. If Mrs Voortman calls that a tunnel vision, I agree. That was indeed the case, because it was because of this situation that the communication on the preliminary route did not ring enough bells that it should have been otherwise. I say again that I would have liked it to be different. There's no discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u158	The Minister states that the MPs didn't respond when that picture was in the newspaper. Crazy is that! That picture was staged. If only I had known, because I was deceived then, just as the Dutch people were deceived. Does the Minister think this is possible? Has it been taken into account in the decision-making that this has led to a massive mistake between the people, the MPs and the journalists of De Telegraaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u159	That's a lot of questions. The fact that a photograph was published was a matter for me, and I was then able to raise the question as to whether it was in any way a violation of the media ban. Because that could have happened. I didn't ask myself, and I didn't ask that question. My research has shown that it was felt that it was in the interests of the situation at the time. I didn't have any involvement in that, and I haven't been involved. I do remember that a price was put on Mr Van der G's head in the picture. If I remember correctly, someone said they would pay €25,000 for a picture of Van der G. I think I remember that and I'm not sure if it's a fact. So I say it very carefully, because I do not want to provoke another debate. I can imagine that in that discussion and in the context of that time I know very little about it, because at that time I had a very different position as a Member of Parliament who discussed this option. I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u160	How could I think, when I saw that picture, that there might be a violation of the media ban? As a citizen and as a Member of Parliament, I thought: this is an accidental photograph. However, that picture was staged by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u161	Well, it's not like that. Indeed, we have already established that both directors have never ordered the photograph to be taken. I can see why security at that time thought it was a good idea somewhere in the process. I get that. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions to answer on a number of issues, but I would like to go to the conclusions first. I found that at the conditional release stage a high administrative steering committee had been set up to direct the leave and preparation for the conditional release of Van der G. All the relevant bodies were represented in that steering group. The then directors were kept informed of the information from the steering committee by means of oral briefings, which were so confidential that no reports were made. Following the conditional release of Volkert van der G. on 2 May 2014, that steering committee was dissolved on 15 May 2014 and no other facility was set up in which the relevant bodies were represented. The investigation shows that the NCTV considered it desirable to publish a photo of Van der G. for security reasons. The NCTV then asked the Security and Security Service to make it possible to take a photo. From the first week of June 2014, the NCTV found such a photo no longer necessary due to a number of developments and the NCTV did not inform the GDP, nor the probation, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the then lawyer of Van der G. The D.A. ruled prior to the conditional release that publication of a photo would not constitute a violation of the media ban. The Public Prosecutor's Office confirmed this several times afterwards to Van der G's then lawyer and the NCTV and the parole board were also informed. At the moment, the probation is conducting an investigation into this entire conditional release, and I will inform the Chamber about that. I expect this will be mid-October. What lessons do I draw for the future? On the first day, I was confronted with the arrival of a new interim secretary-general. We sat together on that Monday, the first official day, to arrive at a strategic agenda for our department. This agenda focuses on a number of questions: what are our future societal challenges and tasks and how can cooperation within and outside the department be aimed at improving content and restoring trust? That was the task I gave to the Secretary-General at the time on the first day of my presidency. I did so because I did not miss the fact that the discussion surrounding the resignation of both predecessors already raised the question of how information is shared and how cooperation is carried out within the department. Over the next few weeks, I have had individual discussions with all the Directors-General and a number of directors: what is not going well, where are our points of improvement, how can we improve our department further? The current Secretary-General has taken charge of that process and has already organised a number of sessions in that framework, all before this took place. I started improving measures immediately after I took office. I also instructed the Oosting Committee to look very widely at this issue, knowing that there will be points from which my department and I will have to learn. I am well aware that my ministry has a crucial and important task in society. I would like to point out here that tens of thousands of people with heart and soul work day in and day out for a safe society. A lot of what these people do is excellent. I have heard many Members of Parliament rightly make critical remarks during the first term, but we must not forget that there is a great deal going on day in, day out. This is without prejudice to the fact that a lot of things have not gone well, as we know from this study and what I expect to hear from the Oosting Committee. It is my job as a minister to ensure that all those officials, all those people under my responsibility, can carry out their work properly within the rules of our democratic rule of law and that they can achieve the results agreed with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u162	The Minister will have his Secretary-General investigate. I assume, by the way, that the Minister is at the top of that investigation. Does the Minister exclude that this could lead to human consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u163	If you're a minister in charge of a department like Security and Justice, you can never rule out the need to draw human consequences if you need to. If that's what it takes, so will I.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u164	The Minister is at the top of the Secretary-General's investigation; I can't hear him deny it. If that study showed that it was necessary, would it not be wise for these measures to be taken at a certain pace and not only when the Oosting Committee comes up with its findings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u165	If the investigation showed that it was necessary, I will. There's no point not doing that, stretching or anything. I then, of course, look at the overall performance of an individual and come to conclusions not only on the basis of an incident. I think you should expect a minister not to take incident policy, but to support a well-considered personnel policy within the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u166	I'm not at all reassured by this. The Minister discusses the lessons to be drawn from this and the conclusions. He's trying to refute the image that nothing has happened in the last six months. On the contrary, the Minister says that immediately after he took office he called for cooperation and information sharing to be promoted. Nevertheless, it has gone terribly wrong. Today we also see that something goes wrong in communication. It is a small but not insignificant example. I'm referring to the outgoing chief of police, who must contradict what the minister said about retirement. I wonder what this means. The Minister says that right after he took office he insisted that the information be shared better, that communication be improved and so on. We see how terrible things are going wrong during Question Time. Today we see another example of it and there are others. What does that say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u167	That says that, of course, it can never be excluded that mistakes are made in an organisation such as a department. Mistakes will continue to be made. I'm not gonna guarantee that a mistake will never be made again. We are talking about an organization where tens of thousands of people work hard day in, day out. They make a mistake every day, every once in a while. It is important that we learn from these mistakes and that we ensure that the mistakes that have been made are no longer made. On this particular example, I would like to say the following. From my first day at the Ministry, I said that we really have to work hard on this, knowing what happened around the East Commission. This committee is, by the way, about a different matter from what we are talking about today, but there is a similar problem. In this way, I will come up with more concrete points that we have been working on. However, I also think it is very important that my sg, which is only working today on day 105, should be given the opportunity to take the measures he considers necessary from his own responsibility. He is directly responsible for the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u168	Of course it is, but the Ministry is not a school. It shouldn't be, because it's too important for that. The Minister must be in charge of this ministry. We're gonna have to put that first here. However, I have another question. What's the lesson the minister is taking personally from this? The lessons that the Ministry must draw from this are of course very important, but what is the personal lesson for the Minister? How will he prepare for Question Time from now on? That's what I'm missing in his story. I said, "Was it a bravado?" Did he think I'd get away with it? Was it nonchalance? What's it something else? How is the Minister going to do this differently from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u169	I have already said that I fully informed the Chamber at that time. I had a notice from the state's attorney's office. That is what I have literally based my contribution on. This is what I'm blaming myself for. If there are signs coming that I can't tell at the time, I have to wonder if it's signals I don't have to point out, or if it's signals that make the alarm bells ring. I have not done enough, and that is my lesson from this for the future. That lesson is firm, because I have learned it in a compelling way, also today thanks to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u170	The Minister appears to be a slowly well-functioning governor. He cites the highest boss of the ministry who has been in office for 105 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr Dijkgraaf is talking about my sg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u172	Yes. Can the Minister give us an idea of what exactly is going to happen? He doesn't have to go into details, but I might be looking for the heaviness. I believe that we are looking for an answer to the next question. Is there either going to change a doll here and there or come up with a new game rule, or is the broom really going through the ministry? I'm a supporter of the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u173	As far as I'm concerned, it's not certain the broom has to go through the Ministry. I also see that the ministry is working incredibly hard and well. A lot of people put their whole souls and salvation into doing very good things. However, I note that there are a number of problems in this dossier. I refer to the extent to which the administration is informed, to the extent to which the administration informs the minister and to the extent to which the political sensitivity of the whole organisation leads the minister to know what he needs to know. Furthermore, we have to look back at what happened in June 2014. Then two columns operated side by side, namely the NCTV and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and on the other hand, as executive, the Guarding and Security Service. Those two columns have not communicated sufficiently with each other. The GDP cannot and usually should not communicate to a large extent, but the other two organisations do. That's where my primary task lies, and that's what the letter says. I have to make sure that these problems are resolved immediately. Furthermore, I have listened very carefully to the Chamber. I have heard that serious questions are asked in the Chamber about trust in my department. So it is up to me to do everything I have to do and what it takes to restore that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u174	That is why I was somewhat disappointed in that letter. At the end there is actually only one sentence. It says: I have given the order that I should be properly informed. I do not read about very specific measures. Is something really gonna change? When I say that the broom has to go through the Ministry, that doesn't mean that I think that all kinds of people need to be wiped away. I also know that there are people there who work very hard and are very motivated. "The broom by the ministry" can also indicate procedures or the question of how you deal with each other. I would like to taste from the Minister that he is going to speed it up and put his strength behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u175	That's exactly what it is. I cannot afford not to rush it, because the Chamber is following me and I am following my department. I listened very carefully to the Chamber. I hear the feelings that live in the Chamber, which are fueled by the past and the events around Cees H., which are fueled by the resignation of the predecessors and which are rightly fed by the report that is on the table here. I fully realize that I cannot get to the Chamber with: we have a bit of this and we have a bit of that, and that was it. At the same time, I would not have the certainty that I am not standing here again with the same thing. If the Chamber is trying to live in what it is like for me to stand here, it can imagine that I would have liked to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u176	It is, of course, nice that the new Secretary-General is doing research into the sore points in the organisation. There is also the investigation of the Oosting Committee. The Minister himself mentioned it for a while. The Chamber knows that the report is ready and that it's in the Ministry's office. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to send that report to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u177	I missed it for a while. What report does Mr. Oskam mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u178	The report from the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u179	The Oosting Committee is about their own report. That is a completely independent committee. I'm not aware that that report would be ready. It's possible. Mr Oosting and his committee are concerned with the publication of their own report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u180	But do you have it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u181	I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u182	There is a slight bewilderment here on this side about how it is possible that everything has gone as it has. We have about one and a half men support per MP and the ministry is heavily rigged. This minister says his antenna wasn't adequately tuned. This also applies to his predecessors. We have also had to deal with the difference between Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven: one says he remembers something and the other says he doesn't. But it also applies, of course, to the political sensitivity of all those officials around it. They need to know that it's about Van der G and that the minister has to go to the Chamber. What is the Minister going to do to further develop this political sensitivity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u183	The only thing you can do about this is to make sure that political sensitivity is brought to our attention once again and that we really talk about how it can be that within organizations such as the State's Attorney's Office and the probation in this question of Brand Point Reporter no alarm bells go off? And that no alarm bells go off when there's a press release submitted to my department? That needs to be discussed, and what we can do about it must result from it. One thing is certain: one can expect in a department that political sensitivity at the top and in the minister and secretary of state is better developed than in the foundation of the department. But this shows once again that without political sensitivity you cannot do your job in a department like ours properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u184	We have already referred to the poor communication in the case of Cees H. and the Bart van U. Looks like a pattern. The Minister won't be here again in a few months' time in the same situation. That desire is also present on this side. At the same time, the question is how to prevent it. What is the Minister's warning to the people directly around him in order to prevent another debate on such an incident?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u185	I can't avoid making mistakes. I say in all honesty: in an organization like my department with so many people, mistakes will always be made. But the question arises: what mistakes? And do you learn from those mistakes? If it is not possible to learn from these mistakes in this report, then I do not accept it. And I don't accept it either. That's the message I'm carrying. I'm going to go back to the conclusions. We all realize within Security and Justice that we are now at the centre of attention, and that there is doubt about the functioning of our department. It is a task for me and my associates to restore confidence and prove that we are able to fulfil our social task. We are always responsible for this. We do this in constructive cooperation with others, both inside and outside the government. I note that errors of assessment have been made in the direction, action of the NCTV and the provision of information to the governing bodies concerned. I have called on my official summit and the Public Prosecutor's Office to improve the provision of information. However, I not only judge this incident, but also look at the background, context and performance of the organisation, both individually and collectively. For the future, I demand more clarity and alertness. As I said to Mr Segers, I do not accept another attitude. In the Van der G case, sensitive information has been limited to the wrong level several times. It is the responsibility of the administration to escalate in good time. Action must therefore be taken immediately, as I said to Mr Segers. I have instructed the Secretary-General to identify ways to better monitor management, coordination and information sharing in sensitive matters. Action is needed in the short term, but we also need to achieve a sustainable change in the way the department operates in the longer term. I do not want to give the impression here that I am taking a number of short-term measures in the hope that this will weaken the debate. I realise that this research, but certainly also the results of the Oosting Committee, will lead to the long-term need for a project to implement behavioural change sustainably. I will address my entire department next Monday to make it clear that we must do everything we can to avoid repeating this kind of fact. The management of my department has a very important role to play in this. That has a great responsibility. If there are thresholds in the exchange of information, we must settle them with man and power, not only within the parts, but also between the parts of my department and the various services. That is also why I held a meeting with the top 120 of my department this month, with this subject being specifically and emphatically discussed. I fully understand the urgency which the Chamber feels to make concrete improvements as soon as possible. I have instructed the Secretary-General to ensure that the NCTV takes steps to avoid any errors of assessment that have been made in this case. I've instructed him to improve communication and cooperation between the NCTV and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have called on the Public Prosecutor's Office to ensure that official messages should not be produced briefly and with a limited focus. The relevant context should no longer be lacking in such official messages. The D.A. has confirmed to me that it will take those measures. I'll inform the Chamber about these measures. I have promised to inform the Chamber, in connection with the report of the Oosting Committee before 1 February 2016, so that I can take the results of that committee with me. In that context, I will not inform her about the measures I will take, but about the progress made. As of today, I have been working on these measures since Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u186	The Minister lists a number of improvements. I hope he is not going to do so in the same way as his predecessor, which is to blow a whistle in his mouth and think that everyone is going the other way. I can assure the Minister that at least this is not going to work. I would like to ask the Minister again how he looks at that huge department, which is apparently going to march the other way now, and whether it is not desirable to just let Justice be Justice again and to put Security with the mother department that it once was, namely Home Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u187	That was one of the individual questions I would like to answer because several Members have asked. I can now bring forward the answer to that. First of all, it is not my intention to let the department march the other way with a whistle. I think a lot of people should just keep marching in the direction they do. That direction's good. They do so on the basis of agreements I have made with the Chamber or with local authority in the context of, for example, the security agenda. There is no doubt that they are doing so in the right direction. So there is no need for all kinds of people to do other things. Although so much is going well, we have to note at the same time that things have not gone well on a number of crucial points. It is my job to make sure that I do not let everyone march differently with that whistle, but this aspect. I will therefore take the report of the Oosting Committee with me. I've been in the department's capillaries for six months. For my part, I see how important it is for the National Police to be part of this organization. I know Mrs Berndsen doesn't like to hear the following, but when I look at the cooperation that has arisen now that is really the case since the shift from one department to another, I see only advantages in that. I refer to the cooperation between the National Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary as one and indivisible criminal justice chain, each with its own total responsibility, the discussions that exist and the way they talk about ICT. The ICT systems were of course separate, because there are separate systems in two departments. I know, however, that Mrs Berndsen has a different view of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u188	The Minister completely ignores the separation of powers. He's narrowed it down a little bit to the ICT systems. Well, they're still not linked to each other, despite the fact that all those parts are within one ministry. Perhaps the Minister could go a little deeper into the separation of powers. This separation is, of course, completely out of the question: there is one minister and it is about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u189	I'd almost say... No, let me not say that. I haven't seen any problems with the separation of powers, just in practice. Mrs Berndsen now says at the microphone: I do. It's okay if she's seen any problems, but I'd like to hear that from her. I see that within the judiciary, within the Public Prosecutor's Office and within the National Police, there is no doubt whatsoever about the roles that one has and the independence that one has. I also see, really daily, that they report how much experience and how much better experience they gain with that collaboration, which has become much easier since everything and everyone is part of one and the same department. We are far from being there, Mrs Berndsen does not hear me say, but we are on the right track. It is up to a future cabinet, as Mr Recourt said, to take other decisions on this. I understand that, too. I know how that goes. However, I do not see any problems at all in terms of the separation of powers, absolutely not, because in the Netherlands both the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor and the National Police are very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. I must honestly say that from the discussions with my colleagues abroad, I am saying that they all think that they should do what we do: to form a national police force and to make sure that the organisations concerned are part of a single department, in which much better cooperation can be achieved. With all due respect, they're jealous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u190	This is a huge challenge on the part of the Minister. Go ahead, Mrs. Berndsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u191	Let me keep this brief. I get why ministers say that. Of course, because it's really nice to be able to go over three of those organizations. However, from the point of view of law, I do not understand why a liberal minister should get this out of his mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u192	You have to be not only liberal but sometimes pragmatic. There are other countries where it is organized as well. It's about the integrity of the organization. Basically, it doesn't matter who's where, if the organizations are honest. They are to an exceptional extent in the Netherlands. I'm incredibly proud of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u193	Mr van Nispen, I think you want to interrupt on this point. I understand that you answered the question with the latter, Minister. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u194	I'm just trying something else. Since 2010, security has been part of the Ministry of Justice. There were two VVD executives and from that moment on, that ministry has become a kind of press release ministry, which wants mainly to radiate strength and above all to tackle it. One press release on the same subject is being circulated once more, in order to show that it is a matter of security. Too much attention is lost on the rule of law. I do not see in any way that the Minister is going to change anything about the fact that the image of a ruler is sometimes more important than telling us what is really going on or that he is going to deal with the problems that really matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u195	Without taking into account the content of this question, I say the following. In one of the many articles that have been written about me in my office as Minister in recent days, the word 'invisible' comes up with some regularity. I am accused that, unlike my predecessor, I am invisible in things. Either one is true, namely what the media write, or the other, namely what Mr Van Nispen says. I don't know. What I do is very simple. I see when my task is to achieve the reorganisation of the National Police, to ensure that the Public Prosecutor's Office will do its work in cooperation with the National Police and the judiciary much better, to enable the judiciary to do its work efficiently and properly, with a good balance between costs and benefits, and to improve the criminal justice chain as quickly as possible, which we all know needs to be done. I note that in recent years, through the way in which my predecessors have led the department, we have focused much more on achieving concrete results than before. As far as this is concerned, I have mentioned this once in another debate, and I have said it to my predecessors: I think you are putting your necks out by concretely agreeing what you want to achieve, because you will eventually be taken care of. I see what we have done with each other: the huge decline in the number of robberies more than the national average; this is important: the huge decline in the number of shoplifters and the decline in the number of burglaries because concrete measures have been taken. I do not think you can endorse in general terms the texts that Mr Van Nispen has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u196	It can't be both true. Or the Minister says here: I actually do not think that things have been going so well since 2010, and I am announcing a change of course. Or: things have changed since my arrival and we are going to focus more on the content than on image and press releases. Or the Minister says: from 2010 on, it has gone quite well with the merging of security and justice, and we continue on that basis. It's one of two. I'd like to hear from the Minister what it is and how he's going to change things in concrete terms if he thinks something needs to change. Or are we just gonna go on the old foot?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u197	In the very first speech I made here, during Question Time, I said straight away that Lady Justitia does not have the scale for nothing. In my view, that is no different from my predecessors. I see that scale on one side as a symbol of safety. You can and must demand from my ministry that that direction is in order, and will be sorted out as far as it is not yet in order. On the other hand, you have the rule of law. Those two can't exist without each other. In a country where there is no rule of law, you can never be safe. And in a country where there is no security, you can never have a rule of law. That's my line. I can send Mr Van Nispen my speeches. It's the line I've consistently set up. Those two, Lady Justitia with the scales, show me how I see my task: the rule of law on the one hand and security on the other. I can be addressed to both of them, and I strongly invite Mr Van Nispen to do so. And I know Mr. Van Nispen; he will do it. I can only show in individual cases that this is always my balancing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u198	This could just look like some kind of academic issue: does security come first and then justice, justice? However, this is a very real contradiction. It's a very real problem, exactly in this case. Because in this case, the situation occurred that the previous Secretary of State suggested to the outside world that he could, for example, stop Van der G's probationary leave, while the preparations were made internally. Internally, it was about reintegration and socialisation, important elements of the rule of law. And outwardly, both the list leader and the Secretary of State and the VVD group gave rise to the suggestion that they would train and stop it. In the end, more people are disappointed than with an attempt to satisfy the sense of security. So exactly in this case, you saw it collided. There was an external reality in which security was paramount, and an internal reality in which the rule of law prevailed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u199	I do not entirely agree with Mr Segers. Turn it around and imagine we wouldn't have made the preparations the moment the judge made the verdict he made. The RSJ stated that the probationary leave and the conditional release had to take place, partly because the probationary leave had run out without any difficulties and difficulties. I think the alternative is impossible. Then you say: we do not agree that he gets probationary leave given the background and the social unrest. We had that debate here in the Chamber; at that time I was still one of the Members. And at the same time, you'd say, "And we're not gonna prepare anything either." I would have found that impossible. On the contrary, I think it is very careful that everyone realized that, if it were to come to parole and conditional release, it would be our legal obligation, under the law, to ensure that this gentleman, despite what he has done and what we think about it, can simply resocialise in a careful, responsible and safe way in a safe environment, with respect for the next of kin and for the victim, there is still one living victim, and without society having to suffer the consequences. So all kinds of conditions have been chosen, such as the media ban and the location ban. To be honest, I think that is very careful. So I do not see the contradiction Mr Segers has outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u200	What I find impossible is that an e-mail from the Secretary of State has been sent to the next of kin, saying: I do not want Van der G. to be given probationary leave. And that in an election debate the leader of the VVD said: I will fire the person responsible for granting probationary leave. This has given rise to the suggestion to the general public: we can stop it; we do not like that man for understandable reasons and we are going to train that probationary leave. That suggestion has been awakened and that promise has been made. Then the reality of the rule of law, in which you have rules and agreements, in which the prosecution has a role and in which judges have a role, is another reality. That's what crashed in here, isn't it? Or does the Minister say that this was a fine statement at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u201	I will not be tempted in this debate to comment on an issue that took place in 2012 and on which we have had a wide-ranging debate. I note that, on the one hand, there were serious questions and serious discussions about whether the leave of Van der G. would lead to social unrest. This is described in the law as one of the reasons for refusing a probationary leave. I remember the debate we had with the Secretary of State in question. Several parties then stated in the Chamber that it was desirable that he should refer that review to the judge and that he himself said: I do not think it should be done. That's his choice. At the same time, I note that when the trial leave had to be allowed, this also happened loyally and neatly. I note, then, that the department and the executive have said that it is also their responsibility that, if the person concerned is released on parole, this can be done in a careful way, precisely because of respect for the relatives and the victim, in order to prevent social unrest and in the light of the re-socialisation, reintegration and security of the person concerned. To be honest, I don't see any light in that. That's how I'd do it. I think that's the way it should be. You can have an opinion on that, and you can sue for it. Then you have to make sure that you do prepare it, especially in this particular case. If this had been lost, there would have been a good chance that things would have gone wrong and, rightly, we would have had another debate, because then the government simply would not have complied with its duty of care. And she has it in a rule of law. I would also like to respond immediately to Mr Bontes' last question. He asked me to terminate the security of someone like Van der G immediately. The answer to that is no. One of the Members has already said this; I think Mr van Oosten has done so. It's hard to say that, because I fully realize that the security of such a man as Van der G. stems from the murder of Pim Fortuyn. Mr Bontes is right to say that the whole system of surveillance and security is based on that. However, if a person is threatened in such a way that security is necessary, it can take place either on a decentralised or central basis. That's what I stand for. Furthermore, I do not make any announcements about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u202	The example quoted by Mr Segers was precisely about directors who gave their views in advance. Then it seems as if politics is turning around, as if it is said first that we are doing everything we can and then say that there is nothing we can do about it. Isn't that what's causing extra disappointment? Precisely from rule of law leaders, one would expect them to exercise some restraint at that first stage, in which opportunities are still being investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u203	I believe that also rulers have freedom of expression in our country. They can really say what they think of things. In addition, as a ruler, you have the responsibility to do what you are meant to do. That's what happened. I honestly do not see that discrepancy at all, unless I misunderstand Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u204	The result is that the indignation of many people is then even greater. After all, they think that work is being done to prevent anyone, in this case Van der G., from being released. There is the responsibility you then have as a ruler. I think it would be more appropriate to say at such a time: it is not up to me, I wait first to see what the outcome of the investigation is. I think that would have been the clean route. The minister just gave us a list of results. These were all safety results. However, when I look at the privacy that is constantly under pressure, the cuts in subsidised assistance and the eavesdropping of lawyers by the General Intelligence and Security Service, I think you might as well conclude that the rule of law is indeed suffering from the tough language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u205	I certainly do not share that last conclusion with Mrs Voortman. I would point out that we are improving access to justice with the KEI project and that, in the interests of all the parties concerned, we are working with 22 legislative proposals to structurally modernise the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would also point out our work in the field of privacy, for example in the discussions with the Secretary of State in Brussels and Luxembourg on European legislation on the protection of people's privacy. When I look at all the other subjects that day in, day out at our department both by me and by the Secretary of State, I can only conclude that we are really the Ministry of Justice alongside the Ministry of Security, with the rule of law in mind and daily on our desk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u206	The minister's predecessor, Mr Opstelten, made sure that Mr Volkert van der Graaf, the murderer of Pim Fortuyn, was added to the realm. In other words, he needs security. That would have happened in the national interest. Can the Minister explain exactly what that national interest is that Volkert van der Graaf should have security?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u207	I do not know the considerations of my predecessor which led to this decision. I note that the social unrest which preceded Mr Van der G's trial leave will have been the serious cause. I wasn't there; I'm speculating now. Mr Bontes will remember the demonstrations, the fact that a prize was put on Mr Van der G's head to take a picture of him and the people who were very actively looking for Volkert van der G. There must have been serious concerns about his safety. Then there are two possibilities: the decentralised domain, that is the basic rule, or the central domain. My predecessor chose to do it in the central domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u208	This story is bullshit and I'll explain why that's the case. Volkert van der Graaf has made sure that he has his head in the media; along with the minister's club he has made sure that he has entered the newspaper. The NCTV was about to call off that photo report because there was no more threat. The organization has only failed to pursue this. The mayor of Apeldoorn said at Volkert van der Graaf's conditional release that the last inhabitant of Apeldoorn would become. There is therefore no reason, because there is no threat to Mr Volkert van der Graaf. Then why is he still being protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u209	I cannot give an answer to this question given my constitutional function and the state secret. I never go into the individual security measures, whether existing or not, for an individual in our society. I can't do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u210	Mr Bontes would like to make another comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u211	In this situation, I find this incomprehensible. I believe that the Chamber is entitled to know why Volkert van der Graaf is being protected. He himself chose to be shown with his head in the media, the mayor of Apeldoorn said he lived in Apeldoorn and the NCTV that the photo reportage could be cancelled because it was no longer necessary. Why is this man, who killed Pim Fortuyn, still getting security? That's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u212	I can neither confirm nor deny that there is any surveillance of any Dutch person. I won't do this either. I have also been asked whether I believe that the media ban has been violated by the publication of that photo and the entire history, which we know by now. I write in my letter that, on the basis of history, it cannot be maintained that there is a violation of the media ban. Mr Recourt also pointed this out in an interruption. For this reason, I have also considered the position of the Public Prosecutor to be understandable. Then they asked me what I'm gonna do if the probation investigation is available and the D.A. has checked this out. This is actually a repetition of what was exchanged between Mr Van Oosten and me during Question Time. I cannot now answer the question of what I will do, because I do not yet know the results of the investigation. However, I am very aware of the competence given to me by Article 15.i, first paragraph of the Criminal Code, namely the power to ask the Public Prosecutor to bring an action for the withdrawal of the conditional release from justice. I would like to point out that this is not the power of direction which I, as a minister, also have in relation to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is a right of appeal that the Criminal Code gives me, but under the law I can request the Public Prosecutor to do so if it decides not to make that claim before the court. The question of whether I will do so will be weighed on the basis of the documents I will receive from the Public Prosecutor's Office or the probation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u213	Then today I would like to have the Minister's assurance that the investigation now being carried out by the parole board covers the full breadth of that issue. In other words, the investigation should look not only at a possible violation of the media ban, although I have heard the Minister's views and read what he writes about it in the letter, and at the other general and special provisions linked to the release, but also at the spirit behind it. When you are released early, you should behave as everyone has normally behaved in this country. You cannot afford to commute back and forth between municipalities to boost your assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u214	I can confirm this in so far as the legal test and case law require it. Within that framework, I fully understand what Mr Van Oosten is saying. He then asked if I could get all the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice to look at that review, and there are quite a few of them. First of all, the lawyers of the Public Prosecutor's Office will look at the probation report. In addition, I will do so as a minister. I expect to be able to inform the Chamber in two or three weeks, around mid-October. In that context, Mrs Helder asked whether, if Van der G. violates conditions, an action is brought for the enforcement of his sentence. The answer is, of course, yes. If he violates his terms, then I think this should be done, because that is the way the law works. There was a little discussion between Members of Parliament about the change in the law and Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment, which I also signed, because I thought was a good amendment, which fortunately was also adopted by the Chamber. That offers the opportunity to extend the probationary period. It is true, as Mrs Helder pointed out, that no transitional right has been provided for. However, I would like to ask Mrs Helder and Mr Oskam what the Upper House think about this. If it is adopted and if Mr Van der G's period of conditional release is still running, it may apply to him. Mrs Helder asked who took the initiative to take that photo. That has not become clear, as the letter states. Who decided to do that? Well, it's become clear. That was the NCTV. He's ordered the police officers, in the framework of guarding and securing, to make that possible. They did. We don't know the initiative, but we do know the decision. We also know that neither government representative has made that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u215	I had divided my question into two moments of decision, namely the decision to take the photo and the decision to publish it. I said I see that as two decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u216	Yes, I wrote it this way in the letter: no decision has been taken by the rulers to take the photo, nor has it been decided by the rulers to publish the photo. In fact, I know the minister involved was surprised that the photo appeared. The study also shows that people were not aware of this, but they were aware of the idea that it might eventually be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u217	That was the reason for me to ask who took those decisions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u218	In the context of the discussion about monitoring and securing and how we find out what the security level should be, NCTV has instructed the police guards to enable that photograph. Mrs. Voortman asked why was never discussed to cancel the photo moment. She said the direction was lost. That's where she hits the nail on the head. That was the problem. The central direction was gone after May 15th. We found that the NCTV felt that it was no longer necessary, because Mr Bontes had let us know where he lived. There had also been announcements to the neighborhood residents about where he lived and there had been no fuss. Nevertheless, the NCTV did not inform the lawyer, the AIFM or the prosecutor that it was no longer necessary. That means that actually publishing the picture for the DA and the NCTV came as a surprise, but should not have come as a surprise. Mr Recourt asked whether the NCTV had been told that it was not a good idea in the end. The answer to that is no. My investigation has shown that, although the NCTV considered that it was no longer necessary, it did not notify it, nor did it notify the prosecution. Mr Oskam and Mr Segers asked whether the NCTV and the There is an answer to that that may not sound so nice: the Security and Security Service has no opinion on what one does within one's own service. The task of the service is to carry out orders and ensure that the person who is protected is actually safe. The NCTV initially considered that the AIFM could contribute to that security. Later the need was missing, but no follow-up was given and no one was informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u219	That is precisely why I found the phrase in the letter that sensitive information is sometimes limited to employee level, not so chic. I heard the minister say: the GDP is doing its job and is given the job of protecting someone, and that's what the GDP is doing. Then it is true that the management of the AIFM or the organisation that directs this service must ensure that when an assignment gets a different interpretation or whatever else it is, it also lands and continues to do so? I have some difficulty with the phrase: it has been limited to employee level. Yeah, those people are just doing their job, but they're being controlled. As for those who are controlled, I would like the Minister to address those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u220	That's exactly what it says in the letter. People at the level of implementation are addressed on their responsibilities, but not in the sense that they result in consequences. As I said at the beginning of this debate, it is up to my department and its departments to take responsibility for this. However, it is a fact that crucial information, not with regard to the built-up fund, is not discussed in the context of the project, but with regard to the public prosecutor, the NCTV and my department, for example information on the question of Focal Point, has never reached official management. The fact is that crucial information in a politically sensitive file has not been brought to the leadership so that the leadership has not been able to inform the minister, even though it should have. So I fully agree with Mr Van Oosten. That sentence is no different from a factual finding. The task lies with the administration and ultimately with me as minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u221	In this answer I miss the parole hearing, on which I had asked another question. There's two sides to it. On the one hand, there is the role played by probation in the broadcast, in which the suggestion was raised that Volkert van der G. had violated the media ban. I think that's part of the probation. So my question is how the Minister looks at that. On the other hand, the Minister mentions the screening of his own department, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NCTV and the fact that everything is going to happen there to prevent accidents. What about the parole board? The top of the probation also didn't know what was going on and it also stuck in the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u222	Mr Oskam is quite right about that. There is a difference, in the sense that the probation is an execution organisation of the D.A. So the moment the D.A. gets the question from Brandpoint Reporter, it's up to the D.A. to report to his own administration and then it's up to that administration to report to me. The probation could have done that, but if it hadn't happened and it had gone well everywhere else it wouldn't have caused a problem. So there is a small nuance difference in the task of parole. The probation works on behalf of the D.A.'s office. In itself, it's pretty clear that the director of the parole board thinks he should have known about this. There's no discussion about that. There are a number of separate questions, but most of them have been dealt with in all the interruptions and debates we have had. I have already explained the measures. I have also raised the issue of the position of the National Police. Mr. Chairman. I think I came to the end of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you very much for that. This brings the first deadline to an end. Can we proceed immediately or is there a need for a suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u224	I only have a small fraction, but I would like to talk for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u225	I find it difficult to refuse such a request in such a debate. I see agreement, too. We're gonna suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u226	The next item is the second part of the debate on the provision of information to the Chamber on Volkert van der G. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Helder, who has about two minutes' speaking time in the second period, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u227	Mr. Chairman. Volkert van der Graaf appeared to everyone's horror on TV. Questions were raised, which were answered in Question Time. In that Question Time, the Minister misinformed the Chamber. There was a debate and the Minister found that incredibly annoying. After an interruption of the PVV there were eventually excuses and those excuses of the minister are more than justified. It was Volkert van der Graaf's then attorney who made sure we know what we know. We must also make that clear to ourselves. It wasn't the Ministry; it was the then lawyer who finally got the ball rolling. Then the Minister, after numerous mistakes that have been made, says 'I do not know whether the broom should go through the Ministry', and 'you should be in my shoes'. That is not very hopeful for the future, but let me put it this way: the excuses came eventually and my group is satisfied with that now, but it says: this is the last chance we give the Minister. Then the content that the debate was finally requested about, Volkert van der Graaf. My group does believe that he has violated the media ban. If it isn't with its appearance in focal point, then it is with the independent offering of camera images that have been made. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are grounds for bringing the question of breach of the conditions of the conditional release of Volkert van der Graaf before the court;]] [[noting that, on the basis of Article 15i (1) of the Code of Criminal Law, the Minister is empowered to request the Public Prosecutor's Office to bring an action for the withdrawal of the conditional release;]] [[calls on the Minister to request the Public Prosecutor's Office to bring an action for the withdrawal of Volkert van der Graaf's conditional release,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u228	Not on this motion, but on a general question, Mr President. I do not know whether Mrs Helder has read all of her motions, but I myself would like to table a motion stating that Volkert van der Graaf's security will be lifted because there is no threat. He goes into the media himself; the mayor also said something about it. My question to Mrs Helder is whether she is going to support my motion, because it seems that she is not coming up with that motion herself. I shall ask for the support of Mrs Helder in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u229	I can't get ahead of myself. I will have to read the motion and then I will discuss it with my group for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u230	That's not such a complicated motion. The operative part will be that Volkert van der Graaf's security will have to be lifted immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u231	Despite that, I'm not going to anticipate things. I'll wait for the motion, and I'll discuss it internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the first-term answers. Two final questions on the substance of the Volkert van der G case. Is it true that Volkert van der G. had an obligation of secrecy regarding the framing of the photos, I ask the Minister? Is criminal action being taken now that he appears to have violated this duty with focal point? Then I would like to speak about the legislative proposal on long-term supervision, behavioral influence and restrictions on freedom. It's in the First Chamber. On 18 November 2014, the First Chamber submitted questions on this subject. Part of this bill, it has already come to order, is the Van Toorenburg/Helder/Van der Steur amendment. Can the Minister answer these questions as soon as possible so that the legislative proposal can enter into force on 1 January? It's in a hurry. Does the Minister also understand that there is this urgency, given the release of Volkert van der G. and that supervision will end differently in 2016? So it's really jumping in a hurry. The CDA Group is deeply concerned about the way in which it has all dealt with the Van der G case and the way in which this case has been dealt with within the Ministry and the services and ultimately led to this debate. Was the performance last week illustrative of this minister's actions, toughness for reliability, impulsiveness for care? Security and Justice must be a strong core department. Last week that wavered and today two new cases have been introduced which confirm that. No motions today. The improvement must simply become visible because this type of error is no longer made. We expect a lot from the Minister. We expect the Minister to manage this properly. We are still waiting for the report from the Oosting Committee, on which we will have a detailed discussion with the Minister. Very special in this case of Volkert van der G. is that this minister himself has shown little involvement. He sits there for six months and only at Question Time he went further into the matter and gave orders. I'd like a comment on why this has all been so difficult. For the CDA group, it is also important that after today no new bodies come out of the closet. Can the Minister guarantee that there will be no more surprises? Is this the last ghost file from his ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u233	Madam President. You're trying to get such a debate working on you a little bit, and I'm left with a feeling of bewilderment. How is it possible that there was so much prior consultation between all kinds of organisations, between directors and with the lawyer, and that there was so little communication that there was so little transfer of knowledge? That remains an astonishing observation. The problem arose not only in advance, but also afterwards, after Question Time. That not all alarm bells went off immediately says a lot about political sensitivity and judgment in and around the minister. A ministry and a minister with so much experience and knowledge and skills and then such a baffling political feeling, it remains very difficult to follow exactly. It concerns a ministry and a minister on very important issues. It's about the police, it's about the fight against terrorism, it's about the rule of law, it's about the Public Prosecutor's Office. Such important topics and then such an assessment point at such a point... The minister says he didn't fully assess the scope. That, of course, concerns the other issues. There are even more important issues where the same error of assessment can be made. That's what's left of it. I invite the Minister to reflect on this and to answer the question of how confidence can be restored. Mr Helder interrupted and the Minister apologized. I think we need to draw a line here, because it affects the confidence between the Chamber and the Cabinet that when information is requested, that information comes to the Chamber and is good, good and checked. I am tabling a motion for the future with a view to the future of the ministry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an unhealthy concentration of power in the Ministry of Security and Justice by bringing the Security Part of the Ministry of the Interior under Rutte I to the Ministry of Security and Justice;]] [[Whereas, for a sound balance of power, it is desirable to return Security, including police management, to the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations;]] [[points out that at the next appropriate time Security, including police management, should be re-housed with the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u234	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to point out that the Minister has ruled out the fact that there was nothing more in the notice than what had to do with the photo in violation of the media ban. However, it is still incomprehensible to my group that no action was taken on the Monday after the broadcast. There is no urgency and political sensitivity. How is it that information doesn't get to the top of the organization? The Minister's apology is in order. The Minister himself has chosen to come to the Chamber with incomplete information. D66 gives the minister a yellow card. The Minister can hardly afford any mistakes anymore. Can the Chamber trust that V and J will now send correct and complete information to the Chamber? Does the Minister further fully understand the need to be in control of his ministry now? Is he prepared to instruct himself and the Secretary-General to keep the administrative sustainability of the department well and openly under review? I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since 2010, the government has organised the Ministry of Security and Justice in such proportions by adding Security to the Department that internal coordination, management and information to the Chamber have been compromised;]] [[Whereas several incidents have occurred since 2010 in which the Chamber has not been fully informed by the Minister of Security and Justice and the organisational problems in the Ministry have, inter alia, been the cause of these incidents;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the administrative sustainability of the department and to develop a scenario in which Security from the Ministry of Security and Justice returns to the Ministry of the Interior, and inform the Chamber thereof before 1 May 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u235	Mr. Chairman. It was not good what the Minister showed and heard this afternoon. Yet he gets the benefit of the doubt: chopping over the ditch. Even the excuses came out a little arrogant. Anyway, the minister just got here and let's try it again. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop Volkert van der Graaf's security immediately and never to re-establish it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the official summit at the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office systematically informs the directors insufficiently and incorrectly;]] [[noting that the Minister of Security and Justice is afraid to clean up his department and the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[calls on the Bureau to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the functioning of the official summit at the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u236	Mr. Chairman. When you look at the course of the debate, it becomes very clear that the focus was very one-sided. It was entirely focused on the question of whether there was a violation of criminal sanctions. There was no careful checking and careful informing each other. There's been an act with blinders on it and, yes, I only have one word for that: tunnel vision. The Minister will have to make every effort to improve the situation in the Ministry, to improve internal communication and, above all, to ensure that political sensitivity is also developed. I say that because this cannot be repeated. The department must become the department that people trust, because it is very important that we do not have to hear things from the newspaper when it comes to justice. In other words, the Ministry must communicate clearly and the Minister is the first point of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u237	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answer. It would not be very pleasant to have to be in the Minister's shoes at this time. That applies not only to this day, but also to the Ministry. It's not nice to have to constantly ask yourself what else to ask and who to trust. After all, the Minister was sent to the Chamber with a ticking bomb. The bomb was ticking and the minister could have asked himself: what is ticking and should I look more closely? It does not alter the fact that the employees who said to the Minister "go into the Chamber with this story" sent the Minister with explosive material on the way and that cannot be done. I have already said in the first term that it was not good, that it is not good and that it should be better. That is why there is a huge task for this minister. He must improve accountability and information, but not create a culture of fear. After all, the Ministry must be able to do its job. There are a lot of good people working, as he himself stressed. We are going to talk about this in the Oosting report. Trust in the Ministry must return. However, I am convinced that the Minister is going to do so with full force. Finally, I come to another story, the story of the rule of law. The rule of law began at a time when the government could throw random citizens into prison. Most of the rules we have are there to protect citizens from the unbridled power of government; this applies to every citizen. We shouldn't forget that. Sometimes, however, it seems as if part of the Chamber forgets that. I think that is a worrying development. I do not want political persecutions, and I will look very strongly at them in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr. Chairman. My conclusion is that my concerns have increased. That's two things: I've got an even clearer view of the cultural problems in the ministry and the information is not in order. However, my confidence in the Minister has increased. Why? The Minister sees the mistakes, he acknowledges the mistakes, he regrets the mistakes and he has drawn up a firm plan to resolve them. That is why this debate is at the end of the day. My appeal to the Minister is therefore to make a strong effort to solve the problems. We will follow that and we will undoubtedly have another debate on it. If the Minister continues in this way, we will support it. The question is also whether incidents can occur. A professor of ethics once said to me: you are doing it wrong at Question Time, in other words: you should do it differently. You should bring a minister to Question Time every Tuesday and ask him what mistake he made last week. If he says he didn't make any mistakes, you have to send him away acutely. After all, it is impossible for a ruler in such a complex ministry to make mistakes. However, policies should aim to minimise the errors and learn from the mistakes made. The diametrical point might be that if the Minister succeeds in getting the information in order, perhaps we will have more debates on incidents, precisely because information on them will come out better. We should not be afraid of that and we should not say 'once, but never again' or that the Minister should leave when there is another incident. No, we have to check every time whether the policy is aimed at preventing these incidents, and whether the Minister is prepared to learn from the mistakes. At the moment, I see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u239	Mr. Chairman. The SP finds it incomprehensible that things could have gone so wrong. The House of Representatives, and therefore society, must be able to rely on the accuracy and completeness of the information it receives from the directors. Around the publication of the photo of Volkert van der G. that went horribly wrong. The Chamber is incorrect and incompletely informed. I still find this incomprehensible, especially since it was and is an extremely politically sensitive issue. Yes, mistakes have been made by others. The D.A.'s office wasn't complete. The Department of Press Information didn't make the call in time about the dispatch of Brandpoint, while that afternoon the message was already around that the summary proceedings had been won and the broadcast would continue. But the Minister in particular has made huge mistakes. First of all, he did not make enough effort to find out the truth himself. He has been there for six months, but he has not done enough between the broadcast and Question Time. Two important signals have also been missed: the Public Prosecutor's Notice on the involvement of Justice in the photograph and the lawyer's warning. The minister says, "I didn't know why the lawyer was angry." But he didn't pick it out either. Nevertheless, the minister stands here with a fraction of the whole story. As far as I'm concerned, that shouldn't happen again. We must be able to rely on the accuracy of the information. As far as I'm concerned, it's on this point but never again. I asked the Minister how this could have happened. I did not get a clear answer to that. The Minister promises to get better, but does this mean that he will think twice before he says anything and that he has the facts in order? After all, we are not in a pub here, but in the Lower House. This is about trust in the Minister. For the time being, my group is giving him the benefit of the doubt in getting the ministry in order. That is also what this is about: confidence in the Ministry of Security and Justice. That confidence is also damaged, and that is bad. For the SP, the image has not been taken away that the Ministry is too busy with imaging, with the protection of the image of the ruler. and too little with the matters that matter, such as the security of society and the strengthening of the rule of law. This has to change to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u240	Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise four points briefly in the two minutes I have. It is good that the Minister recognises that serious bottlenecks need to be resolved, both within the department and within the associated organisations: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the probation and so on. It is also good that the Minister is prepared to look critically, not only at the department, not only at the official summit, but also at himself in particular. I also note that the Secretary-General is now working. I would like to stress once again that I expect the Minister to be on top of that. I also expect him to say that all options are left open when it comes to possible human consequences. Not because I want to see a head roll, but because I really want us here in this Chamber to know with us 150's that all the information is coming to us that is necessary to be able to discuss all the issues properly and fully. Mr Van Nispen also spoke about this. But first, analyze, act. And quick, please. I shall come back to the point where it all began, namely the questions I myself raised for Question Time. I continue to say that I would very much like to do so, and my group, too, would like it to be considered whether Van der G. has violated the conditions for his release both literally and in spirit. It's not just about the media ban, it's wider than that. The VVD also wants to see whether Van der G. infringes the conditions for obtaining or maintaining his welfare allowance. Finally, I would like to appeal to the Minister. I am asking the exact same question with which I ended my speech last week. Please, Minister, do not hesitate to end up using your own powers if, after examining the probation, the Public Prosecutor does not decide on his own initiative to refer it to the court. Then make use of your own powers. I expect a positive basic position on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u241	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister. In my first term, I have already mentioned that an employee usually has a few months probation period and that an evaluation interview follows. That is what we have been feeding today. There are many criticisms and doubts. From D66 the minister even gets a yellow card. As far as we're concerned, he's not getting a permanent appointment yet, he's getting an extension of the probationary period. In doing so, he is specifically instructed to make a real clean-up of the bad culture and communication that it is so lacking on parts of his ministry. I still have one urgent question to ask. I found that it did not help that the murderer of Pim Fortuyn was not sentenced to life imprisonment and was also released early. That will cause permanent discomfort. Does the Minister see opportunities to come up with a workable solution to this invigorating issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u242	This ended the second term of office. The Minister indicated that he could respond immediately to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u243	Mr. Chairman. Your Chamber asked critical questions and made critical comments in the first and second periods. They're justified. I'm not running away from my responsibility as a minister. I have listened carefully to your Chamber and I note that there is a heavy task on me and all my staff to restore confidence in our department. I also see it as my job to restore that trust, along with all those employees working with heart and soul for the safety of our society that day in, day out. I shall first briefly answer a number of questions and then come to the debate on the motions. Mrs Helder said: we must realise that we now know how things went thanks to the lawyer. I would point out that Mrs Helder is not quite right in that, because I promised in Question Time that I would inform the Chamber about the precise procedure, precisely because I did not know what the precise procedure was either. However, it is a fact that the lawyer felt called to make the announcements he has made, as I have made them, which I do not go into any further. These were, in fact, correct, as I said in the first term. Mr Oskam asked about the obligation of confidentiality of Van der G. The government has not been involved in the agreement concluded between Mr Van der G and the photographer concerned. So what is further regulated there does not respect the government either. Mr Oskam has asked me whether I can make haste with the legislative proposal which incorporates the amendment tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Steur and Mr Helder. Yes, we always make haste with important legislative proposals and yes, we also give very careful answers to the questions raised by the Upper Chamber from the legal background of our department. It's gonna take time. We are taking this time because we believe that it should be done carefully. I am glad that when I look at Mr Oskam like that I can count on the approval of the CDA Group for the whole of the law, including the amendment. Then we will also be able to implement it as soon as possible. Mr Oskam has asked whether this will be on 1 January 2016. This is quite an intrusive bill. Reality shows that implementation will not succeed before 1 July 2016. I will also inform Mr Oskam about this through the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u244	There is a risk that these two years of supervision will be over. What about Volkert van der G's case? Is there any possibility of extending that surveillance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u245	I am not entirely focused on the retina when the conditional release of Van der G. expires, but my impression is that the bill will be implemented in time, because it will take place in 2016. I think the conditional release runs until 2018. I would add that this is not based on facts, because I don't know. This is what I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u246	The Minister learns quickly. I would ask him to keep a close eye on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u247	Yes. I have already promised to inform the First Chamber of this, as is customary. Mr Oskam has also asked whether this is the last ghost file we encounter. I also heard Mr Dijkgraaf very well just now when he said: we are going to ask the Minister if he has made mistakes in the past week; if the answer is no, he has to leave. In a department like mine, with the work we do, with that complexity of laws and regulations and with people who oppose, like criminals who do not cooperate, which is very annoying! There will always be things in the organization that don't go well. The only answer to Mr Segers' question as to whether the Chamber could count on me to inform her fully, in good time and correctly is that of course she can count on it. That's the stakes and the stakes. If that does not happen, I will be accountable to the Chamber. I have heard well that some of the groups have said in that context that this is a discussion with some depth and weight. By the way, I realize that I just said that the photographer had an agreement with Mr Van der G. That is not the case. I understand it was an agreement between the lawyer and the photographer. Mr Van der G. is not involved in this. Mr Oskam asked in the first term how the mission to the Public Prosecutor's Office went. I've had that checked out. An official of my department was communicated to the Public Prosecutor's Office early on a Monday morning that it wanted to have a notice of office from the Public Prosecutor on this matter in the light of the announcement. As we know by now, this has been answered focusedly on the media ban, which was also the issue in the media. Mr Segers has blamed me for a flawed political feeling. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan zeggen dat ik dat nederig aanvaard.]] I have admitted that at that time I was not sufficiently aware of the nature and scope of the communications I received from the Public Prosecutor's Office and others, including the NCTV. That's right. That is also the essence of what I wrote in the letter. I took good note of the yellow card I got from D66. I can confirm to Mrs Berndsen that I see it as my job to be in control and remain in this department without giving the guarantee, because saying that mistakes are never made again would be unrealistic. That will be the case. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say once again that the Oosting Committee will make compelling recommendations and that I will immediately follow them up and implement them. I would like to thank those Members who have given me the benefit of the doubt despite the critical note they have cracked. I also found Mr Dijkgraaf's contribution very insightful on this point. I'd like to take up the challenge of making strong work of the improvements. After his assessment of this debate, Mr Van Nispen asked: how does the Minister intend to proceed next? I think I'll say more often than I actually do: Room, I don't know exactly, but I'll figure it out; you'll hear from me. If I do that very often, the Chamber will ask: what is that annoying thing? I know that, too. I am, of course, trying to take the golden middle course. On the one hand, I take on the duty to inform the Chamber correctly and in good time, but on the other hand, I should have noted on this point and in this particular case, as I wrote in the letter, that I had the impression that there was more to it and that I did not know what that was, but that I would have found out. I did, by the way, but not in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u248	I'm gonna come up here anyway. Of course, the Minister must think carefully about what he says in the Chamber and, if necessary, take the time to think carefully to be properly informed. The crucial point why I believe we have been here all afternoon and all morning is that crucial information does not seem to reach the Minister automatically if he wants it. I would like to see the official summit always bring crucial information to the Minister. That's the point. That sometimes takes time, I think, but all the information is known, so there has to be someone who takes control of it and gets that information to the minister. He should not be informed very briefly, quickly or briefly by means of a notice of office, but simply completely with the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u249	I can only say that I fully support Mr Van Oosten's speech. Mr Van Oosten also said that I should not hesitate to draw human consequences for individuals if, in the context of the improvement I am going to make in the department, on which I am still informing the Chamber, I come to the conclusion that I have to do so. I have confirmed in the first term that I will not fail to do so. I am sure I will do so myself, moreover, that the Public Prosecutor's Office will look very widely at the conditions and their possible violation, as Mr Van Oosten asks. With regard to assistance, I must say that Mr Van Oosten will not mind that this is a matter for the city council of the municipality of Apeldoorn. It is the municipality that is competent to provide assistance. I have heard his appeal about my powers under the Code of Criminal Law. Mr Krol expressed his disappointment at the case law in the Netherlands in this particular case. It is not for me as a minister to comment on that. I believe that this is in line with the call made by a number of political groups to uphold the rule of law in addition to security and attention. I will do so with great emphasis. I come to the first motion, the motion in part No. 11 by Mrs Helder of the PVV Group. She asks me to ask the Public Prosecutor's Office to file a claim for the withdrawal of Volkert van der Graaf's conditional release. I have no choice but to dissuade Mrs Helder from this motion. The probation has to do the investigation first and then the Public Prosecutor will test that investigation. I have promised Mr Van Oosten that this will be done by all his lawyers, or at least the good ones. After that, the Minister's next move. I am expected to inform the Chamber around mid-October about my opinion and what I might do. That is why, as I have said, I will not recommend the motion. In the motion by Mr Segers and Mr Berndsen-Jansen to item No. 12 it is stated that security should be restored to the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations at the next appropriate time. Lyrically, the motion on that point is difficult. I can already say to the Chamber that as far as I am concerned the next appropriate moment is not coming, at least not in my view. The next appropriate moment may well be in the negotiations on a new coalition agreement, in the future. I'm not sure I'm playing a part in that. I cannot carry out this motion if it were to be adopted. Moreover, it is not defined in such a way that I can do anything with it. Apart from the fact that I am supposed to be a minister to implement the coalition agreement, this option has not been described. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. I recommend that Mr Segers introduce this point on the occasion of a new coalition agreement, assuming that he is involved in these negotiations. In the motion in part No. 13 Ms Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Segers asked the government to examine the administrative sustainability of the department and to develop a scenario to achieve that division. I will discourage that motion for two reasons. The first is that the coalition agreement does not allow me to take up this motion. The second is that I am not going to burden my department in any way with an investigation that I do not know whether it is current or real. I think that this debate has also shown that there are other things to do in my department that require the full attention of all my people. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u250	A brief comment on the motion by Mrs Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Segers. A motion requesting a ruling from the Chamber should not, in my view, be discouraged by a minister. That motion does not ask the government, but asks the Chamber to give its opinion. In my humble opinion, the Minister does not need to speak on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u251	The Minister is an advisor to the Chamber. He's giving an opinion to the Chamber, and of course he's free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion says that something quite radical will change in my department. That applies to the motion in part No. 12. The motion in part No. 13 is addressed to the government. I will give a ruling on this on behalf of the government. For all the motions, however, my judgment is my judgment. It is an opinion and it is up to the Court to draw its conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u253	Mr Van Nispen's comment saw on the motion in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u254	Okay. Mrs Berndsen asked whether nothing happened on Monday. As I just said, the public prosecutor's office was requested on Monday. I immediately asked myself what was going on. Consultations were held with Reclassing The Netherlands on his statements, because they turned out not to be correct. The analysis of various documents has, of course, already begun, particularly in the light of the violation of the media ban. Then I come to the motion on part No. 14, by Mr Bontes. It calls on the government to stop the security of Volkert van der G immediately. There is no exception to the rule that people who need security get that security from the government. Furthermore, I can neither confirm nor deny the existence of security of the person concerned. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. In the last motion, in part No. 15, the Bureau is invited to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the functioning of the official summit. I assume that this motion is addressed to the Chamber, not to me or the government. I don't think the motion is addressed to me as a ruler. If the motion were addressed to me as a ruler, and if Mr Bontes were to confirm it, I would also advise her against it. I think it would be much better if I, as the Minister responsible, looked at the official summit of my department. I think that would be much better than a parliamentary inquiry by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u255	As President of the Bureau, I also believe that I should leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u256	I'll come back to Volkert van der Graaf's security. He's not threatened. The NCTV itself said: we don't want to let that photo shoot go on. That is not well communicated, but that was the approach of the NCTV. There's no threat. We don't have a duty of care for Volkert van der Graaf, do we? We don't have to take care of his safety, do we? You don't think other criminals are protected, do you? If we had to protect all those people, wouldn't there be so many murders in Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u257	The same question has already been put by Mr Bontes in the first term, in the same terms. I give the same answer to the same question: I cannot answer because I cannot deal with the security situation of individual Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u258	This has indeed already been changed, Mr Bontes. But go ahead and ask your question once more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u259	Apparently he has been placed under the regime of state security, or it means that the decisions are subject to state security. That's the world upside down, isn't it? He looks up the media himself and arranges for a picture to appear in the newspaper. The mayor of his hometown, Apeldoorn, says: we have a new resident, Volkert van der Graaf. That's weird, isn't it? The NCTV itself says, no, there's no threat, so you can call off that photo shoot. You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u260	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u261	I would point out that the observation made by the NCTV to which Mr Bontes refers was made in June 2014. That was over a year ago. For the rest, I say exactly the same thing as I said in reply to the same question by Mr Bontes in the first period. I cannot, and will not, make any communication about the individual security situation of the Dutch. Finally, I note that a great deal is being asked of me as a minister, of the Ministry of Security and Justice and of all our people. A great deal is rightly being asked of us. I will do my utmost to restore the confidence of the Chamber and not to damage it, even if it may be on an extended probationary period, as Mr Krol called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-9.u262	We shall vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
