ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, and in particular the Prime Minister. Twelve speakers have spoken for this debate. Mrs Thieme had signed up earlier, but she's signed out again. There are therefore 12 speakers in total. There is four minutes of speaking time per group. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Slob of the Christian Union. He has requested the debate. I suggest we try to do the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The world is on fire. Refugees, starving children, war and violence: the images force themselves on us. And then today we are debating the fat words of the Prime Minister. Does that make any sense? My conviction is yes. It is precisely this debate that deals with the major moral issues of our time. I see an opening in the Prime Minister's speech of several months ago and in this debate; an opening to break the deafening silence in politics at the beginning of the new political season when it comes to standards and values. It should be much more often here about our deepest principles, about the values that we consider important and about what they mean for the great issues of our time, such as the refugee problem. Otherwise, politics will become a smashed-up form of accounting. The letter that the Prime Minister wrote, which we waited for a very long time and finally received a few questions the day before yesterday, quite frankly disappoints me. Standards and values are more than a background music in the political debate. You can't talk about that without any commitment. The Prime Minister, as I see from his speech, has too little regard for the underlying causes of the fat-me, the raging individualism. The fundamental values of our Jewish-Christian society are not just on the workers' side. They are also on the side of refugees in boats on the Mediterranean, the more than 600,000 jobseekers in our country, chronically ill and disabled, homeless and homeless, and so on. I believe that the only way to fight me is if everyone counts and every life is valuable. Standards and values can never be the property of a collection of individual individuals. They are the property of a country, of people who are involved in each other. That should also appeal to the classic liberal in the Prime Minister. The government is not only guarding the external borders of social life, the law. Social peace is not the same as seeking the edges of justice, just as moral behavior of bankers is not the same as giving yourself a ton of gifts within the limits of the law. It's too much about what's allowed in our country and too little about what should be. We long for a society full of people who do not seek the borders, but the responsibility. This calls for political leadership, including this Prime Minister. The discussion about the fat-I is essentially about how much you take responsibility for the people around you. So there is also a bit of my disappointment about the Prime Minister's letter. I'm gonna ask him to respond to that disappointment of mine. The letter does not contain a political agenda at all, whereas that fat-me shows up every time. Refugees in Syria? Fine, but don't want too much in our country. Fighting climate change? No, we're appealing. Young people learn that it's wonderful to do something for society? No, this cabinet is cutting back on the social internship. Of course: I realize that the Prime Minister and I, as well as others, can sometimes come to different political choices. In this debate, however, I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister what his plans are for combating the thick-mindedness of our country. What does the Prime Minister have to offer to volunteers and carers, to employers who want to take social responsibility, to people who want to bank fairly? And how does he see the exemplary role of the government, starting with his own cabinet? What's his message to all those people of good will who make the fat-me a fat-we every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr Slob has a great deal of talk about standards and values, and the fat me. If you ask other people to take asylum seekers into their homes and not do so themselves, isn't that also a sign of a thick-mindedness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u4	If we in this country are discussing the creation of space, there are people who have the opportunity to take asylum seekers in and there are rules that hinder that, then that is indeed a reason to talk about it and create that space. That is how it happened yesterday in the debate. We must also respect the fact that every person has to consider this in his own family situation, whether they are MPs or those who are not politically active. I cannot deny that the fat-I can play a role in this; that could be the case. However, there may also be practical reasons why people do not do something. Let us not take each other's measure in this respect, but let us take a maximum look at what is possible. That is a message I would also like to give to the Prime Minister. If people have opportunities and want to express their social involvement, for example on the asylum issue, but also think of people who want to create a healthcare or energy cooperative, and they are hampered by government and by regulation, then we should try to remove those barriers and create space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u5	Asking others and not doing it yourself is a bit of pharisee behavior. I know enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u6	This is very easy from Mr. Bontes. Anyway, that's the way he chooses more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u7	I am very pleased that Mr Slob has requested this debate. I do have a problem. Mr Rutte, as leader of the VVD, gave a speech at a congress of the VVD, but is now in trade union K as a representative of the government, of all ministers. Would Mr Slob like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is here on behalf of all the ministers and speaking on behalf of the government, and whether he can indicate whether all parts of his speech are also shared by all the ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u8	I have the impression that Mr Van Raak needs a lot of speaking time and is now passing on some questions to my contribution through an interruption. I'd like to lend myself to that; we will. Of course, the Prime Minister gave this speech as a political leader of the VVD. We all know that. He spoke to his own directors. His speech was not addressed to the whole of the Netherlands, but to the directors of the VVD. However, we were all allowed to watch. I found it very interesting, because it was the first time that the Prime Minister so emphatically addressed such a theme, at least with his own directors. That is why I think it is worth talking to each other in the Chamber. Something like that goes in an orderly manner. Then we ask for a debate on this and we ask for a letter. That letter is, of course, written on behalf of the cabinet. The letter is the cabinet's position. At least that's how I judged him. I am disappointed because the letter is also very much inclined to what was said in the speech. I still miss some richer additions that could possibly have come from the coalition partner. However, this is the letter with which we must do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u9	I thought the letter was a bit disappointing, too. I thought there was very little in it. Perhaps it would be appropriate for the Prime Minister to review his speech at the beginning of his reply and tell us which parts of that speech are not shared by all ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u10	I would particularly like to have this debate in a constructive manner. It's very easy to expose some differences now. The political leader of the Labour Party reacted fairly quickly in a national medium and indicated that the Prime Minister still has a lot of homework. Of course, we're going to discuss whether that homework has been done properly, but let's see where we can find each other. It is so incredibly important that we do not go back and forth in the delusion of the day with all the topics that are on the agenda here. We also need to see if we can get out of there. What's driving us? What are the underlying values? Where can we find each other? How can we strengthen society? The Prime Minister had a point in that regard. How can we ensure that people, more than we often see now, although many heartwarming things are already happening, take responsibility for each other in the interaction between government, market and society? I think that is what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr Slob began his speech with the poignant problems in the world, to which we must do something and which we must worry about, and then make the bridge to the fat-Ike speech. His comments are acceptable and beautiful to everyone, but in fact he sticks to them, just like the Prime Minister in his letter. What's his point now? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Wat moeten wij en wat moet de regering daadwerkelijk gaan doen?]] What solutions does Mr Slob offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u12	I have noted that Mr Klein has signed up for one minute. For him it is very clear; he will probably be finished very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u13	For the record, it's not my choice that I'm registered for a minute. That is the choice of the Chamber, let me make it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u14	Good. Then this is a nice opportunity to say something more than that one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u15	No, and I come back to a point of order: it is just a question of a normal debate and that has nothing to do with a minute or whatever. The moment Mr Slob requests a debate, my question is what is the point he wants to achieve with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u16	Sure, and I'm gonna go into that, too. I would like to know what the Prime Minister's political agenda is when he addresses such an important issue. It is about standards and values, about how we deal with each other and about what we can expect from society, and then not only about excesses that, of course, have to be tackled, but also about how we can take responsibility for each other that is so much needed. How does the Prime Minister proceed with that? To this end, I see the main issues at the moment, such as asylum, refugee and environmental issues. I have just mentioned two other examples, namely the citizens in the Netherlands who would like to set up a healthcare corporation or an energy corporation, but who are hampered by the government when it comes to regulation. Can we create room for that? How do we get those schwung in society, so we're gonna put it in the background a little bit more and talk about the fat-we're gonna talk about that terminology? I'd like that. I would also like to point out here in this House, in this Chamber, a little more often: this drives me, these are the values that I think are important and these are the standards that I attach to them. In fact, Mr Klein often mentions this in the debate when he talks about freedom. This would also benefit the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u17	So the question is, in fact, whether this moment and this location, are the right time and the right place to put forward this liberality I support, or the Christian values that are very essential to Mr Slob in this way. Shouldn't it be much more of a public debate, as the Prime Minister's letter also states, sharing it with each other and going that way, in order to ensure that the mentality changes? So shouldn't it be a debate here, because it's "they do it there" and "it's their problem," just to put it bluntly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u18	It's not or-or, it's and-and. Of course it must be done in society, but it is not for nothing that the Prime Minister, over the heads of his own VVD leaders, has also addressed society. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is what political leaders should do when they see the importance of it and look for such a stage. The Prime Minister, like no other, has the perfect opportunity to create such stages. I was glad that this Prime Minister did that once. He's done it in a different way once before, through the participatory society, but that's completely bogged down; we don't hear anyone about it anymore. I hope that will not happen with this subject. After all, it would be very sad if, every time our Prime Minister steps forward and acts on an important subject, it was brought to an end very quickly. That is the way it seems to go a bit now, however, when you read the letter. This is where it's supposed to happen. This is the place. We are representatives of the people. We are engaged from a certain spirit, from certain values. We need to express it here, and we need to talk about it here. We need to see if we can find each other instead of trying to catch each other's flies. And we need to see if we can get on with this country. If you also connect with society, very nice things can happen. And luckily, those things happen, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. In the past, VVD leaders often dismissed discussions about politics and morality as tile wisdom. Now there is a VVD Prime Minister who starts a moral discussion himself. A discussion about the fat-me. That deserves a big compliment. It's about people who should be running our country, but who think most of all about themselves, about people in the financial world who think they can afford everything and about people on the streets who demand the most respect, but who can't afford it themselves. The fat-I exists. It has become a symbol of a change in public morality. This isn't falling out of the sky. The way in which we organise this country, the discussions we conduct here, including in this Chamber, and the example we set here also affect the way in which we interact in this country. The Prime Minister gets annoyed by the top of housing corporations and educational institutions and by administrators in the care sector. That's a refreshing sound for a leader of a party who's always stimulated all that gripping. I ask the Prime Minister what this new insight means for his politics, a neoliberal policy that primarily encourages people to think about themselves, to see others as competitors and to choose for their own benefit and the short term. I wholeheartedly agree with the Prime Minister when he says that bankers who want to enrich themselves should go abroad. In so doing, the Prime Minister also says toe-dokie to his own policy that has ensured that those bankers can go their way ungodly. The Prime Minister's words that you have to deal properly with police officers, teachers or nurses are taken from my heart. However, I do not understand why the Prime Minister himself is setting up such a fat me against others when he suspects people who are losing their jobs because they are reporting to the UWV, even though he knows very well that every unemployed person is obliged to report there. If the Prime Minister looks back on his speech now, doesn't he regret it because these drinks might just be on the drinks of the VVD, but they don't suit the Prime Minister? If you have a neoliberal policy for 25 years, you will eventually also have a neoliberal morality. Then people are really gonna believe that you have to think about yourself. Then the cement disappears between the stones and people lose faith in each other. Then it's gonna be fat-me the norm. However, I am very positive, because I see that many people are far beyond The Hague and that people see that a society cannot be built on distrust and selfishness, but on solidarity and trust. I also see a start being made. I see that our proposals to limit the grabbing at the top and strengthen the morale of the administration can count on more support. Proposals about bonuses, about externals, about income, proposals from the SP, are now also being supported by the VVD, but that is only a start. We will have to have a fundamental debate in this Chamber on the impact of the policies we are making on society and on the way in which we deal with each other here. We must have a fundamental debate on what society is and on what role politics have to play to make it possible to live together. We are not making morale here; that is a social process. However, politics plays an important role in this process. In any case, the Prime Minister's speech shows that he acknowledges that. But if we are an example, at the end of my speech I would like to draw attention to the behaviour of directors in ministries, ministers and educators. It can't have escaped the Prime Minister's notice that the fat-me is also housed in his own ministries. I refer to the leaks of the last few days and weeks, the big fat-me and the thick finger raised from the ministries to parliament. I would like a comment from the Prime Minister on that. I'll see the pieces tomorrow before 5:00 with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u20	Madam President. "Vision is like the elephant you take away the view." That's what our Prime Minister said in the H.J. in 2013. Shoe-reading. That's how we knew the Prime Minister until May of this year. Then the Prime Minister, as party leader of the VVD, gave a speech at his congress on the values that should underpin our society. A speech with vision. The VVD leader Rutte plays a large loan neighbor to the British Prime Minister David Cameron. David Cameron launched the Big Society concept five years ago; in the speech a bit woody translated as "big society." That's very ideological, but it's also unusual, because Cameron is the leader of a conservative party. Economically this party has been since Thatcher or very liberal, but the social values orientation of that party really is not. British Conservatives have for years been relying on a caring society, where, for example, creative forms of funding, social impact bonds, social fabric are brought back into society, and where social enterprises in the form of social enterprise are really given the opportunity to breathe new life into public services from the bottom up. Until recently, the VVD was absolutely not in favour of anything similar to that social enterprise. And British Conservatives want a society in which citizens are encouraged through a right to challenge to work together and make their neighbourhood better. In short, not the freedom of the individual, but responsibility for each other and for society is central. Our values don't smell like Brussels sprouts, they smell like freedom, said Mark Rutte, the party leader. So he didn't properly understand the origin of that Big Society idea. He's dealing with individual freedom thinking. It lifts the original Christian adage of caring for the neighbor on the shield and not the liberal freedom of the individual. As an action point in his speech, the Prime Minister mentioned the approach to top salaries. The cabinet has also made policy on this issue. Recently, the cabinet even came up with a French economist-inspired approach to large assets, a radical break with the tax system for assets we have had so far. My question to the Prime Minister is whether we should see this as an expression of the same debate on values he held in May. Is this indeed the other interpretation that the VVD now gives to standards and values? After a long push, the Prime Minister sent a letter to the Chamber this week about what he meant by his speech. I must say that the debate is about the fat me, but the letter sent by the Prime Minister was unfortunately flimsy. According to the CDA Group, a debate on values cannot be non-binding. This society lacks respect too often. Indecent is too often the norm. This country is a country with an education problem. We see too many examples of people, often young people, who approach others with indecency and disrespect. There are women who feel unsafe in the streets, because they are chased, faltered, or yelled at. Declarations often disappear in a large drawer, while enforcement should be the norm. What is the Prime Minister going to do to give these women the sense of security? Young people who glorify terrorist violence must be dealt with, because that too is contrary to basic decency. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take action and criminalise violence? Young people must learn respect, but this cabinet wipes out the social internship. Is the Cabinet prepared to re-introduce it? If the Prime Minister does not take such measures, the debate on values will continue. Then the elephant in the Chamber only gave birth to a mouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u21	It may be a strange little bridge to the question I have; from a mouse to personal freedom. The CDA group chairman said that liberal personal freedom would be at the expense of caring for each other. Not so long ago, a report was published by the Social and Cultural Planning Office stating that all this gloom is unjustified. People may no longer be members of hidden organisations, such as a church or a women's union, but they are very active in society. The conclusion of that report was that individualisation did not lead at all to less involvement with each other. It has precisely led you to do something based on your own individual choice rather than collective pressure. I would very much like to hear a response from the group chairman of the CDA to the conclusions of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u22	I'd say look around you. If Mrs Bergkamp thinks that the society we have is society as it should be, then she is right. I am convinced that we must move towards a society in which thought of the other is paramount; the demand for the freedom of the individual should be derived from it. We disagree on that. The respect and decency in society is not enough for me at the moment. Too often the individual then looks at the government: it has to take care of the values and standards. That's gotta be in society. And yes, I look at that quite differently from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u23	Of course there is much to improve in society, but I find it a little easy to blame the liberal, personal freedom and to say that it has been at the expense of caring for each other. When I see how many volunteers are active, how many carers there are and how many people are active in society, I am not so gloomy about that. The CDA group chairman certainly has a point when he says that respect for one another is a point of attention. In the past, this was much more the result of collective pressure, religion or ideology. We are the party that really likes it when it comes from the people themselves. That is why we consider education to be very important. Does Mr Buma disagree with me on this or does he agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u24	Let me say first of all that it is not a question of blaming someone, an ideology or whatever. Mrs Bergkamp emphasizes that the individual is so important and does something for someone else. However, when people are asked by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, for example, what is their greatest concern, they call the way we deal with each other. That's what I see in society. So that is definitely felt. My great concern is that we have built a society in which it is fat-I-I what can I achieve for myself in my environment? It has become the norm. And if there's anything left, we'll do something for someone else. My real belief is that you can only build a society when you start thinking from your responsibilities and not from your rights. You can think different about that. That is important in politics; that is why this debate is so good. You should also talk about that, but in my opinion that is the big difference between Mrs Bergkamp and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. I must confess that I felt like having this debate before the summer. I heard with interest the leader of the VVD address his party on an interesting theme: the fat-me. I myself quickly wrote a light-provocative piece in the NRC, in which I put the image of liberal man opposite that of social democracy. I had now fully prepared myself for a nice little debate with a bit of teasing about whether the Prime Minister's examples had been chosen correctly in the light of his appeal. The text is there, but I am a little lost in the lust for that debate. That's because all the little thick questions over the past few weeks and months, and certainly the last few days, have been flooded by that one all-determinating issue. The ultimate test, the real one big test, for our society, for all of us, for the Netherlands, but above all for Europe as a whole, is this enormous flow of refugees that is now moving through Europe. What are all these wonderful values, on which we all give up high, even in this room, justice, tolerance, freedom, humanity, worth if they are really tested, like now? Unfortunately, we all note that we are currently failing this test. The image of that little boy lying on the beach yesterday, an image of which I must admit that for the first time in my political life I have been awake, tells us an incredibly horrible truth. The most horrible truth is that we already know that this will not be the last image. We're already too late for that. I do not want to make this debate an exercise in impotence, but I have to admit that between all the emotions that go through me impotence certainly plays a role and sometimes even threatens to get the upper hand. We don't have to be powerless. We can't be powerless, either. The ultimate test for the fat-me is now taking place. Let us all try, now that it really matters, to put aside the beautiful, theoretical and sometimes very important reflections and to think about what to do now. I hear proposals from all sides. I see that the cabinet has set up a task force, I see proposals from my German colleagues, from the Italians, from the French; I see proposals from the CDA about the beginning of the flow all the way in Syria and what you could do there. I see proposals from the Christian Union about the end of the flow, namely here in the Netherlands, and what we citizens, as individuals, could do. There are many proposals for what could and should be done in the meantime, but one thing is clear: in the end, Europe will have to live up to those values that we are giving up on. This means first and foremost cooperation and above all urgency. So let me now use this debate to call on us, as well as the government as the executive, to do everything possible and not to rest a minute before we have found an answer to this huge issue. It is an illusion to think that we will solve it, that the flow of refugees will dry up, that peace and prosperity will suddenly descend elsewhere in the world. But let us now try to do something together, I see all of our colleagues coming up to make a contribution to this, hopefully, something that seems to be an answer. The first European consultation starts on Friday. We are focusing in this Chamber on next Friday, because then there seems to be a European Council, but next Friday there is also a real proposal being discussed that Italy, France and Germany have made for a common European asylum policy which will at least begin to stop the terrible injustice that is taking place in Europe. The real fat-I test is now taking place. Let's not fail again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u26	I understand your emotion. I have that too, and we have that with each other when you see that picture in the newspaper and that footage; it's horrible. Still, I'm wondering a few things. There's your prime minister. You're in the cabinet. You can do something about that. Only yesterday we managed to have a debate at all with this Prime Minister because after a long period of hesitation your party only admitted yesterday. I can't put that next to the words you're saying right now. I believe your emotion, absolutely, the interhumanity, but you are damn well in the position that you are in the cabinet and that you can exercise influence. You can come up with views in Europe but you can also see what we can do in the Netherlands. We really do not see enough of that. You are already seeing a lot of social unrest from people who say: we are tired of the passivity of the cabinet, we have to do something. Please respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u27	This debate does not lend itself to a discussion on state law, on who exactly is in the cabinet, but you are my colleague and that is our Prime Minister. Let us try to deal with it in this way. Arrangements of work are inimitable, but at least the debate in the Chamber is taking place, but we must have been able to take steps before that debate takes place. I'll take a look at the executive. I hope Mrs Bergkamp will do the same. One of the members of the cabinet will go to Luxembourg on Friday to take part in the meeting on actions that could be taken to address this issue. These are important actions. They do not go as far as Mr Buma proposes, but they go a long way in that direction. This is about making the region itself safer and providing aid to the refugee camps. I read proposals on education for the children there, because there must also be a perspective in the refugee camps, otherwise everyone will get into a boat with justice and reason, with terrible fate as a result. That kind of activity can be undertaken by all of us. We can now have the debate on this. We are doing so now, but I do not want to wait for the next debate or subsequent debates. There will be many more debates, but let us now all put these ideas together. Let us involve the political will and perhaps also the finances, the resources needed for this. Let's do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u28	It is indeed not a debate on the issue of refugees. Still, there's a difference. We see you come out on this subject a lot. You're in the media a lot. Now you are also talking about this subject in this Chamber, but you are in a special position. Your party is in the cabinet. You can speed up the process. Are you prepared to call all parties together in the very short term and ask them to make a proposal? This cabinet suppresses the move to get rid of that passivity. The cabinet looks the other way at crucial moments. The initiative lies with you to translate the words you are now saying into a concrete act. I am sure there are all kinds of parties here who would like to participate. Then I'll take the initiative with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u29	It's okay. Mrs Bergkamp may also take the initiative herself. I brought this up my way. I have already mentioned this before; Mrs Bergkamp referred to this. Before the summer, the Dutch Government, as one of the few governments, was prepared to join in the European Commission's proposal to provide 40 000 people who are now living on the coasts of Italy and Greece in inhuman conditions, that is to say, in Europe, to provide a decent life elsewhere in Europe, according to a just distribution formula. The Netherlands was one of the countries that wanted to cooperate. The Labour Party played a role in this. Now there are 160,000 refugees. In the meantime, Europe has disagreed. I have been as impotent as Mrs Bergkamp and many others, but we have also noticed that we have taken a few steps forward. Hollande and Merkel agree. This is always a relatively relevant axis in Europe. In the meantime, the Italians have joined. The Netherlands is still in favour of a fairer distribution of the people who are seeking a safe return, combined with an effective return of those who are not allowed to stay here. Of course, we are in favour of initiatives in the region that will at least make it a little safer and more humane. I welcome all the initiatives that contribute to this. Whoever takes the initiative will be my concern later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u30	I understand Mr Samsom's emotions. Yeah, I got it, too. My heart also weakened when I saw what is happening in Europe with refugee flows and with individual refugees. However, Mr Slob has requested a debate on the implications of the policy of the past 25 years for public morality in response to the Prime Minister's speech on the 'fat-I'. I don't know exactly what to do with this. Mr Samsom should have just proposed a debate on refugees. Then he would have had my support; no problem at all. However, due to the attitude of the Labour Party, it was almost impossible to hold a debate on this issue. That is what Mr Samsom is doing now, on another occasion, to entame that debate and to devote his entire speaking time to it. I agree with that, but would it not have made more sense if we had had a debate on refugees here? I say this in particular because Mr Samsom says that there are many initiatives to be expected from the government very soon. Those initiatives could have been laid down here, so we had something to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr Van Raak sounds a bit like the neighbor who's been telling us for ten minutes that she doesn't have time to come in. This debate can now take place. I confess to standing here with a rather heavy heart. I say in all objectivity that I had prepared a nice text for this meeting, but I could not pronounce it. I'm sorry. When I read it again, I thought, "This is irrelevant." Maybe it'll be terribly relevant again tomorrow. We all know how the dynamics of The Hague can turn things upside down, but at the moment it is not relevant and feels absolutely irrelevant. After all, there is only one overwhelming question, which is actually also about the fat-me. Mr Slob started his term with this issue for a reason. This is the overwhelming question at the moment. The debate on public morality, I have written something about it in the NRC, I would like to have one more time with Mr Van Raak, but he himself says that a debate on the refugee issue is more important at the moment. And then it shouldn't be about the political "who finds what and why doesn't he find what I find and why did he find it last year?" etc. That is the type of debate we have had here a great many times. No, it's just a try, an attempt to get together something that feeds the government. Here is the Prime Minister, who gets it all with him so that he can then get to work to make a positive contribution as the Netherlands to the solution of this issue. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u32	I also want to get away from "who said what when and why?', But I note that Mr Samsom now wants to hold a debate with fire which we all want to have, but which was impossible thanks to the attitude of the Labour Party. I also see this as a point of order. I'm really taking this seriously. If Mr Samsom says that we really need to debate refugees here, I fully understand that and I would like to support it, but I suggest that the President pauses for a moment and we start shaping the debate differently. Then we are just going to have a debate on the refugees rather than the extremely important subject as a kind of quickie in a completely different debate. The subject is far too important for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u33	I give it to Mr Van Raak that it is uncomfortable. It's not so much a debate as a debate. It feels more like a cri de coeur, but it does have a relationship with the subject we are discussing here. We are also engaged in the debate that we all want to have on what needs to be done in concrete terms, on the Dutch Government's commitment to the forthcoming JHA Council, in order to formulate it in the same way. That's a good thing. That's the way it's supposed to be. But this opportunity felt impenetrable. I have taken the opportunity to call on the government, in particular, but also on all of us, and perhaps also on ourselves, to do more than we have so far done. The image of that little boy has gone around the world for a reason. That's what hit us all. We all knew it, but anyone who knows anything about images knows how strong they can be. In my case, they were all-powerful. Then I think you're the first opportunity to stand here, in my case, to take this opportunity. If it is then an uncomfortable debate, it may be our smallest problem in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u34	Indeed, it is a cri de coeur, as Mr Samsom himself describes it. That's how I recognized it. I understand very well that he says that we can talk about values in abstracto very well, but that we also need to make it concrete. I think that will happen during the debate that has been announced on this subject. But isn't it also an example, to take the debate on public morality in general, where you don't always find the right answers with emotion and morality alone? How does Mr Samsom reflect on examples from the past, in which, from a good moral point of view, very generously single minors were granted a residence permit very quickly, and we were later shocked by the disruptive effects of this in Angola, for example? How does Mr Samsom link the good moral attitude to the effects on the whole of policy and society, for which we, as politicians, also have a responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u35	That is a very relevant dilemma for all of us. When we look at the flows of refugees, we all have different ideas that go through us. With me, the first is hospitality. People who are in need must offer you a safe passage. The second, as a politician but also as a human being, is that of concern about the enormous size. Do we have a job for everyone? Do we have a place for everyone? What should happen to the country where all these people come from? That dilemma at national level leads very quickly to a polarized debate between heartless people, the people without hearts who say "all borders close" - that is of course not a solution - and the headless people, the headless people, to translate it badly, who say: throw all boundaries open, that must be the case. Neither leads to a solution. We will all have to find a solution. My observation and appeal is that Europe is the level at which that solution can be found. 28 Member States cannot deal with this problem at national level. Not every man can do that for himself. You can already see that happening in all his sharpness. Europe is the scale on which we can solve the dilemma between heartless and headless by conducting generous asylum policies, and that must in any case be an effective and unambiguous asylum policy on the coasts of Europe. This includes effective return policies for those who cannot come here. That is how I would like to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u36	We do indeed have a separate debate on this subject on the agenda. In that debate we can discuss this in detail. It was just a matter of making the point that there is a moral side to it, and giving generous shelter to those who need it, but that we also have to have the courage to say no sometimes, even though we have very difficult emotions. Those two sides of the matter must be kept in mind in order to find a fair and convincing answer to this. But we agree on one thing: doing nothing is not an option. Europe must indeed come up with an authoritative answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u37	I share Mr Samsom's inconvenience, which does not mean that I believe we are having a meaningful debate here on the underlying values and the way in which the government and the Prime Minister deal with them. I believe that we should continue to do so, and I do not think that we should change this debate now. I would like to put a very specific question to Mr Samsom on this point. Even before the summer, during the debate on the refugee issue and the European debate on this issue, I suggested that we start working with a leading group within Europe, because we cannot wait any longer and can no longer let obstacles within the European community frustrate this policy. The cabinet said no to that at the time, and that is why it has become bogged down, even though you saw this problem coming very big at the time. Does Mr Samsom agree with me that we should now focus on making agreements with a coalition of European countries that really want to stick their necks out and that we should not let the slowest Member State determine our policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u38	That too is an important dilemma that already played before the summer. I agree with the cabinet that you shouldn't make such a leap too easy. Solidarity must also be experienced with each other, and if you too easily let the freeriders, those who do not want it, then ultimately solidarity in Europe no longer represents anything. So we should not go too easily towards leading group formation. You turned out to be more visionary than you might have thought yourself, or maybe you thought yourself already, but nevertheless, you can already see that leading group. Italy, France and Germany sent such a letter yesterday. They have not announced that they are a leading group, because they too are reluctant for exactly the same reason why the Dutch government is. You can see, of course, that a number of countries are sticking their necks out. I was pleased that at least before the summer, the Netherlands belonged to those countries that wanted to join in a European formula for the distribution of refugees across this beautiful continent. It still is. I see more countries joining. I do not know whether there will be a leading group and on what subject exactly that will be. Time will tell that, but it remains a dilemma that you can never say too easily: "Oh, Latvia does not want to participate. You know what? Then we'll do it nicely without you." That is not possible, because then there will be nothing left of European solidarity. One of the values on which we give up so much in the thick-me debate is solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u39	This is the hour of truth about the fat-me. Can we get past the dilemma that everyone has to be involved in? Do we accept our responsibility with those who, like us, want to assume their responsibilities? I can only appeal to Mr Samsom and through him to the Prime Minister that this must be the commitment to be able to act quickly. If necessary, we should then cross the line of Latvia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u40	This is a classic dilemma. Someone once said, "If you're in a hurry, you have to go alone. If you want to get far, you have to go all together." We're in a hurry now to get very far. Now we have the question of how to do it. I don't have an answer to that. The Prime Minister is in a privileged position to sit at a European table with his 27 colleagues at some point. He can then look them in the eye and decide with them. We must encourage him to do so, and I shall do so with you and let him make his decision in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u41	First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your contribution. It comes from the heart and I think it is a big deal when it comes to a debate about the fat-me. Indeed, that's what you're supposed to translate into the themes of our time, and this is the biggest subject there is. My heart also ripped with that of many, both in the Netherlands and abroad, when we saw that photo yesterday. It was a cri du coeur of yours: we really need to act now, something must be done! I appreciate that, but that does mean that we must succeed together, not just at European level. We all know that this problem occurs in different places. It starts in Syria, then it falls down in the surrounding countries, where most refugees go, then you have the refugees who go to Europe, then you have the European responsibility and ultimately our Dutch responsibility. I'm going to that second layer, that of the surrounding countries. That's where most of the refugees are. Up to two times the food programmes have simply been reversed there because there was no money left. Up to two times, people saw what they got every day, falling enormously. That is one of the reasons why many people have actually run off. They felt abandoned by the world. This means that we will also have to be generous in this respect and contribute to the world food programme and reception in that region. Are you prepared not to wait very long, but to seek support in the Chamber to instruct the cabinet to do so? It is not possible for us to allow this to happen again or for us to get back to the slow twitching that we have always had on this subject over the past few years. We must act now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u42	This is taken from my heart. I think this is one of the things the cabinet could and should do as far as I am concerned: strengthen initiatives aimed at providing perspective in the region. That goes beyond food, but food is already a problem at the moment. Then you can see how far we are from a real solution. I would like to take this back a little bit to Mr Grashoff's question: that a European approach is so much more effective here than 'everyone else for themselves' that I have a great preference for this European approach. If I would then choose a route, I would like to ask the Cabinet to promote and achieve its position on this at European level; let us assume that this effort is the same as yours and mine, namely that we need to make much more effort in the region. There is even a European budget. Perhaps we can set different priorities at European level, as we sometimes do in the Netherlands. This is kind of important! So let us see how far we can get in there. I think that would be the first route. Of course, you can still fall back on the possibility of reaching out as a country alone, because you do not want to remain unemployed. I say honestly that I think that is an inappropriate approach, but perhaps that is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u43	If we put aside a little bit, there will indeed be generosity to also contribute from the Netherlands to reception in the region through Europe. I think that sometimes this is very complicated because in Europe everyone is waiting for someone else, so nothing happens for months. We have seen a report this week that shows that Dutch NGOs are working very effectively. We know that the UNHCR is also doing very well in this area. However we dress it up, I understand you very well: you give the cabinet to the Prime Minister, who is also present here, the mandate to contribute substantially to reception in the region on Prince's Day in the budgets that are to come. I think that's what we're doing. If I've misunderstood you, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u44	You're an agile politician! You will immediately translate the second route to Tuesday's budget in one and a half weeks. Whether it can be done so quickly... By the way, initiatives have already been announced and taken by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I would particularly like to instruct the government to increase the funds in Europe and, of course, to contribute to them, but in that order. Then you are struggling with exactly the same dilemma as Mr Grashoff pointed out to me, but also to yourself: if you sprint off with two good countries now, it will remain with those two good countries and cut off the rest. I also feel it is our responsibility to break through the thick me of 28 small countries and become a fat us of a Europe that can work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. It was on a VVD-conference, but that doesn't matter: there's only one Mark Rutte. He said that we must stand up to the great fat-Imentality of people in our country, against asshole and selfishness. That commitment is taken from the heart if we can see selfishness at a small level as selfishness of people and individuals, and in large numbers, as selfishness of groups and countries. I am referring to the debate we have just had on refugees. It is good that the Prime Minister raises this issue. However, the fat-I of the Prime Minister's story is very thin and lacks the important part of credibility. With fat-I think of people who go for self-interest, self-interest and self-interest, without respect for the feelings and needs of others, without taking responsibility for society and without reflection on their own behaviour. Trouble is someone else's fault. I am thinking of people who arrange exorbitant salaries and bonuses for themselves, of assholes who attack paramedics and racist insults in social media. The Prime Minister also thought of something completely different. He thought of people who have become unemployed and who exercise their legal right to benefit. That's almost the worst example he could have chosen. Because, actually, it seems to me to be the example of a fat-me. A well-paid Prime Minister, who takes the measure of others, knowing that if he were to be sent home by parliament today, he would be entitled from tomorrow to watch money that he would also need, without having to join a counter. Or take the example of discrimination against immigrants. The Prime Minister says: 'Too bad, that happens, then you have to fight a little harder.' Discrimination in the labour market is a major social problem. We know that problem, and we know that it is partly because of this that we have unimaginably high youth unemployment among immigrant young people, much higher than among native young people. The Prime Minister must do something about this rather than placing responsibility on those who suffer from it. It's like there's two Dutch. One Netherlands is that of Prime Minister Rutte, in which everyone is smart, promising and prosperous and no one has to appeal to others, and in which bad luck is a choice and therefore also your own fault. The other Netherlands is the real, real Netherlands in which not everyone gets windy and in which, if necessary, we should be able to rely on each other and on the government, in which people with bad luck are not a cost, but a neighborhood or fellow countryman, a fellow man. In this non-everyday debate, that actually calls for reflection. That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. How does he look back on his statement about people without work, about young people with that other last name, or about his statement that jihadgoers can die better in Syria than they would be tried here under the rule of law? Are these statements not a breeding ground for unbridled selfishness? Does that set a good example to the Prime Minister? And how does he look back on aspects of what I call 'typically liberal policy', on the growing income disparities, on further deregulation and uncontrolled market forces? Isn't that the breeding ground for the bonus culture appointed by the Prime Minister and the exorbitant top salaries? Is it not also largely due to a policy that placed too much individual freedom at the heart of the extreme in relation to collective responsibility? Is the Liberal Prime Minister allowed to question liberalism? GroenLinks wants the Prime Minister to work to make the Netherlands an inclusive society, in which not only the economy counts, but in which the Prime Minister stands up for those who are discriminated against and the unemployed rather than taking them into account, and in which the right of the strongest and the smartest applies, but the power of all of us as a collective. The Prime Minister is for and of all Dutch. This means that he must weigh his words and his actions carefully, both as an individual and as a prime minister in this cabinet. Otherwise he loses his credibility and is actually nothing more than the foreman of the e.g. rich and right-wing Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u46	Madam President. The Prime Minister recently marched with the Air Mobile Brigade, I saw. He was right to be proud of our marines. They go on where others stop. That's what they do to each other. In the heat of the battle, they have to be able to count on each other, and that only works because they're not just looking at a few rules, but going beyond that. Common values and standards play an important role in this. This also applies to society as a whole. That is why I was very positive and enthusiastic about the moral appeal of our Prime Minister in the speech we are discussing today. Justice and morality can't live without each other. Rules of law are often no more than a minimum standard. A public morality is also developing through the courage of people in society, ministers and MPs to also take a stand on good and evil, even when it comes to matters that are in themselves within the limits of law. It is too easy to say: it is legitimate, so I keep my mouth shut about it. That is why I find these moral calls not easy or cheap, but valuable and even necessary, to strengthen public morality. It is the deep conviction of the SGP that the Creator's good commandments are beneficial to every human being. Love God above all else and love the other as yourself, so Christ summarizes those commandments. These are therefore indicators for good relations in our society. If we follow those signs, justice and well-being will flourish. Choosing for your own roads often means crashing. Those are the values and standards we stand for and express. For us, they determine the contribution to legislative proposals as well as the calls you make when it comes to how you interact with each other in society. The fact that hardworking Netherlands often gets a plume from the Prime Minister is fine. Those plumes are earned, but life is more than making money. It's also looking after Grandpa in the nursing home. It is also offering a warm nest to growing children in the family, the countless and invisible hours of care to a neighbor. Do all these people get the support and appreciation they deserve? That often turns out to be too thin, too weakly developed. Then again the hard money wins from that important value of caring for each other. Another example. Let me zoom in on children, vulnerable values. Why can't we hear more about children who are at risk of adultery and infidelity? Also such an uncomfortable subject, because it's all getting close. But it is a social reality that many children have been injured and got into trouble. I like to see that there is a stronger sound coming from society itself and that thanks to crowdfunding billboards are currently hanging along the highways with the message to choose loyalty. I'll give you a third topic. What about the protection of unborn children? Isn't this life in the bud worth blossoming? Anyone who says "private matter, we should not talk too much about it in politics," under the guise of the neutral state, actually chooses the position that the unborn child is not a person. That is also a moral position, but what is it based on? It often remains deafeningly silent about that. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. A moral debate is valuable. Policy debates on major issues of today always have a moral dimension. Think, for example, of the debate on refugees to Europe, on which we are having a debate next week. As you can see, in my text I had already dealt with the refugees. I thought, "I can try to do one thing and not leave the other." In many moral debates, by the way, there is a wait for someone else to do it, that is to say, the fat-you. In the book by Joris Luyendijk about banker mentality you also find that. A lot of people are indignant about that. They count themselves among the group of people whose standard sense is nothing wrong. Let me conclude with a biblical wisdom: anyone who is disturbed by the splinter in another's eye, should not forget the beam in his own eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. A few months ago, during the spring VVD Congress, Prime Minister Rutte spoke of fat-headed people. This made him yet another echo of the Labour Party, because as early as 2007, Diederik Samsom talked about exactly the same fat-me. Between Rutte and Samsom, it's always a big shot. People who lost their jobs and always paid a decent WW premium were kicked by Prime Minister Rutte. They were accused of reporting to the UVW, whereas that is, in any case, a legal obligation. So that is at least a curious remark. Furthermore, it would adorn the VVD-premier to blow a little less high off the tower. After all, if there is one party where the fat-I am celebrating, then it is the VVD. Let me give you a few examples: declaring bottles of wine of hundreds of euros, collecting half a million subsidies for a castle, illegal water pumps, official corruption, hemp cultivation, mortgage fraud, side jobs champions in the First Chamber, money laundering. Precisely at the VVD, decency is often a long way to go. My advice is that the Prime Minister should sing a little lower in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. It was a brave move by our Prime Minister. Stand by: in a room full of VVDs, keep a story about top salaries, grab behaviour, fraud and many more uplifting things. Did the Prime Minister want to address his party mates or society? I'd like to get an answer to this question. Isn't it true that the Prime Minister's story feeds the fat-me right? No matter how you turn it, his story is still about the law of the strongest. Everyone has equal opportunities, but if it doesn't work, it's their own fault, big bump. That's not our ideal image. In the Netherlands of D66 each individual gets all the space to develop and take initiative. This is done on its own merits on the basis of equal opportunities, but anyone who stumbles will be helped. In the Netherlands of D66 the individual gets as much freedom as possible, but always with responsibility for the fate of others and for the community. We are not aiming for the society that this Liberal Prime Minister has in mind, according to his statements. In that society, people have to fight in the labour market. Take immigrant kids. I know that my colleague Tanja Jadnansing is working very actively for those young people in the labour market. However, you can see that these young people have to get bigger in order to get their share. The government actually says good luck, but don't come knocking if you don't get out. If you have that liberal image of society, the image of a night watchman's state in which people should fight it out among themselves, don't you just get the fat-I-mentality in control? That is my question to the Prime Minister. Again, it is presidential that the Prime Minister reflects on society, but it also includes a follow-up. Otherwise, it's just a test balloon. To be honest, it seems to me that the Prime Minister's economical note is the key to this. What does the Prime Minister want? What is critical is that the Prime Minister is, as it were, teaching others the lesson, even though he himself is not acting on it. By the way, that is also a thick-eyed symptom. We have just talked about the refugee problem. This is also an important topical issue for D66 at the moment. It's one of the biggest issues of our time, but this cabinet doesn't give at home. People and children seek a safe hiding place to flee hatred and the most horrible forms of violence. And what a mess is being poured out through social media and other channels! It's a magnification of the fat-me. And what does the Prime Minister do? He's setting up an interdepartmental working group to conduct that investigation. Well, then you do. This is the fat-me in optima forma: look away, don't take responsibility because otherwise it might be at the expense of a few right-wing voters, let your party interest go for everything. "Let others take the lead." We also heard it in the Interrupt debate with the PvdA leader: let Europe do it. Imagine taking a position that doesn't make you popular. Isn't the reverse an example of fat-me? Then suddenly you have to row against the current and you don't get out with your jovial smile. I call on the Prime Minister to take an example from other leaders in the world. Look at Merkel, Hollande and Cameron. They do not wait for others to pick up the glove. I was very impressed with Merkel myself. She instructed her driver to drive north, went there to talk to people and told her story. She was cheered off, but she stood for the values "solidarity" and "humanity." That's the leadership people deserve. The Netherlands is entitled to the binding capacity of the Prime Minister. I ask him when he goes to Ter Apel, or to Calais. I come to the heart of the matter: can a Prime Minister, without obligation, but what about important social values? We don't think so. Set an example, pronounce yourself, even if it may cost you some popularity. The refugee problem, as well as climate change and the 620,000 unemployed, who are still being served with a small note: there are plenty of opportunities for the Prime Minister to show his binding capacity to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. At a party meeting, the Prime Minister gives a speech on values and standards, while the whole of the Netherlands, I'm talking about everyone, and he still gets €1,000 from him. There wouldn't be a penny left for Greece, but another 5 billion has been deposited. This debate, when the Netherlands is under the greatest pressure over the last 75 years, makes no sense at all. That's why I'm gonna do other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr. Chairman. Let me be a part of it, because it is an important subject that we are discussing today. Our Prime Minister is right to point out that I too often rule in the Netherlands. He's annoyed by the filth and selfishness in our country. Those are nice words. We at DENK are bothered by that, too. The majority of the Netherlands, three quarters of the Dutch, also gets annoyed by the thick-Imentality, according to a poll today. But how serious are the Prime Minister's words actually to take? To what extent does he add the deed to the word? Talks don't fill holes. Instead of pointing proudly at society, the Prime Minister should put his hand into his own bosom. What's the fat-me doing anyway? The fat-I cry out of electoral importance "not a penny more to Greece!', while one in three children there live in poverty. I ask the Prime Minister: what about solidarity? The fat-I say numbly to people who are discriminated against that they just have to fight, while the number of discrimination incidents increases. I ask the Prime Minister: what about equality in our society? The fat-I is condemned by the Haarlem court for inciting racism and then says it's really nice that it's time to change the law. The fat-I say that boat refugees are an African problem, while the West, and with it our country, is sucking up Africa with multinationals. The fat-I give at a VVD congress to be fun on the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, while research shows that there is great poverty in the Kingdom. DENK stands for a we-mentality instead of a I-mentality, for an inclusive and inclusive Netherlands based on tolerance, acceptance and trust. Unfortunately, confidence in us, in politics, is not a good thing. We can now fill this Chamber with investigations on this matter. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister, in view of the fact that I have just been listed on the subject, to what extent he thinks he himself is responsible for the lack of public confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr. Chairman. If I let it work on me, I conclude: what a non-debate. Actually, it's all old politics. The value of our plenary debate lies in the task of the House of Representatives to control the government in the performance of public authority. Are we controlling the government now? Will the Netherlands be better governed? Will urgent humanitarian situations, as Mr Samsom has said, be resolved? This debate is accidentally called 'the debate on the Prime Minister's view'. However, I think it was Mr Rutte's views, a prominent speaker at a VVD congress. Personal views of people, including ministers, are fine for the public debate. In fact, the core value of liberal politics is freedom of expression. However, this entirely justified moral debate must be conducted publicly and with society outside this Chamber, as Mr Samsom did in his excellent opinion article in NRC Handelsblad, for example. That certainly wasn't gratuitous. I myself would also like to engage with everyone in the liberal debate on this subject, in two weeks' time at the 50PlusBeurs in Utrecht. That's the place, not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. This week I read in the newspaper a report about a teacher who was addressed in the schoolyard by two parents. She took these parents to a classroom and was threatened and abused by them. I was really bewildered. It happens all the time when I read as the newspaper, hear news or see things on the street, I think: Can this happen? Sometimes it's obvious. Then there's a law breaking and then you can work with it. The police can do something. Fortunately, in this case too, although this incident will mean that the teacher is still at home for a long time and will have a major impact on the school. Sometimes it's not about a law that's been broken, about a rule, or about something that's not right, but about behavior. For example, someone on the tram does not stand up for someone who is obviously pregnant. Or on Saturday morning, parents are standing by the football field screaming their frustration of the whole week. Or that row of motorists in the running rain while a lonely cyclist wants to cross without a rainsuit. Bummer of predicament and assholeness, on the streets, at school, at work and at the government. This isn't right for us. Our culture is one of equality and freedom. We've seen that over the centuries. Our leaders stood side by side with farmers, citizens and outsiders in the fight against the washing water. They couldn't do it alone. Once again, we must stand side by side in tackling the problems of our times. The government is not the solution to all problems. In fact, too big a government sucks all the oxygen out of society and makes people small and dependent. Yes: we need a strong government, a government for those issues that we cannot deal with alone, for example in the areas of security, justice and education. However, we are also looking above all at society for all those things that people are very good at themselves and with which they are working themselves. With a law, you can't control everything. I remember working with social services a long time ago. People were then divided into four categories, depending on their distance from the labour market. I talked to a gentleman there who filed a complaint after a complaint, to find out what his story was behind it. It was said to him: well, you are 62 years old and you have heart problems; you are no longer able to work and you are in phase 4, with the furthest distance from the labour market. He was very angry and sad about that, because he wanted to work so badly. Because that's what we did then: we wrote people off. We don't do that anymore. We're looking at what people can do. But we still have a lot to do. We have done a lot in recent years, but we still have a big agenda. There's a connection between assholes on the street and assholes at the conference table. If you have a top position in the government, you have to realize that your salary has been paid by all people in the Netherlands. If as a service car you have a Maserati with a double exhaust and you know that it has been paid from the rental income of people with a minimum wage, then you have to take another car. Still, I don't want to just drop out. I want to make an optimistic story here. Yes, there is injustice. No, the government can't take care of everything. People who work themselves do things that are more beautiful than the government can ever imagine for them. It's already happening. I call the ALS icebucket challenge that went over the world last year, or Michelle Obama who started the campaign #BringBackOurGirls. Closer you have the entrepreneur who gives someone with a disability the chance for a job in his company. On the tram someone says "get your feet off the couch," knowing that his neighbor supports him. Piet Molenaar lives in my own village. He's a former driving instructor, and he's gotten into a scooter because of a muscle disease. He's helping people who get one of those things from the city and don't know what to do with it. I had him on the phone last week. He had just updated his website with new instruction videos. There are so many pioneers in our country. There are so many people who don't let their shoulders hang on to a problem, but put their shoulders on it. Piet Molenaar and all those other people are the opposite of the big fat-me. What you pay attention to, it grows. So I prefer to look at the people who put their shoulders under it. Not to put the head in the sand, because wrong behavior we tackle, but to make sure that the oxygen goes to those people who make the Netherlands what it is. We are a country of nearly 17 million people. The song may be a bit less enjoyable with a syllable more, but you still leave people in their value and you only write them those laws that are really needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u53	Those are great examples. That's good, because very nice things happen in society. Sometimes they happen in silence. It is also good to lift some and give some words to it. Sometimes you have to give oxygen to society. In practice, we notice that citizens sometimes see the government as a major nuisance. Rules sometimes prevent them from taking up that responsibility. In my own contribution, I mentioned health and energy cooperatives as an example. However, think also of carers who often experience problems. What is the space at the VVD to look at this with each other and to offer space in places where there are still many obstacles?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u54	That room's here. With the decentralisations we have given the municipalities and also the people themselves more room to do things. This also means that we can look at these issues much more flexibly. However, often a demand for renewal is also a hidden demand for public support. The VVD is traditionally critical of this, as I explained. We see that there are also people who work themselves when they see a problem, rather than looking at the government. They can find the VVD by their side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u55	This debate will come to an end in an hour or two, but it will be followed up in all kinds of other places, because these are subjects that come back everywhere. I'm just gonna take out the care and energy cooperatives. There we see all kinds of obstacles. That's not always about money, but sometimes just about regulation. This sometimes gives people and citizens who want something an impotent feeling, because the government actually prevents them from taking their responsibilities. Can I understand Mrs Van Ark in such a way that she is prepared to look at that with us? Is she prepared to see what we can do to deliver that oxygen, which she rightly points out, to society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u56	What I promise is that we will also apply our way of looking at society and the way in which we weigh up the issues mentioned by Mr Slob. I am now going too far to say on specific subjects that we are going to do something or not. However, I agree that we will look at proposals in the light of the values I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u57	There's a lot of power in society. That's right. Mrs Van Ark has listed this. I can agree with that. That was a selection of good examples. But that is where my approval ends. In my view, the government also has the role to stimulate, facilitate and hunt things, so that the strength of society increases. I listened very fascinatedly to Mr Samsom's story today. He said, "I feel powerless right now." That is what I want to relate to the refugee issue. Why are you unable to hold a reasonable debate on a number of important issues that keep the Netherlands awake at the moment? On Tuesday it was the VVD that refused a parliamentary debate on the flow of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u58	By way of a detour, where I have the need to respond to it in substance, I now come to the question of whether or not I support a debate in the Chamber. In fact, I think that is a very wrong question. Let me say this about it. We are going to debate a number of times in this House about the extremely difficult issue before us. It is also right that this is going to happen several times. When I was watching my iPad last night and I saw that picture, I involuntarily looked at the pictures on the wall where my now older daughters stood and thought: they were also so young. It just hurt. I can just say it hurt like hell. That gives me the conviction that we will have to prevent this. I don't want any more boys getting on a boat like that. I don't want any more families drowning like that. I would like to have the debate here in the Chamber. My colleagues also want to have that debate. Our commitment to this debate is to remove the magnet of the European asylum procedure, to accept people only in the region and to deal with their asylum applications there. That is the way in which we are in it, driven by the fact that I do not want people to feel the urgency or the need to get into such a horrible boat made by smugglers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u59	That is another story that I can broadly agree with. But it is also about the task I have at least as a Member of Parliament, and that is to denounce problems and ensure that solutions are put in place that are supported. When I listen to Mrs Van Ark's speech, it is about the strength of society, but as far as I am concerned, she too easily ignores her own role as a Member of Parliament, as a Member of Parliament. I would like to call on the VVD, through this debate, through this interruption, not to allow Mr Samsom to stand idly by, but to work on it and to do something about it. That is possible now, because the VVD is the largest party in the Netherlands and the VVD has that responsibility. Don't walk away from that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u60	The VVD has never run away from responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u61	I did not see Mrs Van Ark take part in the debate on the refugee issue. I was sorry to hear that. I would like to take this opportunity to ask her whether she really wants to get out of the starting blocks with a leading group in Europe, if necessary, instead of waiting and holding us hostage again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u62	I said what I just said about it. Our ideas on this in recent months have been known and repeated. I have also said the necessary things in the debate on the interruptions just now. For now, I'd like to leave it at that. There are a number of debates with the trade directors and the Prime Minister on the agenda. I think it would be a good idea to discuss this difficult subject further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u63	I can just hear a yes or no on a specific question. Is Mrs Van Ark willing to embrace that: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u64	This is not the place to do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u65	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I see the Prime Minister is ready to put his teeth in the answer. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. What a nice debate! I am going to try to provide some of the comments and reflections that I have made. I am very pleased that we are having this debate together. However, before I come to the more specific questions, let me make a few preliminary remarks. I gave that speech on the basis of the absolute conviction that politics is primarily about values. Those values are actually below all the democratic choices we make here, whether in the Lower House, the Upper House or in the Trêveszaal. That is where the common basis lies: the question of how we want to set up our country and how we are then in the country together. This also concerns the question of what is normal, what is normal behavior and what norming is associated with it. This conclusion can also be drawn from the different contributions: values include behavior. Those two go together and you can't separate them. If I try to sum it up in the simplest form, then you could say that my speech in May was actually about two things. Firstly, on the fact that values such as tolerance, freedom, solidarity and responsibility are not exclusively liberal, religious or social-democratic, not exclusively left or right, but that they are, at the very heart of my speech, all of us. Secondly, about the fact that when you talk about shared values, you also talk about shared responsibility. Anyone who puts me, the self-interest, above all else, I have named that with the term "fat-I' and "fat-I' syndrome', which restricts the freedom of others and at the same time puts pressure on collective achievements. So you can talk to each other about that. And yes, there is also a role for the government, because when you talk about matters such as public order, security and the integrity of public administration, there is a direct task for the government. Before I go into some of the comments that have been made, I would like to point out for whom I actually gave that speech. This is in line with the input of some of you, for example with Mrs Van Ark's fine contribution. My speech focused on the many millions, literally millions of people in this country who are contributing every day to their own efforts, but who are also ready for other people who need them; so they are not trying to improve or enrich themselves at the expense of others. I think it is important that these people, this great silent majority, know that we are on their side. Even if, in every incident, we may not immediately wave a new bill or a protocol or new legislation or bans, we are on their side. So people should also know that the Cabinet and the Chambers feel the same anger or anger about gray behaviour, fraud, selfishness, assholeness, indecentness or ultra-short fuse. They may know that we are pulling on the same side of the rope, but we must name it. The reality is simply that every big fat me is unfortunately in a social environment in which his or her behaviour is apparently accepted, or perhaps even encouraged. By making it clear what is normal for us and what is not normal for us, we can do something about it. That's my firm conviction. Solve all the problems with that, I ask you to conclude my introduction. No, not that, but I am convinced that all these problems cannot necessarily be solved by means of legislation or protocols. Sometimes, but they can be solved mostly by talking to each other about what we normally think. Politics must sometimes help to set standards, but this must also be done in society. Normal behavior is what people can expect from each other. So that's also the normal behavior you have to talk to each other about in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u67	The Prime Minister says who the speech was addressed to. He spoke to his directors, but over their heads he spoke in the direction of millions of Dutchmen who he wanted to put his heart under his belt by saying: we are on your side. He addressed the people who work hard and you name it. I liked it, but also Mr Samsom, because it was in his article that the Prime Minister mainly addressed the working Netherlands. He talked about the values of working Netherlands. As a result, it seemed that many people who do not belong to the Netherlands because, for example, they are no longer able to work or have other problems, were put a bit off. That may be a misunderstanding, so I am actually giving you the space to make it clear to these people: you too belong and we will support you where necessary, even when it comes to the fight against the fat me, which is precisely these people, the non-working part of the Netherlands, which cannot always take care of itself, often has so much to do with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u68	Everything I do, whether it's at a VVD congress or here in this room, but also why I'm in politics, is for hardworking Netherlands. Hardworking Netherlands, of course, are the people who work hard or the people who, after a lifetime of hard work, rightly enjoy a very earned pension. They are also people who would very much like to work, but who are completely out of their debt, because they are unemployed, and who are doing everything they can to get back to work. They must also know that they find us on their side, because we also consider that important. In recent weeks, I have talked about economic recovery. Then I always hear the annoyance in my voice saying that the economy is better, but that we have more than 600,000 unemployed, 150 000 more than before the crisis. There are still a lot of people who would love to get to work, but who can't. Those people could know me on their side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u69	Nevertheless, I have noticed from the reactions that came to your speech, both in the media and in people who just talked about it, that people who have never been able to work hard because of circumstances, sometimes because of a limitation they have had their whole life, had the impression that it wasn't about them. They therefore felt somewhat misunderstood, because they are also people who need the support of the government very much. I want to get a specific group out of it. You also made comments about people looking for work. It seemed that they were taking a little advantage of our social services when they had to get to work as quickly as possible, and they wouldn't want to. Do you regret these remarks, or would you like to explain them a little further? That's pretty harsh on this group. You mentioned the number: more than 600,000 people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u70	What bugs me is that in that part of my speech the impression has lingered that I object to someone applying for benefits. I have no objection to that. You do have to apply for benefits if you're going to be unemployed. That's the way it is. What I was concerned with in that part of my speech is not that people are applying for benefits, because fortunately we in the Netherlands have decent social security for people who are in trouble. That could happen to all of us. What I was talking about in that part of the speech is, what mindset do you do that with? The vast majority of people without work want nothing more than to get back to work as soon as possible, and in the meantime they are fully entitled to decent benefits. It's the mindset that matters to me. I object to people losing a job, or not having a job, and focus all their energy on that benefit alone. I object to that, so I am on the side of people who rightly have benefits but want to get back to work. I am sorry that I gave the impression in that speech, by being too short-sighted, that I would object to the fact that people are applying for benefits. Not at all. My point was that there is an obligation against it, which feels mostly happy. This benefit should be opposed to it, and that is the basis under our social security system, that you are doing everything you can to get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u71	The Prime Minister is upset that this image was created. I like that. I would actually find it even better if the Prime Minister were to apologize to those people who feel inadequate. The Prime Minister stands for hardworking Netherlands. I do, but I also stand for people who want to work hard. There are a lot of Dutch people who have lost their jobs thanks to the government's policy, such as people in home care orzzp'ers in construction. A lot of people want nothing but work. They're gonna bust their ass, but they can't get to work. Many of these people have seen the Prime Minister's speech as an insult. The Prime Minister says he hates it. Is he willing to tell those people that he is also their prime minister and to apologize?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u72	I don't know if we're gonna get much better at apologizing. I'm here to explain what I meant by that passage. The impression has perhaps been given that I object to someone applying for benefits. No, it's not, but it's the mindset that matters to me. The mindset must be that you do everything you can to get back to work as quickly as possible and that you know the government, this government, me and everyone in this room on your side. It is not a question of applying for that benefit, but of focusing energy on it: getting back on your feet as soon as possible. I think we agree on this in the Netherlands. Mr Slob just mentioned people who have a disability. Of course our respect goes to them. A person may have a limitation which may not allow him or her to work the full working week or encounter certain problems in his or her work. Maybe someone can't work at all because he or she is not able to fill a full job because of a physical or mental weakness or illness. Then he knows if she doesn't know we're all here on his or her side? Only a strong social security system for this has always been a fight for all of us; the liberals have begun to do so, requiring solidarity and acceptance that, if it is possible at all, you do everything in your power to stand on your own feet again. That is my point in the speech. I am convinced that this is ultimately the best thing for the people themselves. If it really doesn't work out, it won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u73	It's about the mindset. I fully agree with the Prime Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u74	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u75	The Prime Minister has appealed to the individual. He has disturbed himself by the fact that people walk too fast to the UWV, knowing that people are obliged to do so. I wonder what's going on with the Prime Minister's mindset. A government, a prime minister, breaks down so many provisions for these people. They make it so much harder for these people to get to work. Social workshops are closed and benefits and counselling are cut so hard. Things that we arrange with each other in this society, common facilities that also organise a community, are being broken down so badly. Can the Prime Minister understand that these people don't understand the Prime Minister's mindset?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u76	What I regret is this. We are having a debate here and Mr Van Raak and I are doing the same. There is a nice exchange of thoughts on what is normal in a society and what behavior is associated with it. I understand that Mr Van Raak draws his views on cabinet policy; I do not blame him for that. That then forces me to at least explain in two sentences that we are implementing these reforms precisely in order to secure these provisions, which are so important, for the future. It is my belief that, if we had not done so, those provisions would disappear in the long term because of their pricelessness and the loss of social and social support. That is exactly why this coalition is carrying out all these reforms: to make them future-proof again. To the specific question about going to UWV for a benefit, I have just answered: that is of course not my objection. My point is precisely in the question of which mindset you will then proceed with to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u77	In any case, the Prime Minister distanced himself from the wording he used on people who are entitled to benefits. Here is always the question of whether you should apologize or not. I would like to leave that to the Prime Minister himself, but I do think it is important for him to explain this, not here in the Chamber, but above all to society. I don't know how he does that, but I'd like to call him to that. Can the Prime Minister imagine that there is also work that is extremely important and that by chance is not paid work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u78	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u79	Can the Prime Minister therefore imagine that this is often done by people who have benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u80	Perhaps in return for the benefit, but not as an alternative to a paid job with a benefit. I'd be against that. May I put it another way, with a little more explanation? For the record, I don't want to force anyone to accept a job. If someone chooses not to work, that's their free choice. I have an opinion on that. I think working is an opportunity to develop yourself and get social contacts. It is much more than just an income, but I am not obliging anyone in the Netherlands to get to work. Except because you don't have a job, you rely on the collective through a benefit. Then I think that as a society you can also ask someone to get out of that situation as soon as possible. Everyone is, of course, free to do, without recourse to society by means of a benefit, work that does not generate money and makes that choice. That can also be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u81	It is precisely the question of how you deal with unpaid work for people in benefits. There are over 600,000 unemployed, there are 100,000 vacancies. We're a long way from here. You and I know people who are unemployed and who apply for jobs that aren't there. We also know that there are extremely restrictive conditions throughout the system that make it almost impossible for people to actually count volunteering and family care and to feel the appreciation not only for that but also for public policy. By offering their space they can also be helped to get out of that benefit because they are busy and remain. These are people who feel they have to send a letter of application after an application, are not appreciated in the unpaid work they do and in that way are actually kept small. Isn't that, from a moral point of view, a point where we should really do something about each other by really making room for people in that benefit to do other things than just write silly job applications?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u82	This also requires a very precise answer in this debate, because the question is what you think is normal. That's what my speech was about: what's normal? I think it's normal for someone with a benefit to do whatever it takes to get out of there. Again, you have no obligation to work paid, unless you appeal to the collective. If you don't, I have a social opinion about it, but I'm not going to force it; that's a choice that every human being makes. The precision in the answer is that it can be very good for a social service to say: for this person to get back to work is the consideration for the benefit that municipalities may demand............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is a very different situation than accepting people doing long-term volunteering while they are on benefit. That seems like a nice thing, but it is ultimately very unsympathetic for society as a whole, because I am convinced that it takes the support of the system away from people to accept that they pay taxes and social contributions for a situation in which everyone can end up, on the understanding that we are shaping this society together, but on the belief that people are doing everything they can to get out of it. That's what I think is normal behavior, and that's what you get to talk to people about. That too is part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u83	The Prime Minister points out that the thick debate and the values are not always about policies and protocols. I totally agree with him, but does he agree with me that his role as an example is very decisive and has a lot of impact? We have just been talking about interrupting with my colleague from GroenLinks that words can sometimes get a wrong meaning, such as whether or not you register with the UWV. What I am missing, and what I have also paid a great deal of attention to in my speech, is the Prime Minister's position on the refugee issue. That is the biggest problem in the Netherlands at the moment. Everyone has an opinion on it. The dogs don't like the way people on social media sometimes express themselves about refugees. What I miss is a Prime Minister saying: I stand for the values of our society, I stand for justice and humanity; people who come here are welcome here; I go to Ter Apel, I ask my management driver to drive there, just like Merkel did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u84	I don't quite know what that visit to Ter Apel is gonna solve. Of course, I make a lot of work visits in all kinds of social sectors and also in this sector, but I do not think that will solve the problem. This is indeed a very big issue. We can now see that a very large stream of refugees from Africa and the Middle East are seeking a way to Europe. They're unprecedented numbers. We are not going to solve this very big issue with existing instruments, I am really convinced of that. That is why I also say to people who ask the Cabinet to solve this problem with a quick blow, with a particular policy paper or something like that, that is not possible. This problem requires a deep thought-through. We're in the middle of that right now. We want to conclude this as soon as possible, also in order to influence the European debate and, where possible, to dominate, because we believe that this is necessary. But this really requires thinking through the whole: the cause of the people coming here, how that cause can be removed, how to deal with people who come here and who are allowed to settle as asylum seekers, how to ensure that they can get to work in this society as soon as possible, and how to ensure that people who come here can return if they are not allowed to be here. That whole palette needs to be rethought. We're in the middle of that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u85	I am very pleased with this paper, but my question was not how to solve the refugee problem. I realize this is very complicated. I would not choose to remain in the discussion that it is difficult and difficult and that Europe should do something; the cabinet itself should take responsibility for that. My question to the Prime Minister was: where is the Prime Minister in the debate on values in society, when does he show himself to the people? I asked the Prime Minister why he hadn't been to Ter Apel yet. He replied that he didn't know if that's necessary, that it's a sector, that he's going to work. For Merkel it was important to show that she stands for people who come after often a terrible journey, through mountains, with a boat, under barbed wire. Why doesn't the Prime Minister say: if you're here in the Netherlands, I'm in front of you? Why doesn't he want to talk to the municipalities, to the security guards, to the shelters? Why doesn't he say: these are my values? I thought we were going to talk about the values in our society, about that fat-Imentality. So far, I have not received any answers from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u86	I find Mrs Bergkamp's speech a little complicated, because there seems to be a contradiction in it. In that case, I would be working to provide a face to the contradictions which it sees in society or to make a certain choice. I have a very different feeling: that the Netherlands are now collectively realizing itself, and I believe that this part of Europe as a whole, which has to deal with a huge problem, where the existing way of working is no longer sufficient, requires us to think things through completely again. We are doing this right now, and we hope to come up with solutions very quickly. It's a joint search. So we're working on that. I do not know what I would do if I chose a very precise position in the social contradictions alleged by Mrs Bergkamp. It seems to me that this would now add very little to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mrs Bergkamp, you have now twice used the opportunity to ask one question. I call Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u88	Now an uncomfortable bridge, because this debate goes from left to right, from top to bottom, to all social problems. I would like to touch on what Mr Grashoff has just said and the Prime Minister's reaction to it: how do you deal with labour in society, and with people who are active and people who are inactive? I do not think that you should limit that discussion to a discussion about whether or not people are going to work. We will then have to discuss the social system much more and think of a basic income. With a basic income, people can be free from themselves. People have the moral value that they want to ensure that, from the freedom they have because of their basic income, they can make a further contribution to society. This may be in the field of volunteering and care, but of course it is also very good in the form of regular work. The contradiction that is currently being created, and which the Prime Minister also creates by saying that people have to choose for themselves whether or not they are going to work, is not at all relevant; it is about what is the function of people in this society and what is their place in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u89	Yeah, that's a relevant debate. I don't see anything in a basic income, by the way, but you can have that debate with each other. I think it's normal for you to earn your own sandwich. If that really doesn't work and you've done everything you can to get rid of it, but then you're out of work, or if you have a limit, as in Mr Slob's example, which doesn't make it possible to provide for yourself, we're there for each other. But I don't see anything in a basic income. I don't know what that adds to this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u90	That is the problem of a debate which I do not think is a debate. Then you can say you don't see the added value of a basic income. I suggest that the Prime Minister explain in a letter to the Chamber why he doesn't see anything in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u91	I just said that. I refer to the Acts for my previous answer. I'm picking up a few things that came up in the discussion. Then I must first say something about the task of the government. I told you, the government has a job in situations where you talk about values, about behavior associated with them and about what is or isn't normal. Mr Slob has already referred to it and I agree with him: sometimes the government itself must act. This has been seen, for example, in the standardisation of top incomes in the public sector, in bonus legislation, in the fight against fraud and in the fight against hate-stowing. I am also thinking of policies to combat violence against ambulance workers and conductors. In these situations, for example, you have to deal with unlawful behaviour. Then the legislator must be there with legislation. There may also be a very serious nuisance. Then the government must insist, sometimes by means of legislation, on certain actions. My speech wasn't about those cases. My speech was mainly about all those inappropriate behaviors that you don't solve immediately with a law, a plague protocol or anything else. The point is that people talk to each other about something. We, as politicians, have an opinion on this too. I have said a few words in response to Mr Spekman, the Chairman of the Labour Party. He was expressing himself about the indecentness on the Internet. I agree with him. Sometimes, when you look at some reactions, the Internet seems to be the sewer of society. At the same time, it is also a good example of how things work. In the last six months, you saw a self-correcting ability on the Internet, where people said: "Oh, if you don't like this discussion, if you don't find anything important in it, withdraw from this debate. The internet is therefore a wonderful example of how in the last three to six months people active in social media correct each other. It doesn't take a law. It doesn't take plague protocol. It doesn't take anything. It happens because we talk about it in society. Hans Spekman, the Chairman of the Labour Party, said something about it one and a half years ago or two years ago. At a press conference on Friday, I responded to it. It was not a question of Mr Spekman saying anything about it, because that debate had been going on for some time. Over the past three to six months, you've seen the self-correcting ability set in motion. I don't see how you could have forced that on a law. Couldn't have done that at all. I'm glad you didn't. There's freedom of speech. If people want to yell on the Internet, by all means, but it's not something I like. It doesn't add anything to the discussion either. It is an example of inappropriate behaviour and how society can defend itself against it. It is also an example of the role of politics. We're allowed to find something of that. That's the most important thing. In order to further adjudicate this, I mention the example of discrimination. I hate that someone named Mohammed or Fatima doesn't get a job or an internship because of his or her name. Fortunately, we have all kinds of legislation against discrimination, but my point is different, namely that we as politicians in society can say to Fatima and Mohammed that they too have a role to play in the way they deal with this discrimination. We can do anything to stop it, but whatever law I make, no matter how many phone numbers I open, I can never fight it 100%. Next, the question is how you deal with it when you as a second or third generation try to make a positive contribution to this society. My point is that if you don't give up and fight and maybe because of that, however bad it is, you'll have to apply twice as often as a Jan or a Mieke, then you'll get to work. Fortunately, we also have a country in which you can eventually become mayor of Rotterdam. That is also something that politics can promote to people, in a positive way. I'm not gonna solve that with a law or protocol. These are examples that we, as Prime Minister and all of us as politicians, can give in the social debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u92	The Prime Minister writes in his own letter: therefore it is important that people address each other in all conceivable social contexts and situations to undesirable behaviour. I think this is an example of undesirable behavior. I will therefore take the Prime Minister's appeal to heart and say something about it. I find this really undesirable. The Prime Minister claims that discrimination cannot be eliminated by legislation, regulations or protocols. At the same time, he sends out the signal that Muhammad or Fatima must fight in society. That's gonna be pretty crippled. Is the Prime Minister aware that Muhammad and Fatima, whom he is talking about, are applying to the labour market silly? The numbers don't lie. According to CBS statistics, unemployment is growing: the increase is 43%. Again and again a distinction is made in the labour market. What is the Prime Minister's position on this point? What signal does he think that his statement is based on the fact that one has to fight oneself in the labour market? This is undesirable. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr Kuzu has every right to return my words to me in his own way, but they are not my words anymore. I have three tasks. First of all, of course, I have a legislative task, simply because it is illegal to discriminate. There are all kinds of laws in this area, there are all kinds of hotlines and if discrimination occurs, there is persecution. Secondly, I address employers wherever possible and tell them that it is important to also give a chance to people who have not lived here since the Eighty Years' War, but who have come here more recently, first, second or third generations, or refugees who now have asylum status and are legally resident here. My point here is that I also say something to the people involved. I have to disappoint Mr Kuzu: legislation does not completely eliminate discrimination. It's also forbidden to run through red, but it still happens. A lot of things that are forbidden happen anyway. That's why we have judges and lawyers and we're taking action against them. So it happens. It would be a lie to say to Fatima or Muhammad that discrimination will never happen again thanks to legislation. Don't make that impression. I therefore believe that he or she has the task of wondering how he or she deals with discrimination. I want to make people stronger in that. I want to show them that, by not being pulled down by discrimination but continuing, they can eventually fight a positive place in society. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u94	The example of red driving is striking. As a Chamber and as a society, we made an agreement that you should not run through red light. If you do, we'll give you a fine to discourage this behavior. I ask a simple question to the Prime Minister. Mrs Bergkamp has just tried. What signal does the Prime Minister of the Netherlands send to society when, in addition to his words about discrimination, laws against discrimination and the impossibility of eliminating discrimination from society, he says that you have to fight in the labour market? I don't think that's desirable. That's a wrong signal. I would have loved it if the Prime Minister had said in his statements that he strongly condemns discrimination and that he stands before it. Not the second story, but the first story deserves attention, because discrimination is only increasing further. That's worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u95	I fully agree with the first story, but that is not enough, because that does not eliminate discrimination. I often have this kind of conversation with young people who are dealing with discrimination. Many of them are not officially ethnic; their parents or grandparents came here in the 1960s or 1970s, or more recently, as refugees. Then I explain and say that in our history there have always been large groups who have had to fight in society, which have also had to do with this stupidity of discrimination and that idiotic behaviour of exclusion. Unfortunately, there was no proper legislation at the time. There is now. So we can now fight it through legislation. We are. But it still happens. You also have a choice how to handle it. Are you gonna let it pull you down, let it take over, let it eventually make you all passive? Or do you fight that place in society and say: "You can discriminate endlessly, but fortunately I live in a country where it is not allowed and it is also fought?" You're saying if you do, I'm gonna give you a shit, 'cause I'm just gonna get that nice job? In the end, that is what I want, and that is what I really think is part of this discussion. I'm really gonna go through with that, too. This is essential, especially for us as politicians, to strengthen people in this country and ensure that they do not give up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u96	I can tell by myself that I'm getting mad about it again. It is in itself a sensible advice to fight through, even if someone is in difficult circumstances, but I am concerned about the fact that the Prime Minister makes a certain choice in a speech. He stands at a crossroads and can mention two examples of horniness and thick-me. He can give the employers who simply refuse to assign internships and jobs, who simply mistreat them and know that they cannot be caught because it is not controllable, a wipe out. Or he can give the people who complain about it and say they won't come to work, a sweep out of the pan. The Prime Minister chooses the second option. And there he is, my annoyance. The Prime Minister should choose to stand for those who deserve a place in this society. He must choose to stand up to the people who are doing discrimination. I would ask him to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u97	I'm not giving anyone... yes, I'm giving employers who discriminate a sweep out of the pan. Of course. But I don't do that to someone with an ethnic background who doesn't get to work because of discrimination. I'm not gonna wipe it out at all. On the contrary, I am completely on his or her side. But I'll add: in the end, you have to ask yourself whether you allow it to pull you down or not. I think it is essential that we, as politicians, take a positive approach and indeed make people stronger. We must show what they can achieve in this country and what wonderful examples there are of people who, regardless of their cultural background, make a positive contribution in this country in every possible way. That's my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. I can't help it, but this is a statement and no more question. But I'm gonna pronounce it anyway. If the Prime Minister makes the choice on such a crucial point as he has made, I can only conclude that he is sending the wrong signal at the wrong time in the wrong setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u99	This shows how good the debate is and how essential the discussion on this issue is. It is of value because it is precisely this kind of discussion that needs to take place in society. Exactly what I want! I welcome Mr Grashoff's response. We don't agree. Other people can take part in that debate again, they can find something. And that ultimately determines in this country how we also shape our values in behavior. That is exactly the point I wanted to make with my speech. Thank you to Mr Grashoff for putting it so sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u100	Then I also hope I understood the Prime Minister correctly. I listened carefully to his answer to the question as to why he made this speech, which was the message. I actually heard him say this was management by speech. I used a moment to leave a clear message in society, and now we're moving on. Did I hear him so well, or didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u101	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u102	It is always pleasant when a "no" is explained. I do not see this as an interruption, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u103	Okay. It's possible. On the contrary, I'm going through with this. And I hope we all go through with it. I think it is essential for our country that we, as politicians, not only complain about what legislation, protocols and what we do not have. I have to say, I've had some doubts about it. There has been a discussion in the Council of Ministers about a terrible social incident, of which I said: if we speak of it as politics, the question of journalists will immediately be what law we are going to make for it. They will ask: who is going to make a protocol about this or which organisations are you going to talk to about this? But it can't always be. It can be very often, often even, when it comes to trans-standard behaviour, when it really concerns issues where there are clearly illegal behaviours or there are serious nuisances, but in many cases it cannot be done. And yet we can find something of it. We are all strengthened by the debate here in the Lower House. You are the representative of the Dutch people. There are 150 of you standing for 17 million people. I'm allowed to argue with the team that is the executive in this country. I'm incredibly proud of that. We have a task to take part in and to find something of it. As Mrs Van Ark said, I am proud of the gentleman in my city who, despite all these setbacks, is continuing and I am on his side. That's what people see, and that's what people hear, in the vein of: hey, it's obviously appreciated. Maybe others will say "I agree with this Grashoff" or "I agree with this Grashoff." I have just offended Mr Grashoff with my view of how you deal with discrimination in society. The conversation is then going on and that is exactly what I want, because then you will have a stronger society, in which we no longer determine from above in our old columns what "good for you" is, but in which we fill those values with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u104	Management by speech can sometimes be really useful, but indeed, if it is only words, those words can become very hollow. I'm talking about the situation in which you see all kinds of developments around you where the fat-I constantly pops up and in which you can expect a certain action from the government. I'm glad to hear the Prime Minister say, "I'm going through with it. When I see injustice in society and see that people are greater than they are and do not serve society, I will speak, but I will also act." I am very curious to see what his response will be to the first term of Mr Samsom, who has identified the biggest social problem in which he is so present, namely refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u105	On this issue, there is a task for politics. That is what Mr Slob is right about. However, don't think that if you find anything, this should be translated into law immediately. I hope that this also applies to Mr Slob himself. It is true, however, of the major issue of migration. We are immediately in agreement on this. As a result of his contribution, I mentioned the examples of fraud and hatred, but also violence against ambulance staff and conductors. On these points, the government as legislator has a direct role to play. These are all cases of unlawful behaviour and serious nuisance. But in all those cases where there is inappropriate behaviour, behavior that is not normal but does not immediately touch the law itself, we as politicians can find something about it. I note that this is very much appreciated in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u106	A strong society consists not only of strong people, but also of strong people who take care of less strong people. At least that's our philosophy. I think the Prime Minister underestimates himself in terms of the impact he has and the exemplary role he could have in a number of issues. I'm gonna try again anyway. At the moment people are worried in the Netherlands and they are afraid. There's xenophobia. We have seen this as a response to the refugee problem. Is it not important that we have a prime minister who is above the parties and says 'what I am hearing now, I do not accept', who responds to this and, if necessary, goes to Ter Apel, which I have just mentioned as an example and which at least show that these are also important values in the Netherlands? I have the feeling that this Prime Minister always focuses on "you have to be stronger, come on, don't be Calimero," but just forget the other side of his approach. I believe that the strength of a good Prime Minister is also that binding capacity. To be honest, I miss that in a lot of gigs today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u107	Well, okay. I can assure Mrs Bergkamp of that. Of course, I totally agree with her. I reject any form of xenophobia and any form of racism. Where I have the chance to take a stand against it, I do. I will not defend myself by bringing up all these examples, but of course I will. But she's gonna want me in that car to Ter Apel. She lingers in that: I have to do the Merkelian. I think it is particularly important now for politics to come forward with a response to this crisis. The cabinet is leading the way in that direction. We're working very hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u108	I will make it a little easier for the Prime Minister and not stay stuck in the Merkelian. Let me ask a specific question: what is this Prime Minister going to do to ensure that people who come here, who have been through terrible things and have had to go through a lot of trouble to get here, feel welcome and not suffer from all the unrest and discontent that prevails? What's the Prime Minister gonna do? I can't get him in the car to Ter Apel, but what will the Prime Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u109	Of all the people who report to the Netherlands today, who are legally resident in the Netherlands and meet the conditions for obtaining asylum status here, I want them to be able to make a positive contribution in this country as soon as possible. All our legislation is designed to protect people from discrimination, to protect them from xenophobia and to protect them from violence. I'm 300% in favour of that. The people who come here as asylum seekers, who are legally granted asylum and allowed to stay here, are only part of the problem. In addition, unfortunately, there is still a much larger issue at the moment of the huge increase in flows. Now the question of how a society as a whole deals with it is seriously raised, and then politics must be expected to manage it properly. We are working very hard on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u110	I'm gonna give it a try and pick up one aspect of the past. If I am not mistaken, the Prime Minister has just said that he will speak out against discrimination in all possible ways. In 2011, the situation arose that during the General Political Reviews from the field that is currently empty, an initiative was launched called the Poles reporting point. As far as I am concerned, this was full of xenophobia, xenophobia and fear for groups of people in the Netherlands. The Prime Minister had no idea at the time and I ask him why he didn't have that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u111	Because I sometimes think it wise not to respond to every piece of red meat thrown into the arena in the political formation mentioned by Mr Kuzu. Sometimes it's so intense that it has to be. I did so last year in the General Reviews, following the "less, less" speech about fewer Moroccans by the foreman of that political party. But in general, my view is that I do not respond to every provocation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u112	This is, of course, in stark contrast to what the Prime Minister writes in his own letter. I ask him how that relates to the statements he has just made. In his letter, he writes that it is important for people to address each other in all conceivable social contexts, I repeat: in all conceivable social contexts, that is, in my opinion, also here in the House of Representatives, in certain situations, to address undesirable behaviour. Now, however, the monkey comes out of the sleeve. He is somewhat selective, while in his letter he sends a very different signal. How do these two relate to each other, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u113	It shouldn't be that when someone says "jump," the other only asks "how high?'. In the end, we must make choices to which we respond and what effect that has. It is my view that it is extremely unwise to respond to every aspect and to every statement made by the political formation in this House in particular. That only generates unnecessary attention, and that's exactly what that club wants. If it goes too far, I express myself on that. I call Erdogan, of whom someone from that group said in 2011 "there comes the Islamic monkey out of the sleeve," which led to the Do-Ones-normal moment in the General Reviews, or the Less-Moroccan pronunciation of 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u114	I will come back to the issue of discrimination. That is such an important subject that I do not want to let go of it here, partly because it also shows the difference in the human image between the Prime Minister and the undersigned. We agree on the laws and their enforcement. We agree on addressing employers when they are discriminated against. Then the question is, what are you doing with Fatima, who has been rejected again? The Prime Minister says to Fatima, "Get wide, save yourself, bet."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u115	Move it! Move it! Move it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u116	I would like to give the Prime Minister a heartfelt opinion, born of experience, which can also prevent him from pissing off Mr Grashoff, and that would once again be a gain in this debate. Leave Fatima and Ahmed with courage! Both have once again been rejected by an employer who preferred to hire Piet or Jan. Give them courage and say, "I'm on your side if you're looking for a job. I will support you wherever possible and where necessary, and I will help you until you have found that job. I'm assuming you're looking for that job yourself, but I see you're gonna need a little push in there now and then." That's just more than a nuance, the difference in the way you, in my opinion, really exude discrimination from this society as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u117	Yeah, I don't think we disagree on that. Of course you do. I'm not just saying go on. There's a few sentences to that. Not as eloquence as Mr Samsom just said; that is his ability. I do that a little woodier, but I do it with emotion and feeling. Basically, I say that I cannot keep discrimination 100% away. Discrimination will be there and is part of a phase of society in which a very large group of people have come from outside. You're dealing with it, and that's a given. I also say: "We have legislation and everything else, don't let it pull you down. I know you're sorry, but don't let it pull you down; go through." I see a firm liberal approach here. Then I come to a point on which I do disagree and which was raised by Mr Buma. Moreover, I support much of his speech, but there is really a difference between my conception of society and that of the confessions. This has to do with the space that you see in society for civil society organisations, associations and associations to do very good things and to make a very good contribution up to and including where, in Christian Democratic State doctrine, these organisations are also formally transferred to public administration; the doctrine of functional decentralisation. I am not in favour of that. In my view, this always leads to unclear connections. As chairman of the JOVD, I have talked about the sacred trinity of Lubbers, Pope and pan of soup. Where exactly do you lay the responsibilities? Who's gonna talk about what? I am in favour of territorial decentralisation. Here the liberal and the confessional image collide enormously. Moreover, I was very much in favour of Mr Buma's speech, with the exception of a few negative reflections on my policy. He also had a well-performed argument. However, this is a difference of opinion. Maybe this has something to do with a different human image. This concerns remarks made by Mr Van Raak on this subject. Even Adam Smith, he was mentioned for a while in this debate, and otherwise I am the first to be allowed to do so, realized that people were driven by self-interest but that they are also social-feeling beings. A predecessor of mine as foreman of the VVD, Frits Bolkestein, once spoke very nicely about the inspiring relationship in society. How do you get an inspiring connection in society? In my opinion, this can be done in a country with free people who are given the space to develop and grow. If there are problems, they know themselves supported by a collective solidarity. That's all of us, including decent health care and social security. At the core, it's about being challenged to get the best out of yourself and to make a positive contribution. What you see is that people then connect and make positive contributions to society. It doesn't matter if Adam Smith says that, or if I do, or if we just watch that happen on the street. This in itself leads to an inspiring relationship in society; another form of this is the participatory society. Mr Slob said that this word was gone, but as far as I am concerned, it is still very much alive. It is also under a great deal of thought around the decentralisations. I'm going to allow myself a little dilation. The day before yesterday, I had the pleasure of having a meeting with the municipal council of Veenendaal in the group room of the SP. The mayor of that municipality is a valued party mate. We had to get used to the place and the posters, but otherwise it is a very pleasant space. That is where we discussed the importance of decentralisation. Instead of applying all these laws, municipalities are now able to really see how they can get people back on their feet as quickly as possible from the youth care, the Participation Act or the Wmo. Municipalities are able to make people really make a positive contribution again and not make them dependent. Sometimes it doesn't work. Sometimes this dependency is long-lasting. Municipalities try to do everything together with people to achieve that positive contribution. A huge contribution is made to this process by a huge number of volunteers. They do not do this because they are instructed to do so, but because they find it normal and enjoyable. I find that incredibly positive. That leads to an animated society. You should not lock people up in too many rules, but you should not create too many misty structures between state and citizen in the form of associations and civil society organisations, I say to Mr Buma. Yes, these organizations are very positive, but not if they are given formal state power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u118	There are differences of opinion about visions. I do not think I can convince the Prime Minister in this interruption of the Christian-Democratic ideology, although I will be able to do so with a little more time. I do have a question. In his speech now he talks about the shadowy connections in society. In his speech in May, however, he called himself the big society developed by Cameron in England, which is based on a society that develops those shadowy structures. I just mentioned a few, like the social impact unions: citizens who jointly start an organisation, just to take over tasks from the government. This, as I said, is not so much a liberal value, but much more a conservative and even confessional value. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he considers the big society an ideology to go further or whether he thinks liberalism is an ideology to go further. Big society means intermediate structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u119	For liberals, by definition, they want a large society in which people are animated, evolving and connecting with others. We are making social beings strong for the collective. There is a discussion. That is what the debate is about that I have with Mr Buma and in the past also with Mr Balkenende. When I was in the opposition, we had a few nice debates here on functional decentralisation. That is where the liberal and confessional views of the state become fundamental, where they clash fundamentally. In the eyes of liberals, there is no room for those whishy-washy shady intermediate structures. We like to keep things clear. This is without prejudice to the fact that the power of associations that can be the carnival associations in the south, street parties that are organized in Rotterdam or people who are now standing up for each other in the very difficult situation in Groningen is of very great social value. However, you do not have to transfer social, public tasks to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u120	I disagree again. I keep saying that the bigsociety concept developed in England is based on structures that put people together who take over tasks from the government. In that sense, I would like to recommend to the Prime Minister Kuyper, Green of Princer and Schaepman, because there are really lines that the VVD can learn a lot from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr Buma mentions big names. Let me mention a more recent British politician, Iain Duncan Smith. In 2008 I visited him in London. He ran the think tank of the British Conservatives. There is also the origin of the friendship with David Cameron, which I first met. He was still in opposition and so was I. We then talked about the report that released that think tank, Breakdown Britain, and the fact that in their analysis British society showed all kinds of cracks, with families, parents, no longer taking responsibility. That is also something I mentioned in my speech at the VVD Congress: the big fat me of, for example, parents who take sides for the children and not for the teacher. If I used to get punished, I'd get a tap at home before they didn't hit, but at least it felt so much like I had to appeal to my parents against that teacher in the distance. The importance that you choose as parents for the teacher and not for your own child if that teacher simply needs it from the authority to correct that child, until you accept that that teacher may also have some expertise, is also an example. Mrs Van Ark spoke about a very intense example that appeared on NU.nl from the Hague Statenkwartier of parents who even attacked the teacher. Then you even have to deal with really cross-law and cross-standard behavior. For that, there is already behavior that may not be in violation of the law, but it is very undesirable. These are all themes that were also discussed in the Conservative Party's London think tank. They do not just opt for social intermediate structures. They also choose the importance of naming a society in which people appeal to each other for non-normal behavior. I agree with Mr Buma. The conservatives are neither his nor mine. They have left the European Christian Democratic Party and are now in their own club. We do not agree with each other in every respect, but I think that the ideas of a large society rather than a large government at its core as polemics are very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u122	It has taken a while, but I think we are now getting to the heart of this debate. I believe that the debate was intended to discuss the relationship between politics and public morality. I had already congratulated the Prime Minister for putting public morality on the agenda as a leader of the Netherlands, as Balkenende did earlier. I see, however, that both prime ministers have the same dilemma, namely that for a very long time there has been a policy of introducing more market forces and of own responsibility. It was a Purple policy that came from the 1990s, a neoliberal policy that sees the Netherlands as an e.g. and politically mostly as management. I ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with me that this policy also has a morality and promotes a certain public morality. This policy calls especially on the individual, stimulates competition between people and, above all, allows people to think about the short-term and short-term profits. Certain values, such as community spirit, trust and sustainability, have become much more difficult to find because of that policy and in that image of the Netherlands as an e.g. and the politician as a manager. After 25 years, this has also led to changes in public morality, which has become tougher. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? People have become more individualistic and more competitive. They have become less like fellow human beings and more like anti-humans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u123	I see a very different society. Mr Van Raak is now coming up with the SP-blaming on market forces, which is a bit of concrete. What do I think of the market forces in healthcare? I'd be for a little bit of market power. There is hardly any market power now. I am not in favour of or against market forces, but I am in favour of the best instruments to maintain this type of large public provision. Sometimes market forces can help, sometimes not. It can sometimes help to build freedom of choice and a little bit of competition in large public services. Because of that competition, people have fun doing it better than anyone else. They want to make the best hospital, or the best care facility. In doing so, market forces can help. Can I give the Socialist Party an example of this? So far, all appointments within the Socialist Party have been imposed from above, but the Socialist Party has also discovered market forces. There is a real election of Presidents there. There are two candidates now, and maybe more will come. There is competition and freedom of choice. People can make decisions about that. Those two candidates are going to debate each other, challenge each other and bring out the best in each other, but above all in themselves. I'm sure that's gonna help the SP. So yes, I am actually surprised at Mr Van Raak's question. You'd think he'd say, "I've been wrong all these years." Without fooling around, my point is that we have the most accessible and solidarityary care possible. It contains a few elements of market operation. As far as I am concerned, that could be a little more, but it is now what it is and we have already changed a lot. However, I have nothing against market forces if they lead to more freedom of choice and a little bit of competition in a positive way. It should not lead to self-enrichment. If that happens, we'll intervene with each other immediately. Everyone is very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u124	I find it remarkable that the Prime Minister of the Netherlands sees the holding of elections as a mark. I'll leave that for him. However, it might say something about the way he looks at society. Today, a lot of topics have been reviewed. Actually, I'd like to go a step further. I am convinced that market forces in care are bad, because it makes care more expensive and worse. If you're going to reward specialists by action, they're going to do a lot of things, even if they're not needed. However, I did not really want to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u125	I don't have that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u126	Actually, I'd like to go a step further. In fact, from the Prime Minister's appeal, I have noted that he wants to discuss the implications of policies for public morality. So this is not just about whether market forces are good or bad for care. I would like to talk about the consequences of introducing market forces, bonuses, managers and spreadsheets into public tasks, taking into account figures, settlement, short-term and profit-making. If you manage a country in such a way with the public sector and the semi-public sector, such as an e.g. managed by a manager, it will have consequences for the way we deal with each other. This has implications for public morality. This is a policy that stimulates individualism, competition between people and short-term thinking. I would like to have this discussion with the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister does not agree, I would like to ask him what lessons he has learned. He recognizes, as leader of the liberals, that politics and morality have to do with each other. What lessons does he draw from this for policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u127	My speech was not about how public policy works on morality in society. I would like to have that debate, but my speech was about how, in a society where not everything can be resolved by law, one appeals to one another if non-normal behaviour is shown and what role we as politicians have in it. That's what my speech was about. To stand on the side of people I have called the silent majority, who are doing the right thing, who work for others without asking for compliments, who make a positive contribution to this society, was what my speech was about. However, following Mr Van Raak's example, I would like to have a whole debate on the functioning of the market in health care. That looks a bit like Gandhi and British civilization. What do you think of British civilization? Gandhi said: I think that's a good idea! What do you think of the market forces in health care? I would find a little more market functioning in health care to be quite healthy. I think it's very limited. To the extent that there is, she contributes to freedom of choice and to the desire to come forward as the best hospital, nursing home or nursing home of the Netherlands in the states of Elsevier or de Volkskrant, instead of admitting on a birthday, after first having three whiskeys, that you run that bad hospital. That pressure is increased a little bit. You have to note that we have a fantastic health care in the Netherlands, where incredibly good people work. I think that our health care is at least the best in Europe and perhaps in the world. Yes, there are problems, with the costs and on parts also with the quality. We're working hard on that. But with the image of the SP as if the whole health care system is broken, I can't do anything. I do not know what country Mr Van Raak lives in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u128	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u129	With all these appreciated interruptions, I believe I have done justice to the questions asked, unless someone is running mad at the microphone right now, but I don't see that happening. Actually, we've been able to operate each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u130	Then the first deadline has come to an end. Oh, no, I see someone else at the interrupting microphone. Mr Van Raak, you may also ask your question in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u131	I have also called for attention to be paid to the fat people in the ministries, the fat people who have put a big finger on the House of Representatives. How does the Prime Minister appreciate that such a bad moral example is being given to society from his ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u132	This is already the conclusion in which it would all come from and also the conclusion that what is reported here and there in the media is all right. That's all gonna have to turn out on Prince's Day. If there are any leaks that appear to be true or true, I cannot say now, which will be evident after 15 September, then I am just as sorry as Mr Van Raak. I mean it. I think we should present everything on Prince's Day. The Constitution is also clear about this: this is done through the speech of the King, the Throne speech, the presentation of government policy and immediately following the publication of the Millions' Note and the underlying documents. We have agreed with the Chamber on an arrangement allowing it to examine the documents in advance in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u133	I'm getting the financial support of all leaked pieces by 5:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much for that. What the Prime Minister is saying, however, he cannot be serious. It is clear where the leaks come from, not from us but from the ministries. That is, after all, the only place where this information is available. I think the Prime Minister's diving here is awful. He is responsible, also for the decency of the summit of ministries. There's a lot of fat guys there who are deliberately leaking. I've seen a lot of information, and it's not that complicated to find out where it comes from, at least from the ministries. There is no other way to get it from anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u134	The statement that there would be a lot of fat people there, let me just say on Mr Van Raak's behalf. I think we have a very good state service in the Netherlands and a good official summit. That's what I stand for. I do agree with him that it's never good when pieces leak. Whether what's leaked is true, I can't say anything about it. After all, I will give you information that I cannot and will not give. But I understand the irritation. It's been happening for years, every year. We also try to prevent it every year. So I get it, but the policy on this point is clear, as is the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u135	I referred in my speech to Mr Samsom's excellent article in the NRC. In it he indicates that the comments you made at the VVD Congress were rather gratuitous. Actually, I thought that was a good comment. That has not been discussed, given the other contribution made by Mr Samsom, although he also had another piece of paper. What does the Prime Minister think about the fact that the remarks were indeed rather gratuitous?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u136	I didn't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u137	That is a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u138	That's true. This was a run-up for me. It wasn't the first interruption yet. Like Mr Slob, I say to the Prime Minister: explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u139	I made a speech. A few examples from that speech have been discussed again today. These included, for example, discrimination, the labour market and parents who choose children rather than teachers. I have mentioned seven examples of fat-I behavior. I have not discussed bankers now, but they have passed by in contributions from different spokesmen. "Toodle Dokie" was said. In my view, all these examples are at the heart of the debate, namely the contribution we have to make from politics to normal behaviour in society and the discussion about it. We can't dive for that. Nor should we think: we cannot solve it with a law, so we keep our mouths shut about it. On the contrary, we are expected to make a social contribution to this and to give positive examples. I agree with everyone who has pointed this out. In the last contribution Mrs Van Ark mentioned a few wonderful examples of this. I fully agree with that. I tried to do that myself. And yes, if the group chairman of my coalition party makes reflective remarks about a speech I have made, which do not in all respects testify to the immediate agreement in all respects, then of course I deeply regret it, but I have to live with it. You can wear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u140	That's the last thing I'd like to hope for the Prime Minister. It does, however, sign the impotence in this debate that is not a debate. There's no convincing. There's no convincing either. Everyone has made a confession of faith, as Mr Rutte has done, and then the discussion has reached a kind of meta-level under the guise of "fine that it is being discussed." That is indeed the profit of the debate. It is good that we can debate it and that the Prime Minister, for example, may disagree with Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u141	I think Mr Klein is failing himself. Take, for example, the discussion we had about discrimination in the labour market. Mr Grashoff and I were opposed to each other. I'm not gonna try to pepper over that: we just disagreed. That's fine! These are politicians who are talking about an important social issue. I don't know if all that goes through the media into the country and who follows it all. But it has its value, because we need to find something. We must also find something about social issues which cannot be transposed directly into legislation. That is what this debate is about. I think that is extremely valuable. In my opinion, Mr Klein is failing himself when he says that it is only about a meta-level. I don't think so at all. I am very pleased that this speech calls for this. As I said to Mr Slob, I will continue to do so, particularly encouraged by this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u142	That was a personal fact, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u143	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr Rutte spoke to me as if I were doing something else. That is absolutely not the case. The meta-level is that we are going to discuss each other and that we can do it so nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u145	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u146	When we talk about discrimination, we talk about values.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u147	You say the Prime Minister is misinterpreting it. That is now recorded in the Acts. Well, that's a personal fact, then. This has put an end to the government's first term. I'm just looking at the Chamber to see if there's a need for a second term. That seems to be the case, because I see Mr Slob coming forward now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply and the clarification he gave on his speech a few months ago. In the first term, I asked: does it make sense to have a debate on the fat-I, especially in the time when we are living with the big problems that exist? The debate has made it clear that there are differences of opinion. One colleague had already disappeared after one sentence had been said. Another colleague called it a non-discussion, but remained until the end of the debate and even caused the last interruption. I have been confirmed in my view that it is a good thing that we have done this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr Klein, a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u150	At least that's how I interpret it, because I never said it was a non-discussion or non-issue. It's definitely an issue. I have just said that there is a non-debate here, because you cannot achieve a direct result at all in controlling the Prime Minister and his actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u151	I have been confirmed in my view that it was a good thing that we spoke here. We have been given a glimpse at different groups in their sense of value, not only in vague terms, but also in sometimes very topical problems. We have heard Mr Samsom's appeal on the refugee issue. That call was also addressed to other groups, to see what we can do about it as far as possible. I look forward to the debate on this next Thursday morning. Mr Van Ark of the VVD Group has left room to look together at the obstacles in which the government is sometimes an obstacle when citizens want to take their own responsibility. That's profit. I have heard a Prime Minister correcting something that is really misunderstood, something that he had a little sloppy about people who have benefits. It would have been better if he had done that a few months ago, but it's good that it finally happened now, audience in the debate here. In addition, I have heard the Prime Minister say that he will continue his call to fight the fat-I, his call to put values and standards at the centre, in words and, if necessary, in deeds. Of course, you don't have to think about the most far-reaching things, for example laws, but there's still a lot in between. I'm happy about that. We'll hold him to that in the near future, too, if we need to. This debate offers opportunities, including for the future. Maybe we can get back together with 2009, when the then Minister of the Interior was working on a charter of responsible citizenship, which was called a matter of giving and taking. Maybe now we can do something with interesting materials that came to a standstill. With regard to budgets, we will be able to go further with each other, because budgets are also value documents. Those are moral documents, expressions of political choices. Let the debate be held there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u152	Mr. Chairman. A discussion about the fat-me, about the relationship between politics and public morality, I have to say that I haven't gotten along yet. A lot of subjects have passed in a very short time. It went from refugees to discrimination to care for unemployment. But that can't be the core. The essence must be what I believe the Prime Minister said in his speech, namely that the decisions taken by politics, the debates she is conducting and the example she is setting have an impact on society. In this sense, she is an example of how we deal with each other in this country. I have missed that a little bit in this debate, but I think we should. Sometimes that can be very personal. This is how I asked for more attention this week for the fat-me in the ministries. They give an example of "you can do anything you want, because you'll get away with it". This is also an example for people, an example for public morality. I believe that we should also discuss the moral consequences of policies in the future. The First Chamber has conducted a major investigation into the effects of 25 years of market operation. It has also dealt with the consequences for society: individualism, competition, short-term thinking. As a result, there is less room for community spirit, for cooperation and care, for sustainability. I also think that we should continue to discuss in this Chamber the question of how we organise communities, how we organise people towards each other and the importance of social security and common services, which are too often dismissed as old-fashioned in the Chamber, which I believe are solutions to the problems of today. We will have to continue to have these debates. Soon we will be discussing the report of the First Chamber in this Chamber. We shall then see today's debate as a kick-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u153	Madam President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers and his speech. We do not often have a debate like this on values. In the House of Representatives we are very used to discussing tomorrow's measures or for the coming year. We still have time to do so, because there is still a whole budget on the agenda. Now it is more about the ideology underlying the choices that are made later. Although a debate such as this may not lead to exciting motions, although they may still take place, I share the view of those who say that this is very important, because it is indeed about the values underlying the choices that are at stake in the House of Representatives. In it, everyone puts their own accents. One will do so more socio-economically, the other more culturally-socially. It is also perfectly possible to address the moral dilemma surrounding refugee policy, as Mr Samsom has done. I would add that the issue of refugees is not purely a moral dilemma, but also very quickly calls for great steps and great choices. Therefore, I cannot ignore the fact that I have recently seen in the news how divided the PvdA and the VVD are about this refugee policy. Then there must be solutions. When I see one day that two children are granted a residence permit, nobody is waiting for a day later to be widely told that this was mainly due to the Labour Party. That is not the way we should deal with this issue. That requires surrender from everyone, and that requires difficult choices. I call on the cabinet and the coalition to quickly let go of the talk for their own cause and to come up with decisions. Whatever we talked about today, and what the brief debate on the interruption with the Prime Minister was about, is the question of how to ensure that society organises properly if you want the government to step back. Otherwise there will be a society of atoms or individuals that do not look at each other. The Prime Minister has rightly pointed out that there is a great difference in the way Christian democracy and the liberal parties stand in it. This will also lead to different outcomes in the near future. The CDA Group maintains the idea that you need intermediate structures. I refer to the Big Society as it came to England. I also refer to the liberal side's long advocated removal of product shelves, which were typically a product of organizations of the people themselves. They've been lifted. There are two complaints. A lot of tasks aren't being done anymore. Who's gonna take over the duties? The government. That is the great fear that the CDA Group has if you do not recognise that self-organisations also have their own structures and responsibilities. That was my second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr. Chairman. Although I have the impression that this debate is very unsatisfactory on a number of points, I think it is a good thing that we have had it. I am pleased that this debate has been requested by Mr Slob. I still welcome the fact that a Prime Minister is meddling in a debate on standards and values, even though we disagree on points of fact. I also welcome the fact that at least the Prime Minister has talked about his statements about the unemployed as a kind of slip of the tongue or a sloppy wording. I would have liked him to have done so earlier and more clearly for the target group we are talking about. I am a little shocked that the contradiction seems to be even sharper than I thought, when it comes to the issue of discrimination. It is to the credit of the Prime Minister that he says that he is not going to hide that we are very different in it, but in my opinion, the operation of leading politicians, such as the Prime Minister, but also others, has an enormous influence on public morality, and not in a positive way. We are therefore in fact opposed to each other. I believe that the Dutch Government should opt for a completely different commitment on an important issue such as discrimination. Of course, the regulations and legislation are there, but I point out the moral appeal. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan nogmaals tegen de minister-president zeggen: verander dit, want dit is geen leuke tegenstelling.]] Finally, I would like to point out that a subject has not been worked out in this debate, which is broader than the one I have just mentioned. What is the impact of the atmosphere in the political debate, the vocabulary of politicians, public opinion and moral debate in society? We do not need to work it out specifically, but I will give you an example. A politician or a prime minister says: windmills run on subsidies instead of wind. This puts a totally wrong tone in a climate debate, which we must have very seriously with each other. I'm referring to those kinds of elements. I am very sorry that this has not worked out well. That is hardly possible in this setting either, but perhaps we should think of other settings so that we can discuss this further. I forget I want to file another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u155	You'll have to read it to me very quickly. Go, go!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u156	The motion is very brief. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increased influx of refugees leads to a humanitarian crisis at the EU's borders requiring immediate action;]] [[noting that France, Italy and Germany have made far-reaching proposals to arrive at a key for refugees across EU Member States;]] [[calls on the government to support this initiative of France, Italy and Germany in every way and, if necessary, to form a leading group within the EU, with the aim of finding a workable solution for the reception of refugees as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-III-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u157	Madam President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I had a bit of a First Chamber feeling in the House of Representatives today, the feeling of being in a chambre de reflection, which now goes beyond the delusion of the day on the values under our legislation, which are often discussed. Today, the essence was not so much the question of what value you are now filling in the laws, nor of the differences and agreements that we can have with them. That is also a very important debate. The essence was rather the fact that the legality of cases was not the last word. That was quite widely shared, and it was actually very well reflected in the Prime Minister's speech. You can say it's within the limits of the law, but is it also a little decent? Is it a little normal, too? You can talk to each other about that. You do not have to agree on that, but it is a good thing that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet do not avoid it either. The easiest way is to say: there will be no law, so we have no message. We would like this to be encouraged on subjects other than those discussed today. I also mention freedom of speech. I believe that sometimes it is too easy to say 'it is legitimate' and 'beware of self-censorship'. That is also an area where you can say that what you say is allowed by law, but you can also ask yourself whether it is wise and necessary. That's an old and nice discussion. Adam Smith was brought forward today. His work on morality is much less well known, but it is still worth taking notice of. The Theory of Moral Sentiments is a much less well-known book. But also sympathy, the way we deal with each other and can empathise with others, is of great importance. One more small concretization. When I heard the Prime Minister in dispute with Mr Buma on functional decentralisation, I thought for a moment that the water authorities should now also fear for their existence, because that has everything to do with functional decentralisation. I thought that the Prime Minister would say that they are a special mixture of territorial and functional decentralisation, so that they do not have to worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr Bontes has indicated that he is refusing a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u159	Mr. Chairman. This was one of those debates that, when we get home, we will have to sit down for a while, calm down for a while, then we will think about what we have talked about and what we have achieved with each other. Nevertheless, I have a feeling that it is very good that we have had this debate together. I therefore congratulate Mr Slob on having put this debate on the agenda. It made us think a little bit wider again, reflected a little bit and came out of the delusion of the day. What has become clear is that public morality does not exist. We have seen today that we are all individuals of our own opinion. But politics and the Prime Minister certainly have a role and contribution to play in influencing the breeding ground of society. We cannot deny that there is currently a feeling of fear and discontent, and that there is also a decline in confidence in politics. I think we are all responsible for this, but it is up to the Prime Minister in particular to see how we can reverse this. I had not understood the Prime Minister's words about the fat-I as an inclusive argument, but after his explanation I noticed that he meant his words differently. Definitely his story about people with benefits went wrong. I think it is very good that the Prime Minister has nuanced that. I think it's also part of the............................................................................................................................................................................... I'm a little less satisfied with the following. I asked the Prime Minister to speak a little more about the problem of refugees and about companies that discriminate. I think the Prime Minister underestimates the influence of his role as an example and also his so-called binding leadership. I think this society really needs that. We have a cabinet in which the PvdA and the VVD disagree on important issues. A prime minister must be above that and show binding leadership, especially on subjects like this, which we consider so important to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u160	Mr De Graaf and Mr Kuzu also signed off on the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. If you're in a debate, you don't run away, but I didn't think the subject was very suitable for this stage. A discussion about standards and values is not done by catching flies, but by sharing with each other and by starting the discussion with each other in a normal way. So you don't get what it has been: a fluttering debate from left to right and from top to bottom, with green and ripe and no self-reflection. Eventually we come home with the same feeling as Mrs Bergkamp. We can then reflect, but in the end perhaps also very liberal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u162	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister to respond to the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u163	Mr. Chairman. Before I get there, I would like to comment on Mr Van der Staaij. I think that his summary of what I have tried to explain in this debate is correct, but he still forces me to make two additional comments. Firstly, one on freedom of expression, which is indeed very broad in the Netherlands; Mr Van der Staaij is right to do so. This freedom finds its limits in inciting hatred and violence, but it is also extremely broad. I agree with him that there is also a limit in the person himself: not everything that can be said needs to be said; there is also something like your personal decency, your upbringing, a brake that you can put yourself on what you say. So you can say almost anything, but it is absolutely true that in a decent society people themselves seek the limit in their own opinions about normal behavior. That is up to the people, not the legislator or the judge. It's up to the people themselves. Then I'll get to the waterboards. They are, of course, territorial by definition, because they follow the river basins of the Dutch rivers. You can't have it much more territorially. Then I come to the motion. I'd like to dissuade these. This debate is on a very different subject. The cabinet is in the process of coming up with a number of ideas on how to tackle this very big issue. So the motion is actually more in line with the debate that will take place next week and not with this debate. That's why I don't recommend the motion. I would like to thank the Chamber for the extremely pleasant discussion. I do not go into everything that has been said in the second term. No questions asked. The comments made also fit in with the various contributions in the first instalment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-7.u164	Next Tuesday we will vote on the motion tabled. On the schedule is a VAO scheduled at 18.00, with subsequent votes. I'm gonna see if we can get started a little early, but I don't know if that's gonna work. Keep an eye on the bell.
