ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would once again like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We live in a strange time. Worldwide, the economy is in full swing, yet the world is more unstable than ever. The enormous numbers of refugees are a consequence of that. They are pressing us with the nose on the facts. We are confronted with something that seemed to be a far-from-your-bed show at first, but that is not really. In fact, we have long been part of the problem. We have discussed the issue of refugees in detail over the last few weeks. There are many aspects to it, including financial ones, and that is why I think we should also talk about this in the General Financial Reviews. We may disagree in the Chamber on many things, but there is one thing we agree on, and that is that reception in the region should be much better. Last week it was decided that the European Member States will make 1 billion extra available for better reception in Syria's neighbouring countries. I wonder if that's enough. Actually, I don't think it's enough, given the billions that are needed. How can the 1 billion be made available quickly? How is the 1 billion distributed among the countries? And how is the Minister going to reserve money on his budget for this? I have always heard the Prime Minister say that so much is being done, but I do not see any increase in the development cooperation budget. Isn't that necessary? Especially in view of the huge savings made in recent years. You can't hide behind it that other countries seem to be doing even less? By the way, which countries are these? And how are these countries addressed? As I said, economically, things have been going pretty well around the world for a while. It is quite good that this cabinet has managed to keep that growth out of the way for so long. Looking back at the beginning of the crisis in 2008, we can see that there was considerable growth in our neighbouring countries. In England this growth was 7% and in Germany 6%. Mr President, you will allow me to finish the block? I see that Mr Nijboer is already eager to interrupt. What was that like in the Netherlands during that period? Growth in the Netherlands was 0% throughout that period. So we have actually stood still for seven years in terms of economic growth. The economy recovers more slowly than after the great depression of the early 1930s. That should give the cabinet a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	I congratulate Mr Merkies on the beginning of his story, because he actually says that the international refugee crisis is the biggest problem of our time; that is why he started it. I would like to pay tribute to the fact that there is a counter-budget of the SP. Last year we had discussions about this. I am surprised that the counter-budget does not show anything of the international crisis. Half a billion is being cut back on international security. There are 300 million cuts in defence, while the government is paying extra money for it. How does Mr Merkies bring together the words from the beginning of these General Financial Reviews, which are entirely right and which everyone will understand, with the cuts he makes on all fronts of international security?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	I am surprised that Mr Nijboer is coming forward here. He stands in front of a cabinet that has cut back 1.75 billion on development cooperation; that is really a huge amount and the PvdA supports it. We invest in development cooperation. We have earmarked 100 million for this, and that amount can of course also go to the refugee problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	I recognise that there is 100 million for development cooperation, but what is also needed is the fight against IS. Whatever is necessary is the investment in defence. Whatever is needed is international missions to fight the misery in the world. The PvdA is an international party, which also includes international solidarity, and I do not see that in any way in the counter-budget of the SP. Well, then I'll find a hard start if you cut half a billion bucks on that yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Nijboer is also calling for defence. We also spend more on defence on balance; only, we spend less on it than the cabinet wants. We make other choices; we do not, for example, focus on the expensive JSF, to name but a few. We do believe that money should go to the refugee problem. We have earmarked money for this in August, as we know, because then the numbers will be delivered. Since then, the flow of refugees has increased enormously, so I think that this will require considerable money. I ask the cabinet to make money available for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	We now have the General Financial Reviews and Mr Merkies did indeed talk about the asylum issue, but does he know what an asylum seeker actually costs the treasury, society, the taxpayer? Does he even know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	I do not know exactly what an asylum seeker costs, but I do know that if asylum seekers come to the Netherlands, you cannot leave them to their fate, which the PVV does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	But you have to be able to afford it. You're inviting these people here. You lay down the red carpet for them and you don't have a budget to catch those people. That's mean. You must have some cover to catch those people. Every asylum seeker costs €36,000 in the first year. And then there is a social housing, a benefit, education, care and the children that happen. So it costs capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	In the last month 11,000 asylum seekers came into this country. That's 400 million euros. This finance minister says no matter what it costs. He's handing out a blank check.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	Where is the coverage of the SP that says here generously "all come in," but doesn't realize that every asylum visitor costs the taxpayer €36,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	The question is whether there is shelter for these people. The money for this comes from, among other things, the budget of Development Cooperation and of Security and Justice. We also invest heavily in both parts. Mr Van Dijck does not want to spend money on asylum seekers. He's actually saying, "Find out," go back. I feel almost personally attacked by this and I will explain why. My mother came to this country once as a refugee. Fortunately, she has been welcomed here with open arms, which has enabled her to build her life here. That's why I'm standing here, for example. I'm glad she was well taken care of at the time. I do not think Mr Van Dijck realizes how important it is to be welcomed with open arms when fleeing violence and war. I don't think he realizes at all what it means to run away and leave home and fire because you don't feel at home in your own country anymore. Mr Van Dijck, I find that embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we have a debate on the refugee issue almost every week. I can imagine that there are questions about finances, but I would ask you all to confine yourselves to the subject we are discussing today, namely the General Financial Reviews. Mr Van Dijck, you have the floor. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	It is indeed General Financial Reviews. The asylum system is a financial disaster for the Netherlands, and that is what we need to talk about today. That's going to cost us billions that we can't afford. The situation is untenable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	What's your question? An interruption is a question. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	You indicate something, namely that it is the General Financial Reviews, and I reply to that. We are talking about a lot of money. And I...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	What do you mean "thank you"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	You need to ask a question. That's what the interruptions are about, Mr Van Dijck. You do not have a debate for the first time, you know exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	I do not yet open my mouth or you ask: what is your question, what is your question? Will you stop that? We are working on the General Financial Reviews! Mr Merkies is making a personal statement about his mother, and I would like to give it to his mother. However, the SP must also have a sense of reality: we cannot bring all of Africa and all of Syria here. That's the bankruptcy of the Netherlands. That's how realistic the SP is, isn't it? Or does the SP say, "Let everyone come here, we'll get out of the way and we'll sleep under a tree?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	This was not a question either, this was an argument. You are free to say what you think, but do so on your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u24	For example, Mr Van Dijck says: these migrants take the places of all those people who do not get a home. I find that absurd, because the PVV has made sure that the social housing stock is sold and that there is no addition because of the landlord's tax. That's a bit like the little boy setting a fire, a pyromaniac, and then a little further down the road "Brand! Fire!" I'm gonna scream.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u25	Please continue with your speech, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u26	Can I give a proper answer to Mr Van Dijck's question? I find it embarrassing that Mr Van Dijck treats refugees and asylum seekers like dirt, because that is what is happening. I was at the point where we've been recovering so badly since the Great Depression. However, let us focus on the positive. I think it is positive that we are finally getting something from the international wind. It's very necessary for some people. The crisis has hit some hard. A lot of SMEs have lost their jobs, a lot of people have lost their jobs and the hardest hits have hit them. It is precisely the most vulnerable groups that have been in decline for years, such as the elderly and the social minimums that do not have a job, that are not making any progress. 840,000 of them are even going backwards, contrary to what is being said by the king. In the written answers we received this week, it says that for the period 2013-2016, the highest incomes are in excess of plus and the benefit recipients and pensioners are declining by almost 1% and more than 2.5% respectively. Does the Minister think that's acceptable? I had hoped that in times when it is really hard, the poorest would be spared and I am surprised that the opposite is happening. By the way, you can see that happening in several countries. In May of this year, José Ángel Gurría, the Secretary-General of the OECD, informed us that inequality in the OECD countries has reached the highest point since the measurements began. The inequality has never been so great. Gurría shows how it affects growth, but more importantly it shows how it affects people's development potential and their well-being. You would say that the cabinet in the Netherlands received some of that, but in the 5 billion package you see nothing of that. This package increases inequality, as we see in Macro Economic Recognition. The 5 billion-dollar gift feast reminds me a little of the Foolish Days. Gifts are also distributed on a large scale; that is the last time, because they stop. It's kind of the same here. This is the last time before the election. I can see it. There is something called: there is an advantage on the third floor! Diederik Samsom quickly runs upstairs to get some foreparts for the poor, but there is a broad grinning Halbe Zijlstra, who has already removed all the foreparts for the rich. For some reason, the VVD keeps running off with it. The 5 billion package is a missed opportunity. It should be the lubricating oil for the revision of the tax system. It has not come from a review, but the lubricating oil has been thrown overboard. I can hardly think of a better metaphor for the missed opportunity to green the tax system. The cabinet is appealing against the Urgenda ruling. Does the government still have the ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands by a quarter by 2020? Will the cabinet achieve that objective and, if so, how? With what message and with what good example will it go to the Paris climate summit? The revision of the tax system is also a missed opportunity for the taxation of capital. The fact that the proposals reduce the regressive nature of the current capital return tax is a step in the right direction, and I am not going to take anything away from that, but it is also a missed opportunity, because there is no shift from labour to capital, which is much needed. The CPB report, which was published at the end of last week, shows once again how far we are going with other countries, to the advantage of capital and to the disadvantage of labour. It is also a missed opportunity because the real return on capital is not taxed. Why can the real return on capital be taxed in other countries? The cabinet does not see this step as a terminal, I read in the Tax Plan. Last Friday, Secretary of State Wiebes said that in 2020 the possibility to base the tax on the actual return will again be looked at. We are not going to introduce a complex system of fictitious returns for a few years, and only then will we replace it with a tax system based on actual returns? How about we do it right in one go? I guess it's possible. Why should we wait for this intermediate station? Why don't we go straight to the terminal? Is there at least an attempt to set up that terminal? Can we get a look at that or does the cabinet not do anything and transfer the hot potato to the next cabinet? The 5 billion does not end up with those who really need it. That is all the more important when we know that care for the elderly is being cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'd still like to continue on the capital tax. I almost seem to taste that the SP wants to postpone this measure, while in every debate over the past year I was encouraged to make that capital tax fairer and introduce a progressive rate. Mr Bashir has always said that the small saver pays far too much. Now 90% of the capitals, those with the lowest capitals, go ahead and 10%, the capitals with the highest capitals, will have to pay more. After all, they have more returns. And then the SP seems to run away. I can't believe it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u28	I just started with the compliment that it is a step in the right direction. I hope that Mr Nijboer has heard the same thing. In fact, it does not have a progressive but rather a regressive character. It'll be reduced a little bit. That is a positive step. It's just not the step that's really needed. I have given two important reasons. We are extremely out of step internationally, because our capital is taxed very low and labour is very high. The opinion of the CPB and many economists is to correct that. The other point is the taxation of actual returns. I think the PvdA was in favour of that too, but apparently she didn't get it through. What surprises me is that it is said that we will be able to look at it again by 2020. In 2020! Then why not now? I say do it now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u29	We directly agree that taxation of real returns would have been optimal. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour of this, even today. But Mr Merkies has also read the answer. It's impossible for the IRS to do that now. The PvdA is not a party that will say: we will wait and we will see in 2020 if we can make the capital tax fairer. The PvdA wants to take a step in that direction immediately. Do I understand correctly that Mr Merkies welcomes this step and is therefore also in favour of this part of the Tax Plan, although he would prefer to see it, as would the PvdA and, in my view, almost all parties in the Chamber that real returns would be taxed? If he opposes this, the SP is completely lost in terms of capital taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think it is a step in the right direction. Mr Nijboer says: like almost all parties in the Chamber. Then I say, let's do it right at once. He shouldn't let himself be talked into not being able to. According to the CPB's report and according to various fiscalists, it is possible. There is now a lot of digital recording. There is already a great deal to be kept for the capital efficiency levy. All that data is just known to banks. So it's possible. Besides, if we can do it in a few years, we can do it now. In other countries, it can also be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u31	I have a small correction to Mr Nijboer's words. Capital taxes were abolished about 15, 16, 17 years ago. It's about the capital efficiency tax in box 3, as we've known it since 2001. I have another question for Mr Merkies. If the point of departure of the SP is that you would have to tax the actual return in box 3, does this mean that if the interest rate rises to 4 or 5%, the small savers who, with their assets, with their savings account, are just above the threshold, will actually have to pay tax on that higher interest rate? We don't have a glass ball. It could be that interest rates are going to rise again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u32	What we have proposed is a millionaire tax. It doesn't go in until 1 million. At least I don't want to talk about small savers. In general, you can say that if you make more returns, you also pay more taxes on them. That's taxing actual returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u33	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u34	That's a clear answer. Mr. Chairman. You say to me quite quickly: finally. I don't know how many times we're allowed to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u35	I did not limit it to a maximum, but the interruption goes in two: a question and then a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u36	I know: short, business questions and no debate. A final question, then. The fictitious yield in box 3 means that if you have high returns, you don't pay more than the fictitious return. So here you have something to gain on both sides of the coin. Isn't there something to be said for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u37	People with a lot of power just get a higher return. Now one tries to do something through a very complicated system of fictitious returns on different capital titles, which are then constantly adjusted. Apparently that happens for a few years. Then we move on to a system of taxation of actual returns. I'd say do it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u38	I will also have questions in my contribution about why this is not possible, but we know this Secretary of State. He's gonna stand like a terrier in front of the IRS. I do not think it is unlikely that the Secretary of State will say immediately: it is either this or we are going to postpone it for three years and then move on to the real return in one go. What's the SP's choice? Are we already looking at the capital efficiency levy or are we going to put it up for three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u39	If Mrs Schouten puts it that way, I say it in general: we support an improvement. However, I am not going to argue for half a solution here. I am in favour of the whole solution. I am convinced that it is now possible and that it is wasted money to first set up a expensive system for a few years and then switch to a new system. I think we can do it now. This has also been shown in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u40	We will also put that last question to the Secretary of State, but do I understand that, in my view, that is also the point of Mr Nijboer's question, if there is no other way, the SP agrees with the amendment to the capital efficiency levy now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u41	If there is an improvement in comparison with the present situation, we support it, but I regret that we do not immediately go for the terminal. I was just talking about cutting back on care for the elderly. This week is the week of loneliness. Especially among the elderly, there is a lot of loneliness. A lot of people feel lonely. The billion-dollar cuts in nursing homes, which make it impossible for people to enter that nursing home, day-use and home-care, are certainly not helping to solve that loneliness. What is the Minister's answer to that? I am thinking in this context of carers, who are willingly and for nothing committed to the care of others, to those who move in with their parents to take care of them. All these people you have to cherish and put on a pedestal. The household care fine, which imposes a penalty on it by a discount on the AOW, is therefore a major disgrace on this cabinet. The Minister is unworthy of the fact that this minister in the country is going to announce to his own PvdA constituency that the care allowance is off the job, while he is scheduled to go straight to 2018 at the latest. That is messing with the lives of 60,000 elderly people who are in great uncertainty and to whom false hope is given. If the cabinet continues to persevere in this, is this minister prepared to make a very big excuse towards all the elderly he has given false hope? The only right choice at the moment is: finally take action now and get rid of the household allowance, today. Special attention should be paid this year to the budget for security and justice, not the most excellent one, according to Mr Zijlstra. Well, that's an understatement. I suspect that this year's discussion of the budget for security and justice will be a triptych. Today we are dealing with Part 2. We have already discussed it in the General Political Reviews. At that time there was frequent reference to the General Financial Reviews, because this would have been resolved. Let's just walk it by. I'll start with the police. Policemen have been on the line since 2011. This means, in real terms, that they go backwards every year. The cigar-out-of-own-doo agreement makes that decline far from good. In addition, the main players, the FNV and the police unions, were put out cold. At the request of the Chamber, the discussions started, but the question is whether the Minister of Security and Justice is now being sent out with an empty wallet. Has this been discussed with the Minister of Finance? I come now to the more overarching issue, namely that there is a shortage of all parts of Security and Justice. With the National Police, there's the 230 million hole because of the reorganisation. This amount may eventually be paid by the organisation itself, but where does this money come from? Let us not forget that the police are already faced with a structural austerity call of nearly half a billion. Furthermore, we have the huge cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office, where, during Rutte I and II, more than 20% of the entire budget is being cut, at a time when we are dealing with extremism and new forms of crime, such as fraud via the Internet. The possible consequences? Things that remain on the shelf or lack quality. This was also apparent from the shocking report that came to the Chamber on the occasion of Princess Day. Will the Minister insist that austerity is feasible without lowering the ambitions? Does he recognize what's in the report? The researchers say that a delay in cuts is absolutely necessary and that this will cost 50 million. Does the Minister agree and how will he take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u42	Are the SP colleagues themselves coming up with an amendment to solve this problem? We now have the General Financial Reviews. I assume that Mr Merkies agrees with me that money must then be transferred from another budget to the budget of Security and Justice. The royal road is to do that here. So is Mr Merkies coming up with a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u43	I think this is necessary and I will address the Minister. I see that there are gaps on a number of points. For example, revenue has been deducted while in reality there are no revenue. I will come up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u44	We also have questions about Security and Justice. We too believe that the figures are being looked at too brightly and that more money should be provided for the police and the public prosecutor and so on. You could also say to the government: solve the problem. It's actually a government problem itself. Should we not say to the government: this is a huge problem, surely the government should see that? Isn't it wise for the government to solve that itself? Or should we come from the Chamber with an initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u45	You are right on both points. If the cabinet drops holes, it's not up to us to fill those holes. Of course, we can share our thoughts on what is possible. I'll make a proposal for that. I'm coming up on one of those holes now. For next year, 38 million in additional revenue has already been raised, from an increase in the Registry fees, and the proposal to that effect has to go through both Chambers. The support in the First Chamber is not certain at all. What illusion is this based on? What kind of budget rule allows this way of yourself to count richly? Then there are the cuts in justice. Those too have great consequences. I mention the seven courts that are in danger of being stripped. It is true that it is said that we are postponing it, but the money still needs to be made available. The Dutch Forensic Institute has to do with a 14% cut. The demand for trace research, for example, cannot be dealt with at this stage. In this way, we face the vital risk that crimes will not be cleared up as a result of the cuts. More ambition is needed on almost all parts of Security and Justice. That doesn't always have to cost money. An investment in financial investigations can earn itself double and cross-revenue. Crime is often about money. Billions of money are made in, among other things, the trafficking of drugs and illegal weapons and in trafficking in human beings. Now the Secretary of State for Security and Justice says he wants to take away 100 million a year. Compared to the total amount of money earned in crime, such a sum is peanuts. If we really want crime not to pay any more, we need to increase the number of financial detectives as soon as possible. I will table a motion to that effect in my second term. Is the Minister prepared to embrace this idea and significantly increase the level of ambition? Society is also asking for this, witnessing the appeal of 12 mayors and the Public Prosecutor's Office. One thing is clear: there is not enough money for the organisations responsible for safety in the Netherlands. The General Reviews included the names of the spokesmen of the entire opposition under the Roemer motion calling on the government to release necessary financial resources for the budget of Security and Justice and to inform the Chamber of the Financial Reviews. One thing is clear: moving from one deficit in Security and Justice to another deficit in Security and Justice is certainly not helping. In doing so, we must bear in mind that not all the setbacks have been booked. That is why we cannot wait for the budget of security and justice to be dealt with. The Chamber needs to be clarified now. That is why, in the first term of the government, the Minister should not come forward with the argument that he wants to wait for the results of all kinds of investigations and committees. Today we are discussing how the money is distributed. So today must also be clear. There is a minimum of 200 million, but probably even more needed in security and justice. Is the Minister prepared to release that amount? The Prime Minister said he heard the entire opposition right. The cabinet will be aware of the relations across the street, in the First Chamber. In short, I am very curious to see what the cabinet comes up with. It is essential to make the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr. Chairman. The 2016 budget is a sober, solid budget. With these words, the cabinet submitted the plans to the House of Representatives. Now I also like to keep my head cool in politics, but a little miracle is this budget. After all, over the past five years, it has been a bit sadly debated here at the General Financial Reviews. The economic crisis was deep, and sometimes we all felt that we were standing with our backs against the wall to get the economy and public finances back on their feet. This has been the case here, as long as I have been standing here, every year about cuts, reforms and, unfortunately, sometimes also about tax increases. That was the jargon here at the Binnenhof. For the people at home it meant that it became more difficult to make ends meet. Sometimes it meant loss of work. For many it meant that facilities that were always experienced as free were no longer available. Or they would have to be paid for from now on. In the meantime, the housing market and consumer spending were in a solid state. You also saw a typical Dutch phenomenon. The Social and Cultural Planning Agency wrote a few years ago that we tend to overreact here in the Netherlands. So the people who could have moved didn't do that anymore. 'Cause then you'd get a little pissed off at a birthday party. Everyone was keeping the money in line. These are all very understandable reactions to what happened to our country. The downside of that we see now. Now that we're doing well, we're doing even better every quarter than we thought. Dutch people are not only gloomy when things are bad, but also real optimists when things are moving forward. Result: the growth expectations of the economy have been revised each time in the past four quarters and public finances are developing in a correspondingly more positive way. And it is now going well across the board: exports, business investment and consumer spending are fully contributing to the growth of the economy. The good news is: all efforts were not for nothing, they have had results. Growth is getting higher than we have seen in eight years and more people are getting jobs, although unemployment is falling only slowly. That is why there must also be more jobs for the many job seekers. Of course critics say: that recovery was not the fault of the cabinet. The oil price is lower, money is cheap, the world economy is running better et cetera. Of course, it is not all because of the cabinet, because first of all it is thanks to citizens and businesses, who were buffing around in difficult times. But to the critics who blamed the cabinet a few years ago for all the malaise, which, of course, was not true, the cabinet can now, of course, get the credits for the right measures at the right time. In addition: yes, there is wind, but you can also ruin wind. Look at France. All this positive news translates directly into the 2016 budget. A year ago we were cautiously positive about the development in the Netherlands and we expected that in a few years we could release perhaps 3 to 5 billion for a tax reduction. It's almost astounding how fast that worked in barely a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr Harbers is right to point out that there are a few external factors that are rather heavily contributing to the relatively favourable financial picture of this moment. He does not mention one, namely the ECB, which is repressing huge amounts of euros. That also helps a bit. But does Mr Harbers not agree with me that, when you have such a fragile recovery with a picture of the resilience to shocks of the Dutch financial situation that is certainly not rosy, the Millions note sketches that clearly it is quite unwise to simply put that little bit of budget space that you are right into a simple burden relief rather than investing strategically for structural improvement of your economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u48	I already indicated that money is cheap. I didn't think the policy was very thrilling, just to put it euphemistically. Anyway, that's a bit of wind. No, I do not agree with Mr Grashoff. I think it is justified what is happening now, and I shall go into that further. Moreover, this budgetary area is not only intended for tax cuts, but also for a number of other things that we are stepping up. After all these difficult years, I am happy to look at the citizen as well to see where he or she was hit in the wallet and say: the government does not need that money, we give it back to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u49	Isn't that a little cheap for those civilians? As is well known, there is only a moment in the Chinese economy where there are other possibilities for the ECB to stop printing money, to increase interest rates or to increase oil prices, and that whole effect is simply gone. Doesn't tax relief have the character of: I'm just giving it away and I'm not thinking about real structural improvement in our economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u50	That would be it if the deficit were to rise, but it will fall sharply next year. Furthermore, it would be if we didn't have any kind of shock resistance, but we do. We have reformed in such a way that, even in a few years' time, there will be a surplus in the budget. In addition to all the risks in the world, we can also see a positive trend, namely that in this part of Europe, despite what China has done in recent months, things are still going well. That's not what I'm taxing. However, if unexpected shocks occur, it is always possible, at any time, for the cabinet to come up with an adequate response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u52	I already indicated how astonishingly quickly, in barely a year, we managed to free up money for a tax cut. And there could be more! The cabinet has made a sound budget in which disappointments such as the reduced gas benefits have been properly met, in which mins in purchasing power for older people have been repaired and a lot of money has been made available for the two priorities of the VVD: tax reduction and defense. It's okay, but it tastes like more, I say right away. So I must say that tax cuts and defence and security are without prejudice to the priorities of the VVD if the recovery continues in the years to come and there is still more room for manoeuvre. The 2016 budget is dominated primarily by the substantial tax reduction of EUR 5 billion, an unprecedented amount. Frankly, that was also high time after the last difficult years in which everyone felt the economic problems in their own wallet. Now that there is room, we want to give the money back to the people in the country, so that many progress and the money does not stay in The Hague. At least it won't be able to go to new government hobbies. The VVD therefore fully supports this tax reduction and its distribution, emphasising a reduction in income tax. It makes work more rewarding. More jobs need to be created in order to speed up the decline in unemployment. Also, there are still some things to be desired. I hope, for example, that the Minister and the Secretary of State have looked at the answer to question 7 in the Millions Note, namely the difference in net income between a family with a breadwinner with a gross monthly salary of €2,366 and a family of which both partners are in the assistance. The difference between the two families has increased slightly, but it is still small: less than €2,000 a year, apart from local waivers and discount schemes. The step to work must be waged and the prevention of poverty falls will continue to require a great deal of attention in the coming years. In dealing with the SZW budget, my colleagues will go into this further, but I would like to ask the question of how the cabinet views this. Would the cabinet consider the whole problem of poverty trap in its entirety? Now Wonen and Rijksdienst are investigating the rent allowance and at Social Security and Employment there is still a motion on streamlining income schemes. Now put those things together and see where you can fight poverty trap, so I ask the cabinet. In addition to all the great news about tax reduction, there are also some other adjustments, such as the integration of the RDA and the WBSO into a single tax scheme for promoting research and development. My group will deal with all these matters when it comes to the Tax Plan, but there is one aspect that stands out, namely the change in the capital efficiency levy. Let me start with the view that the VVD prefers not to see any capital taxes at all. However, I am realistic enough to see that it is difficult to abolish her. After all, if we have a lot of money available for tax cuts, it is also a little more attractive for us to reduce income tax and employers' costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u53	Last week the CPB published a very interesting study on this issue. I assume that Mr Harbers has seen it, too. It calls for even more taxation on capital, capital, return, dividend and so on, and for all this money to be returned to lower labour costs. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u54	I disagree. This is now and it is difficult to get rid of it, but I do not want to take the step towards further enlargement in order to reduce income tax. The best way to reduce income tax is less money for the government. But you must be used to that from a liberal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u55	Indeed, I am used to that dream thinking from some liberals. It is a serious consideration: you can choose where to place the tax. Of course, we can discuss less expenditure, but if Mr Harbers should make a choice, would he not prefer that we reduce the burden on good things such as work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u56	No, Mr. Chairman, I don't agree with that anymore. I just indicated that I prefer not to see any capital taxes at all. However, it is difficult to get rid of it. I will start a long speech in which I will explain what I think of the current proposals. In any case, I do not want the capital tax to be increased. Because the government no longer needs 5 billion, it has managed to achieve lower taxes on labour and income. That tastes like more, so I think we should achieve this in other ways over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u57	While I am listening to this little interruption debate, I am wondering what the argument is. I see that more often when it comes to the dogmas of the VVD. At the end of the day, there is no argument in any way. Mr Harbers keeps coming back to this: we are not in favour of capital taxing. Why not? Can Mr Harbers explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u58	We can fill the time by fighting each other's dogmas until 4:00 p.m. I know a few of them from GroenLinks. Why do we not want to tax wealth? In most cases, capital is money that has already been taxed. That's why we'd rather not burden it. However, we accept that capital tax exists. It is not easy to get rid of the current capital return tax. If there's money available, we'd rather do other things with it. The essence of our answer, however, is that tax has already been paid on it once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Harbers lives in the same world as me, doesn't he? He knows as well as I do that there's a lot more money being earned from having wealth than just working hard. Having wealth creates enormous revenue and we want to tax it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u60	This revenue flow is also taxed, but as far as I am concerned it is not up to the level that GroenLinks advocates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u61	But Mr Harbers says he wants to abolish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u62	Preferably yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u63	The VVD talks about tax reduction and tax relief. However, it was the VVD that increased VAT and excise duties, which, to date, supports 52% income tax and wants to gradually tax the assets next year. How does Mr Harbers reconcile this with his liberal principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u64	First of all, by peeling off all the nonsense of Mr Van Klaveren. Capital taxes are not becoming progressive. Everything remains at the same rate of 30%. The highest rate of 52% on income will fall in the coming years, partly as a result of the refund of the mortgage interest rate deduction. The second and third disc grow towards each other and go down, so there is also a small part of the flat tax that Mr.Van Klaveren advocates. I have already indicated at the beginning that it has unfortunately been necessary to increase taxes, because of the huge financial task this country has been facing since 2010. Now that it is possible, we are taking the first step towards reducing taxes again. It's that simple and it tastes like more. I hope that many further steps will be taken in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u65	It would be very nice if the taxes actually went down. But the VVD really increased the excise duty. The VVD really increased the VAT. The VVD still supports the 52% income tax. Next year it is the intention of the VVD to gradually tax the assets. Mr Harbers denies that, but luckily he was laughed at. My point is that Mr Harbers' desire for greater economic freedom for the individual is totally incompatible with these increases. How does Mr Harbers rhyme with those increases with the story he's aiming for lower taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Van Klaveren isn't listening. I have said both in my speech and in my reply that it has unfortunately also been necessary to raise taxes. We didn't like that. The best result is, however, that our country is back in Europe's leading group in terms of growth. That's because we've got our greenhouse back in order. That gives a lot of confidence to the rest of the economy. Now it is time to go on the road of reducing taxes. That's very liberal. It would not have been liberal if we had said three or four years ago: drop the deficit and the debt, we will find out in a few years' time. In that case, we could have avoided a few tax increases, but the economic malaise would not have been overcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u67	I fully agree with Mr Harbers. I don't think you should burden your assets. But that's not the point of the discussion either. It is not a question of taxing capital, it is a question of taxing return on capital. This creates revenue. Is it such a crazy idea to tax labour and capital as much as possible? It doesn't matter which source the money comes from, but it's about the income someone has. That's where we put the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u68	I couldn't agree more. I was about to start a long speech, a warm plea for taxing the real return. I suspect we all agree on that. Now it's about how we get there. As far as I am concerned, the three years referred to by the Secretary of State is a transitional period. After these three years, we have reached the point of taxing the real rate of return. Then we have achieved exactly what Mr Dijkgraaf is describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u69	I welcome that answer, because that is what my second question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u70	This way we can save time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u72	Yes, but I also have a more specific question. Does Mr Harbers not think that, in order, for example, to prevent all kinds of circumvention structures, we should offer a clear perspective towards the future and say that this is a transitional period, but that we should move towards a real return in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u73	Sure. I think this is already in the explanatory statement. It is not for nothing that we talk about an evaluation after three years. I too have a few questions about this in a moment. In my view, we should have that clear final perspective in two days' time, let us say that at the end of this decade we can draw on the real rate of return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u74	Before we move on to the capital and return levy, I would like to return to the jobs. Mr Harbers rightly says that unemployment is still a very big problem in the Netherlands. Last year there was a beautiful letter from the Secretary of State stating that 100,000 additional jobs would be created through a tax reform. Now we see the plans and we see that only 35,000 jobs are involved. The question is, where did the rest of the jobs go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u75	The rest of those jobs stayed in two places. A year ago, the CPB model at the time involved 100,000 jobs. We all know that the CPB came up with a new method a few months later and that the number of 100,000 jobs went down. In addition, this is not the major tax reform in which we are shifting 15 billion. This is a reduction of 5 billion, also with excellent results, i.e. 35,000 new jobs. That's where the jobs stayed. In order to complete the answer completely: there is no major tax reform because we in this Chamber, Mr Koolmees, did not agree on this very simply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u76	That's the answer I expected...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u77	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u78	... alibi to return something to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u79	No, no, I say, "we in this room."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u80	Last year, the government's ambition was wonderful: 100,000 jobs and a reform of the system with all kinds of concrete measures, which I remember, I say, was eight options with which we would make a major impact in tackling unemployment, which is indeed the big problem of our time. The State Secretary's plans included, for example, the decentralised tax area. That would create 20,000 to 30,000 jobs. The Minister responded very positively to these plans. Two weeks ago, together with Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP Group, we tabled a motion on this point, but the VVD Group voted against it. So what are Mr Harbers' words about jobs worth when the VVD Group is walking away from concrete proposals on jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u81	This is too easy. Among the eight proposals put forward by the Secretary of State are matters that are of great concern to us and matters that we say: if we can all agree on, then we will not stand in the way of them, in view of the great objective we want to achieve, namely that major tax reform. In the meantime, however, there are many groups that are going to stand in the way of major tax reforms. Mr Koolmees should not blame us for not supporting a partial plan which we are not very enthusiastic about, but which we would have liked to talk about in the context of the big picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u82	I heard Mr Harbers say between his nose and his lips that we are in the lead in growth in Europe. I hear this a lot, but that's just not right. Mr Harbers has read the answer to Question 4, hasn't he? Growth in the Netherlands is indeed 0.1% above the European average this year, so for this year Mr Harbers could be right, even if we are just above the average. Next year, however, we will be well below it again. If I look at all the previous years, I see that with our growth we are far below the average in Europe. Mr Harbers cannot say that we are in the leading group in terms of growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u83	I can do that. In the coming year there will be 2.5% growth. It is in the answer to question 4 which contains the figures from the spring. These figures were subsequently adjusted positively, at least the figures for the Netherlands; the figures for a large number of countries have been adjusted much less positively. Mr Merkies must also read the footnote to the answer to question 4. The new figures will come in November. We expect an upward adjustment, as does the Central Planning Office in the Cordelia. Then it looks fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u84	I have seen this upward adjustment and I find it totally misleading. There is only an upward adjustment for the Netherlands and not for all other countries. I am relying on the official figures of Eurostat and the European Commission. Over a long period of time, they constantly show that the Netherlands is bumping behind in growth. I have already said that growth has stopped in the last seven years. All our neighbouring countries have grown during that period. Mr Harbers should not then make the point that we are in the leading group. Far from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u85	The Netherlands has done worse than Europe during the low point of the crisis, when sentiment was also bad here. We were in the bottom half then. The Netherlands is currently going to the leading group. You can tell by all these numbers. I think we should cherish that and not talk ourselves into it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr Harbers rightly points out that unemployment is still far too high. I don't see any plans from the Cabinet to reduce that unemployment. We have read that the amount of 5 billion will create 7 000 jobs next year. That's seven tons a job, that's a very expensive job. The question is, of course, what concrete action plans are there to help these people get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u87	Let us make no mistake: this 5 billion will lead to millions of people, millions of households in this country having more purchasing power. That's what it's gonna do. In addition, it also ultimately provides 35,000 jobs in this model. I'm not from the school that says there's gonna be big job plans. The best job plan for this economy has been that we have put the economy and public finances back in order in recent years. This creates an environment in which investment can be re-invested. If we look at next year, we must also look at exactly what is going on and why unemployment is falling so little. There are plenty of jobs, but if you get out of the economic malaise, more people are coming into the labour market. This is in itself a positive phenomenon. School drop-outs who chose to start with additional training or people who were at home and who might have wanted to work, but who did not even register as jobseekers, are now looking for new jobs. This is a better reason for the small fall in unemployment than for companies to fire a mass of people. I believe that we should give this recovery a further chance and then we will see from 2017 that unemployment is falling even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u88	270,000 people, older people, 45-plussers have been looking for jobs for over a year in vain. This cabinet has no answer to that. It now gives the people a few tens back in their wallet after stealing a few hundred euros in recent years. The cabinet now says: be happy with this dead sparrow. The people sitting on the couch at home want a job, they want security and a perspective on work. Couldn't Mr Harbers have taken much better other measures with the 5 billion that would make the economy grow even faster? We have now been able to read that this 5 billion is generating only 0.2% growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u89	I am extremely curious to hear from Mr Van Dijck what he would have done with EUR 5 billion to get many more people to work. I believe that this is a sensible choice. We must give the recovery a chance, because that will ultimately create real jobs. I am far too afraid that if we put 5 billion into job plans, that would create jobs that have evaporated in a few years' time. I will come back to a lot of things that we can do even better for the competitiveness of the Netherlands. I'm going back to the capital return tax. The real problem is the fictitious rate of return of 4%. This return is no longer achieved by a lot of people at this time, and that is therefore seen as unfair. The VVD therefore prefers to see a tax on the real, the really achieved return. The new system is probably closer to this because it is based on the statistical averages in the different power classes. However, the disadvantage of statistical averages is also that they do not approach many people's own reality. So it still has the disadvantage of a flat-rate system. You could say that the new system is a little more refined and less unjust, but we are not yet there despite the real benefits. There are. I would like to mention an increase in the exemption, a lower supposed return on savings and, above all, the fact that the supposed returns go year by year with sentiment on the stock exchange and with the bank. A lower return on the market therefore means paying less tax. And yes, the opposite will happen. So the VVD prefers to go to tax on real return. The Secretary of State wants to evaluate the system after three years. In the opinion of the VVD, we do not even have to wait and are already being used over the next three years to overcome the practical objections to taxing real returns. The new system is therefore, as far as the VVD is concerned, at most a three-year transition on the road there. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the assessment and the process at the Tax Administration are fully organised on this? If the evaluation shows that taxing real returns is not yet entirely possible, will it at least be evaluated whether this new methodology has approached real returns more? Can the Secretary of State confirm that, too? The 2016 budget is not just for us...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr Dijkgraaf, I really want Mr Harbers to finish his sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u91	I come now to a whole new subject. I'm sure that wasn't Mr Dijkgraaf's intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr Harbers is at the end of the block on the capital efficiency levy, but I think my point is about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u94	We are not going to go into detail now; that is what we are going to do when dealing with the tax plan. Is Mr Harbers prepared to take part in the debate on suffering for the next few years? Owners, for example, have leased land, but are not allowed to charge more than 2% of the value because of the Paying Decision. Legally, therefore, they are not allowed to make more than 2% of the return, but they are paid at 5.5%. It's an example. I do not really need to respond to this specific example, but a general commitment from Mr Harbers would be good. Is he willing to take a positive view of this kind of trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u95	If Mr Dijkgraaf wants promises, he must ask the Secretary of State for them in his first term. There are a lot of examples like this. We're not blind to that. The example mentioned by Mr Dijkgraaf is also valid in the current situation, with an assumed return of 4%. I can promise things here, and we are willing to study everywhere, but I also see that in a flat-rate system everyone is an exception. So the only real solution is to tax the real return. We can't do that right now, but we can in a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u96	We agree on the long term; we do not have a discussion on this. There have already been a number of cases, but the number of cases is increasing. The big question is how exactly you deal with that, but it's really weird that you're being taxed even harder when you're just legally allowed to get no more than a certain percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u97	Yeah, that's as weird as it is already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u98	I have a brief question to Mr Harbers about the capital efficiency levy. Suppose a wealthy person who invested 100 million euros in shares loses 200 million because a World Online bubble collapses. Does taxing the real rate of return in box 3, in the view of Mr Harbers, mean that he can deduct 100 million in that case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u99	Those are all issues that we have to look at. I think you should stay as close to the real return as possible. Indeed, then you also come to talk about forms of loss and the way you process it. For us, the 2016 budget is not only the budget of tax cuts and more money to Defence, but also a budget in which we look forward to the future. When offering to the Chamber, the Minister said that things were going well, but not good enough. Permanent maintenance is needed to make the Netherlands future-proof and to further strengthen competitiveness. That's what the VVD agrees with the minister. I would therefore like to give a number of examples to the Minister and Secretary of State that we must continue to work on. First of all, it is about the location climate in the Netherlands. For this, it is a good thing that the government has put its housekeeping books in order, but we must also continue to ensure that the tax authorities can continue to work towards an attractive locational environment. The BEPS project (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) of the OECD against tax avoidance is good with the Netherlands, but let's be careful not to go too far. After all, other countries are also doing everything they can to protect their locational environment. This week, for example, I heard about Germany's refusal to provide information on rulings to the TAXE Committee of the European Parliament. We like to see a level playing field everywhere. However, it is more, for example, a labour market that embraces the future, with more wishes for flexibility, rather than turning its back. Collective arrangements, such as pensions and social insurance, must respond to this. The importance of technology, smart industry and start-ups for new business should also be seen. Fortunately, these themes return to the Millions Note this time, even more so, there is a whole chapter devoted to it. In chapter 2, the cabinet has dealt with future challenges. It announces initiatives for a new pension system, a more flexible housing market and a reform of the minimum wage. It's all beautiful. On top of that, the Cabinet announced that it would release 50 million for start-ups, without any measures being taken. We are looking forward to it, because we must not waste any time here. The world increasingly consists of new products and new earning models, such as Tesla's second factory in Tilburg or Booking.com, which has become a global player on the hotel market from Dutch start-up. In short: now that we are back in the leading group of Europe, I think the VVD believes that we should do everything we can to stay there for a very long time. This means a permanent effort to increase the competitiveness of the Netherlands, to maintain the top five position in the Global Competitiveness Index we received today... we went from place eight to five....................................................................................................................................... There are two issues in budgetary engineering that will require attention in the future. The first is the estimate of tax revenue, on which the Court of Auditors published a report last week. In response to this report, the Minister states that he will give more insight into the estimates in future and will also explain when behavioural effects have been incorporated into the estimates. The link between government agreement, Start note and budgets will also be improved. However, there is one recommendation that the Minister is moving a bit towards the next formation, and that is to agree in the budgetary rules on whether or not to include behavioural effects. In itself, that is understandable, to be fair, but it would be useful if Chamber and Minister were to do some preliminary work next year, so that we have an idea of what such agreements might look like in the budgetary rules. Is the Minister prepared to work with the Chamber in the meantime? The second is the infrastructure fund and its multiannual investment programme, the MIRT. This runs until 2028. That year was chosen because of the focus on the Olympic Games in that year. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon to see that it takes ten to fifteen years to realise infrastructure, from plan to construction and opening up. With twelve more years to go in the MIRT, it is therefore already up to the end of this cabinet period to talk about extension. You can think of two possibilities. You can attach one year to it each year, or extend the planning horizon by four years per cabinet period. As far as we are concerned, this subject also comes back to the debate on the budget of I and M and the MIRT, but because of the budgetary technique it also belongs here. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. How does he see the future after 2028? Does he agree with us that we should consider extending, as it is called neatly? Which variant would it prefer? As long as I am in the future, I cannot ignore Europe. Here too, it's sunnier. Major steps have been taken in recent years. In 2016, we will see the start of the Banking Union. Together with the BRRD, it ensures that banks become normal companies. They will no longer be partly state-owned and will no longer be able to turn losses on taxpayers. That is a good thing, but that also marks a further necessary step, namely that the new relationships must be used to achieve improved lending. Where this is not possible, alternative forms of financing should be given more scope. As far as the VVD is concerned, it also includes the fact that there are not more and more rules, but above all that the sector is now embedded in a different way. It must now be put into effect. For a healthy banking sector, it is also important to further reduce the risk of contagion between banks and governments. In the Millions note, the cabinet refers to European efforts. The cabinet says that government bonds are unfairly treated risk-free and is committed to adapting European legislation in this respect. I wonder, however, whether there should be a little more speed. What is the situation in concrete terms? What initiatives does the Minister take, in his capacity as President of the Eurogroup or not, to speed this up? The same applies to the view that banks are no longer too big to fail. How does the Minister see what needs to be done there? I also have a critical note. In his offer speech, the Minister had a witty but also very complex reflection on dragons and antiquity, which meant that more European cooperation is needed. Then I'm thinking, there's the dragons. For some time now, I have felt that, although in the Netherlands, the cabinet has rightly distanced itself from the crazy long-term ideas of the Five Presidents' Report, the EU is already working on them. The show must go on, either: why would you try to solve short-term problems at all, if you can also daydream about big steps in the future? However, the VVD is not waiting for French ideas about a euro area budget, a euro area government or a euro area parliament, and I would like to hear from the Minister exactly what he was talking about and not in his offer speech, because I am paraphrasing the Minister just making speed and jumping over the shadows is the question for us. Another quote appeals to me much more, that I read in NRC Handelsblad by Nicolas Véron of the think tank Bruegel of the week. He said: 'Deadly boring banking union is more important to the euro than new visions'. I very much agree with that. Now that I have come to Europe, I would also like to remind you that I still have outstanding questions from the AA on the Ecofin Council that we had to interrupt yesterday, on the bridge financing of the SRM, on the services market in Europe, another issue where the competitiveness of the Netherlands and the EU could use a strong boost, and on the flexibility in the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. I also asked whether it was true that proposals are being made to exclude the additional costs of receiving asylum seekers from the EMU balance. I am opposed to this kind of cost simply having to finance Member States from their existing budget. As far as flexibility in the Stability and Growth Pact is concerned, I honestly believe that it is a weakness to move forward in order to make that SGP more flexible, just after we have been focusing all our efforts since 2010 on making stricter agreements between Member States. If there is to be a long-term vision, isn't it much more the challenge to make the very complex structure with many exceptions and flexibility arrangements simpler, in order to achieve standards that everyone understands and are respected by everyone, such as a deficit of 3% and a public debt of 60%? That brings me gradually to the end of my speech. A major effort has been made in recent years to regain control of collective spending. At last, the high growth of real collective spending in health and social security has flattened and reached a stable level, while the real collective spending of public administration has been substantially cut back. That has been a great achievement. In this way, the efforts made in recent years have also been directed towards reducing public authorities. Liberals like to see that, because a smaller government leads to lower taxes, more freedom and the certainty that we can also pay our provisions in the long term. In view of the words spoken by the Minister himself, namely 'it is good but not good enough', I hope to find an ally in him against the initial tendency of the parties to spend more money, because that was a worrying trend in many counter-budgets. Money that the government does not need must return to the citizen in the form of lower taxes or to matters that only the government can do and that need strengthening, such as defence and security. The government is not the guardian of an obligationless basic income, of state banks or let alone of our happiness, to mention just a few left-fashioned themes that came along this summer, to throw hard-earned taxpayers' money over the block. The VVD wants room for people and businesses. Only that will help the Netherlands move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u100	In Mr Harbers' long speech, I have heard a lot of visitors, but security and justice seem to be missing, which surprises me. I thought the VVD was also in favour of investing more in that. Mr Harbers has seen that there are shortcomings in all links in the justice and criminal justice chain. Does he make any suggestions on this point himself? What does he think is the overall deficit and what are his proposals to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u101	I did not just mention the word security for nothing. My group chairman has said, on the motion tabled by the opposition on this point, that there is a question to the cabinet. We have said before that there are risks in the budget of Security and Justice and that it is not the best budget. At the same time, it must be clear where the deficits are and where they are, and then it must also be clear where that money can come from. In my view, the situation is still not such that there is a great deal of money in other budgets that can be taken out of it. So these are difficult choices, but I haven't seen a list to this day that shows exactly how much money is needed in the area of security and justice, because until now there are only assumptions that laws will not get through or that there will be deficits. If it is clear what the deficits are, there is always talk with the VVD about resolving those deficits in order to make the budget more robust, but it is primarily up to the cabinet to come up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u102	Of course, proposals have been made. Mr Harbers just mentioned the counter-budgets. We want to invest 340 million in security and justice. However, if the VVD extends things for itself, then we have a problem. This means that we can only move within the budget of Security and Justice. The question is how Mr Harbers is going to deal with the problems, because there is probably a need for money. Now I've made a proposal about the financial investigation. Mr Harbers' colleague, Mr Van Oosten, has asked questions about statements made by mayors and the Public Prosecutor's Office. They said there's gonna be money for financial investigations to raise more criminal money. Does Mr Harbers support me in this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u103	This issue also concerns the VVD Group. It is right that Mr Merkies has asked the Secretary of State and I am curious about his answer to this. The thought is very sympathetic: if you put money in something and there's more money coming out, then maybe you should be able to do it. The world is only full of such proposals. So it's gotta be around to figure it out. So, like Mr Merkies, I am very curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State, because my group shares the concerns about this. However, as far as the large whole of the budget for security and justice is concerned, I am from the school which believes that problems must be dealt with before we find a solution. I do not think that we should begin by noting that all kinds of legislative proposals are probably not going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr. Harbers puts his head in the sand. That surprises me, because Mr Harbers is talking about safety. Security is a top priority of the VVD. In fact, for five years there have been two VVD leaders at the Ministry of Security and Justice and it's just a mess. Two years ago, the financial administration was out of order, and now we see gaps in the budget everywhere. We're in the Knight's Room, the throne speech is pronounced, and then there's a report showing that it's a mess with the D.A.'s office. There are large deficits in the police, there are large deficits in legal aid and there are deficits in the rights of the Registry. The coalition has distributed some 750 million on topics that the VVD and the PvdA consider important. Despite all the fine words about safety, however, the VVD did not choose to tackle the problems. Then what are those beautiful words worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u105	The simple fact is that 400 million out of 700 million go to security, in this case with the Defense Department, where there are also major problems. These problems have already been demonstrated. There are more missions that need to be financed and we are lagging behind in terms of investment. I'm the last one to deny that there are problems with Security and Justice. We discussed this in detail in the General Reviews. However, we will have to get more insight into it, because it is all mixed up: things that are actually going to happen, things that may occur, things that may occur after 2016, and things that still have to happen, because the legislative proposals on which they are based have not yet been adopted or are perhaps being voted down. If there's any clarity about this, that's the time to act. If there are such problems there is always talk to the VVD about them. We have indicated this from the outset. I also note, however, that to date there is no amendment from any group to see where money is to go and where it is to go. Yes, the SP may have suggested that, but there were other less fun aspects to this counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u106	The old slogan of the VVD was: not moving forward, but moving forward. That slogan is buried, this is a clear example. We see all these problems coming, but the VVD is going to move them all through and put them on the board with others. There are problems with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, legal aid, registry rights and financial administration. The whole budget is a mess. The cabinet distributes money and apparently thinks: we'll see what happens here. Meanwhile, the police are stopping and there's a big problem at the D.A.'s office, but the VVD's just sticking its head in the sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u107	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u108	My question is: what is Mr Harbers going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u109	I'm just going to repeat my words, because the same question deserves the same answer. If these problems arise, we can talk immediately, but it is primarily a matter for the cabinet. It is also a matter for the cabinet to understand exactly where it does and does not pinch. It still depends on too many assumptions. That's not moving forward, because it's not gonna take years like this. I think we'll get more insight into it this autumn. Between the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews, that insight has not yet come to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u110	This is too bar! The government party VVD indicates that the budget is so unclear that it cannot see whether there is enough money available in the budget. Well, that disqualification is really huge! On one point, I would like to commend the rulers of justice. They have said that there is a deficit of 230 million for the police. They sent the Galan report on the mess at the State's Attorney's Office to the Chamber after some pressure. The VVD Group is in favour of Mr Slob's motion (34300, No. 22), it costs 50 million not to close those courts. There is not enough money for the NFI (Dutch Forensic Institute) so that the identification of the victims of the disaster with the MH17 must take place in Sarajevo. I can give you a whole list, but I don't get the time from the chairman, and rightly so. Mr Harbers knows the list: there must be at least 200 million to 300 million in the budget. This is traditionally the last moment when budgets are pushed between budgets. Does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats think it is justified to continue with the current budget and submit it to the House of Representatives, of which 76 will of course vote in favour, and to the First Chamber, which will really note that there is a huge gap between ambition and expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u111	That's a lot of questions. I note that the cabinet has presented this budget to the Chamber and has seen no reason to add additional money to it already. This is not a good thing, as we have already pointed out in the General Political Reviews, but it will first have to be clarified when which problems will arise and which problems can only be solved with money and which may be solved in a different way. At the moment, I do not have any ready-made amendments, even if only because it is still crunching with a lot more budgets. We will all have to talk about this: where can we get money off? If we debate this one more day, I am terrified that everyone is making other proposals and that there is no majority for any proposal. First of all, I'm looking at the cabinet. If problems arise, the cabinet must make sound proposals. I believe that we have also agreed to this in the General Political Reviews. The VVD Group has also found something about the opposition's motion and has also sent it as a signal to the cabinet. I am very curious to hear the government's reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u112	The VVD spokesperson is all about it now. The House will be asked to approve or reject the budget. Those are ambitions, with money added. With the police there is a long-term cut of 0.5 billion and next year there will be a deficit of 230 million. That's just an attachment to the Millions Note. A motion was adopted in the General Political Reviews stating that we are not closing the courts. We agree, but it costs 50 million. NLFI is also a problem. The D.A.'s a problem. Really every item on the budget! To cover this, for example, the vog becomes 25% more expensive. So anyone who has to work somewhere will have to pay €40 to get a vog. The administrative costs of fines are going to increase. I believe that we are the only country in the world to do so. What does the VVD think of this budget? Is it justified to continue with the current ambitions of the VVD with an ambition in terms of security to make the cuts in justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u113	We have already clearly indicated what the VVD thinks of this budget. The issue of V and J is not the best budget in years. To solve the problems in that, we're gonna have to go a little bit higher. Then it will probably also have to be made clear in the budget debate of V and J what exactly is and is not going to be the problem and at what point. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a situation here today where we are immediately preparing a bag of money. It may be necessary, but no one knows exactly how big it is. We also have to answer the question of where that money comes from. I suspect that I can still be likened to Mr Omtzigt when it comes to coverage, but that this will not be the case with many other parties. We must also include this issue. I have not seen a proposal from anyone, not from myself, but from others, until now. From this you can also deduce that it is still in the budget here and there to get all the money together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u114	I have another question about the level of income tax. The VVD had a flat fee in the election program in 2005. In 2013 the VVD indicated, the flat tax only an interesting idea to find. In 2014 it was indicated that the flat tax belongs in the wastebasket. How does the VVD look at the flat tax this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u115	First of all, the need for a flat tax is greatly reduced, because tariffs are no longer as excessive as they were in the last century. The top rate has dropped and is going down even further. The second and third disk are almost at the same percentage. In practice it is already starting to look like a flat tax. I would like to make two more comments. First of all, in recent years it has not been discussed in any way. We all know that if you want to introduce a flat tax in times of major austerity, you just won't make it. Then there are so many people going backwards that you can't compensate, that the purchasing power dramas are incalculable. Another argument is that in the Netherlands, sometimes I say: unfortunately, we have also built up a large payment system, because there is something crazy going on. If you've paid taxes in the Netherlands, you can't do two things anymore. Then you can't pay for your care anymore and then you can't pay for your living. We have to compensate for that with surcharges. That is why I am more in favour of an overall tax reduction, so that many more people can pay for it themselves. It is actually worth a lot more to me to look at how we can eliminate these increases in the next ten years. That probably presupposes a more sophisticated income tax. That flat tax just doesn't help. But it does help the Tax Administration greatly to simplify the business process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u116	82% of the VVD's supporters are in favour of a flat tax. The youth organisation of the VVD strongly supports it. In the past year, we have had it calculated that it is quite possible to introduce a flat tax of only 23% without affecting the budget. And, because Mr Harbers himself brought that up, the bottom is also being spared, because we are assuming an amount of €7,500 tax-free which amounts to €15,000. Furthermore, a general children's scheme and the rent allowance remain in place. So it is quite possible to introduce that flat tax without touching the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u117	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u118	Why does the VVD hold on to at least 36 to even 52% income tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u119	That's gonna be 34 to a maximum of 48%. We're gonna go down there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u120	That's still bizarrely high.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u121	I understand very well that someone who looks at it superficially says: a flat tax seems a good idea, very easy! But I also know other calculations. Mr Van Klaveren did not have that made by the CPB. That it's billing around in the budget, anyone can. But I also know the calculations of what that means for purchasing power. In purchasing power, large groups of people advance or decline 10 to 15%. I also note that this house may be affected by a 1% purchasing power difference. In that respect, therefore, it is not socially realistic to push through a flat tax so much rücksichtslos. You just don't have to do that. That's not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u122	It is not true what Mr Harbers says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u123	You tell me on your own term. Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u124	I would like to come back to the budget of justice, because I feel that there is room for the VVD. I'm trying to figure out where that room is. Mr Harbers indicated that he wanted an analysis of where the problems were. In the case of the Justice budget, this may become clear. I believe that we can still table amendments until the very last moment of vote. If that analysis is included in the budget of justice, is Mr Harbers prepared to see if there is any further need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u125	My group has also asked for this analysis. That's what the General Reviews were all about. Signals have been sent to the cabinet. We need to know what we are talking about, but I am not giving a blank cheque in terms of: we support every amendment. The coverage also matters. In this respect, the wishes vary greatly. We're lucky to have the whole fall to go. We can then see if we can agree in the Chamber. However, I would also prefer that all budgets should be sound and that no budget should contain any open questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u126	We are talking about the rule of law. We can have a lot of political discussions here about the role of the government, but it seems to me that we agree on one thing: we must guarantee the rule of law. That's at stake now. Isn't that supposed to hurt the VVD? So is the VVD prepared to instruct the cabinet to come forward with a proposal itself, perhaps only when we have the analysis? As far as I am concerned, this can be done at the very last minute before the vote. Is the VVD willing to commit to that rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u127	This is becoming a caricature. Of course, the rule of law is worth a lot to the VVD, just as defence is worth a lot to us, as many other things only the government can do are worth a lot to us. We must, however, first of all note that the rule of law has apparently been irreparably damaged. That's a bit of the caricature Mrs Schouten is making right now. That is not the case, at least not yet. For all these purposes, it pays to make the analysis very precise. It is true that this can still be done with the V and J budget, because the votes are far from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u128	My ears are clapping. First, the rule of law must be irreparably damaged before talking to the VVD about...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u129	That's a caricature of Mrs Schouten and not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u130	Those are the words of Mr Harbers. Mrs Schouten did not mention: irreparable damage. That was the VVD. Only then does the VVD want to talk about extra money. I would like to have the budget in order in advance. The VVD has just indicated that the budget is not in order, as Mr Harbers would have liked to see it better. That's just a nice way to say it. I mentioned the points: the police 230 million, the prosecutor's office and the report of the Galan Group with what is attached to it, the Council for the case law that needs 50 million because of the motion Slob, supported by the VVD and the NFI, which now wants to do the identification outside the Netherlands, in Sarajevo. Will the VVD Group with me tomorrow, who should have been there with Prinsjesdag, analyse the government of what it considers to be the gaps in the budget of V and J?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u131	Yes, I made a caricature of what Mrs Schouten said, but I did not say that the rule of law must first be irreparably damaged. That's bullshit. We have long asked for this analysis. Every fraction of this house has done so. I assume the cabinet is busy working on that by now. What Mr Omtzigt sums up is not a list that you can just add up. One may already be present at the moment, the other is far from happening. For some things, we also have more time. Fortunately, the Justice Council itself has already asked for more time to look at the courts. You can't just add it up. Nor can you table an amendment today for 100, 200 or 300 million if you do not know exactly where the money is needed and where it should go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u132	This is a little airboxing. I like a budget that says: these are the goals and we want to use the money for that. My question remains whether Mr Harbers would like to ask the cabinet with me to come forward tomorrow with an inventory of the bottlenecks and the amounts involved. If it is not there yet, it can only be done with the V and J budget, but then we have to find something within that budget. Where I sometimes see a small fold in other budgets, I think everyone here has the feeling that the budget of Security and Justice knows no areas of which you think: there is still room for manoeuvre. So he wants to ask now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u133	I think Mr Omtzig is going to ask for that in his term anyway. We have already asked for it in the General Political Reviews. I can assume that the cabinet is doing what it can, but I do not know whether the analysis will be here tomorrow, for the simple reason that some things have not even happened in practice. I have often indicated that the budget of V and J is not the most beautiful in history and that there are risks to it. I believe that we have already said to the House that the cabinet should consider this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u134	Now that Mr Harbers has come to the end of his speech, I have one more question. I heard Mr Harbers say in his speech half an hour ago that it is not going to be a progressive capital levy system. Now I've just taken up the Tax Plan, and then I see that the effective rate for people with low capital is 0.8%. For people with a slightly higher power, it's 1.1%. For people with high capital, the tax is 1.6% on capital. My question is: why, not progressive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u135	Because the rate is 30% everywhere. A progressive power load means that you load lower power and higher power for more than 30%. The rates mentioned by Mr Koolmees will apply as from 1 January 2017. After that it will fluctuate, fortunately, with the sentiment on the stock exchange and at the bank. It may even be the opposite, if interest on savings accounts goes up and things are getting worse on the stock exchange or in the real estate. So it's gonna fluctuate. So it's not a fixed progressive rate. There's one rate, 30%. The yields can fluctuate, thank God. Above all, I hope that in three years' time they will be exactly the same as the actual rate of return achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u136	It is now concrete that the VVD does agree with a progressive effective rate of capital in this Tax Plan and a little bit around it in the technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u137	No, we agree with one rate, namely 30% on all capital gains. Those capital yields are going to be more close to the real rate of return. In those three years we may even experience that it is less progressive in Mr Koolmees' reasoning. I hope not, by the way, because that would mean that things are going badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u138	I'm going to go into a section from the box 3 plan. The supposed return in box 3 in the complex asset mix is based on 4% return on government bonds. That's the average over the last 15 years. One of the windfalls, which is also pleasant in Minister Dijsselbloem's budget, is that he will pay only 0.8% or 1% next year. You say to these people: They only get 0.8% on the reasonably safe bonds of the Netherlands... they are safe, you don't shake a no on that, do you? Don't give me that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u139	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u140	You only get 0.8%, but we charge 4%, because this is closer to reality. The VVD can't really mean that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u141	If the interest rate on government bonds stays low for a long time, you will have to notice in the following years that the supposed return is going down. It'll be back in 15 years, but at some point you'll have to notice. That is precisely why I have already indicated that the new system will also be seen as unfair by many people, because it is in practice a flat-rate system for everyone. It is a little more refined and less unjust, but still unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u142	I do welcome the honesty, namely that the new system will be seen as unfair by many people. That does not seem to me to be an announcement of a good system. But there's just been a trick. In the savings accounts you had to start from the last five years to get a bit towards the 1.6%, which seemed a bit real. In the case of bonds, in order to obtain a high return for large investors, the average was 15 years. But you don't get the average of fifteen. If you buy a bond, you get the current interest rate right now. Why is it not based on current interest rates or an average over five years? That would be a much better approach to what you'd get.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u143	The question of whether this is a question of using tricks, Mr Omtzigt should fight with the Secretary of State in his own term. I think this in itself fits with the longer investment horizons that investors take. However, I would like to say once again that I am the first to admit that, as far as I am concerned, this is nothing more than a transitional situation that is going to take a few years. I've said that ten times this morning. Like the whole Chamber, I want to move as quickly as possible towards a situation in which the real return is taxed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u144	Before I give the floor to Mr Omtzitz, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u145	Mr. Chairman. The economy's getting better. After years of thunderstorm, rain and strong headwind, the sun has broken again. The CDA is happy with that. It is good that we do not just have to talk about cuts, the 3% standard and other nasty things that have been going on in recent years. But we live in the Netherlands. In our country, the weather can change very quickly. The big question is whether you see thunderstorm and rainstorm coming into the budget and whether you are prepared for that. The great example of such a situation was, of course, in 2008. A great budget was presented that year, but when Lehman collapsed, we went to a contraction of up to 5%. The first point the CDA wants to raise is the number of refugees entering the Netherlands. At another time, we are talking about how we deal with refugees. But I would also like to mention the number of refugees in relation to the budget. This is based on 40,000 asylum seekers this year and 22,500 next year. That seems to us to be a great understatement of reality. The figures are no longer published daily, but we would like to know how many asylum seekers arrived until yesterday, which is a real expectation for 2015 and 2016, and what that means. If it is necessary to send a letter of amendment for the purchase of two paintings, no even for the purchase of one painting, it may also be necessary to do so for tens of thousands of asylum seekers. A budget is a best estimate of next year's costs. Let me add that this also affects security and justice. A second thunder cloud is from Frankfurt. The ECB's policy is a direct threat to savers and pensioners. The policy leads to extremely low interest rates, but may lead to strong inflation in the long term. As far as this government is concerned, how long can the ECB buy up everything that is loose and stuck in Europe? We're a little done watching and not changing anything. There's a new bubble coming up and then the ordinary savers and pensioners pay the price. Why has our government been ignorant of this for so long? When are we going back to normal? Or does the government want to allow a huge house price bubble and indirect expropriation, due to strong inflation, of savings and pension money? There will be another thunder cloud, in a country where the sun is normally shining, namely Greece. Of course, this country has been helped by the third emergency package, but Greece is keeping to its commitments this time? Or is it just waiting until it doesn't stick to that? Is the government prepared to inform us every two months next year how the package countries comply with the conditions? Did we learn that way from Greece? Speaking of guarantees. The Netherlands still guarantees a sloppy 500 billion for all kinds of things. The risks are better identified and controlled, according to the General Court. But the CDA is not satisfied with that. The guarantees are increasing by 3 billion. We'd rather see a cut-off. With real setbacks, these thunderstorms, such as a new European recession and an increasing deficit, the guarantees will lead to payouts and the Netherlands could end up in a very nasty negative spiral, with the question of whether the State can pay out the guarantees at all. Because in that scenario, interest is rising, with which the borrowing costs and the deficit are also rising, and you have to pay out guarantees on houses, on other countries and on all kinds of other things. The Dutch State is not stress-resistant. Does the Minister share these concerns and is he prepared to take steps in 2016 to reduce the guarantees, of course not by converting them into payments? A new guarantee, which will increase annually, is the loans in the new loan system. The CDA warned earlier about the perverse incentive that makes students challenged to borrow as much as possible and where the chances are very high that they will never have to repay their loan again because of the flexible repayment conditions. Is the Minister aware of this risk and is he prepared to make this implied guarantee clear to the Chamber? The Court pointed out to the Court another worrying fact: the loans granted through the European emergency funds are hardly democratically controlled and accounted for. An independent monitoring mechanism is lacking, and the evaluation of closed support programmes, which the Minister in Europe is going to call for attention to, should be more independent. We do not want to be a banker who evaluates and controls his own loan expenditure. Does the Minister now agree with us and is he prepared to follow up on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors? We are still waiting for an opinion on our motion on foreign affairs. Apart from all the developments and dangers that lie ahead, there is also simply a budget ahead. We're being asked to be judged. I'll start with the revenue side, in particular the changes to box 3. My group chairman mentioned to the APB that the CDA had reservations about the complex proposal which, according to the VVD, was a transitional proposal for the capital efficiency levy. In the Netherlands we know the starting point that the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest loads. The CDA has no objections to that principle. Only with the current proposal, for example, will it be possible in the future for failing stock exchanges and rising interest rates on savings accounts to pay a lower tax rate than small savers. That's a bit harsh. This does not solve the problem that the supposed return can still be far from the real rate of return, as Mr Harbers admitted here. And that 4% on bonds, of course, does not attract anyone who buys a Dutch state bond from the Minister of Finance. For the millionaires, all escape routes, except for the Belgium route that is being closed, will continue to exist, let's be honest. Put the money in box 2, you just pay 1% tax and not 1.6% or 1.8%. That's the trick the PvdA agreed to. Then I don't even mention the more complex escape options, because that just takes me too much time. The CDA calls for a more detailed study of the possibilities for taxing real returns. Since last week we have the CPB on our side on that point. I have to say, that's nice sometimes. The Council of State is very tough. It states that no justification is given for the decisive arguments for including the high returns associated with additional risks in a levy. The Council also states that the proposal is to the detriment of the prudent investor. Furthermore, there is no explanation of the alternatives within the existing system. Finally, the Council of State states that the proposal does not contribute to reducing complexity. Moreover, the board considers that this proposal does not belong in the 2016 Tax Plan. It is about 2017, there is no intended budgetary return and there is no consistency with the other plans. What does the Cabinet do? It does not even respond to this comment from the Council of State. We're left with our case, I'd say. I repeat, come up with a better plan or at least separate it from the rest of the Tax Plan. Can I ask the government to reply to the question of the Council of State on this particular point why it should necessarily be in the Tax Plan? If not, I'm just assuming that the government actually agrees with us that it doesn't belong in the Tax Plan. As is well known, the CDA strongly supports the reduction of charges for 2016. Charge lighting is what the Netherlands needs, as we have been advocating for years. The impact on the structural deficit is under review and the budget deficit is still falling significantly compared to 2015. However, we ask the Minister to continue this trend of lower deficits in 2017, preferably with steps of half a percent and, indeed, with expenditure restrictions. Does the Minister agree with us and can he undertake to do so? There will not be room on the budget for reducing the burden every year. The economic outlook for the future of the budget remains very important. We must act wisely, and we are also thinking of increasingly tighter deficit standards for local authorities. They can get in the way of necessary investments. Money stays on the shelf. Has the Minister also taken this issue into account in his agreements with local authorities? During the General Political Reviews, the CDA submitted the Van der Staaij motion on the position of sole earners. The Nibud already stated that a single earner with children and a modal income simply can't make ends meet. The CDA finds that very undesirable. Of course, the tax system must have incentives to stimulate work. But it shouldn't be overly steering and unnecessarily complicated. Moreover, it is not always the unwillingness to work that makes someone more self-deserving. Unemployment, sickness, family care or special care for children can all be reasons why only one person works in families for a certain period of time. You shouldn't severely punish that as a government, we don't stand for that. The CDA has therefore always advocated a simple system with simple tariffs: the social flat tax. But we also see that you do not introduce it in a single year, especially after a cabinet that has encrypted all the tax rebates so that an opaque system of tariffs has gradually emerged. At our request, the CPB has calculated what complex incentives do. Let me give you the example that was in the draftsman's name. A single parent with a minimum wage of €19,000 and one child has just as much net left as a single earner with a modal wage of €36,000 that is €17,000 more, but that amount is taxed away for euros and two children. So this person earns almost twice as much, has to feed twice as many mouths, namely those of his wife and those of his two children, and has to do it after supplements and taxes with exactly the same net income. This is really no longer taxing according to carrying capacity. Is the government prepared to ask the CPB to carry out an assessment of the principle of load capital in the tax system and explicitly include the sole earner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u146	Good thing Mr Omtzigt is asking for more information. At the end of the day, of course, it is about whether something is going to change. Plans and investigations are beautiful, but ultimately it's about the act. Is Mr Omtzigt prepared to support plans to reduce the gap between the earners and others?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u147	The CDA is certainly prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u148	A short reaction, that's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u149	I think it's elegant to just say thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u150	This is probably due to the IACK, should Mr Dijkgraaf ask. You could also introduce them for a earner, because in a family care situation or involuntary unemployment you do need them. We also saw excessive tax incentives in hybrid cars. With the CDA, the government has come to the conclusion that these billions of devouring carousel had to come to an end. But why don't we just take a firm step in 2016? We will come up with plans to correct this. Then we can reduce the excise duty a bit. The Court found that the tax expenditure is not yet effective. In fact, many measures are not evaluated at all for effectiveness. Let me give you two examples: the coal tax and the subsidy on biomass. Have these measures ever been evaluated for their effectiveness? If not, is the Minister prepared to do so? It is very important that steering measures, tax or subsidies, be examined once in a while for their existence. We filed a motion today on diesel cars. For this, billions of subsidies have been paid, which may not have contributed at all to environmental clean-up, precisely because they have been cheated. When is the Dutch government going to intervene in the automotive industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u151	I heard Mr Omtzigt ask questions about the effectiveness of, among other things, coal taxes. He seems to doubt that himself, otherwise he wouldn't ask. I'm glad. Was it not Mr Buma, CDA group chairman, who, during the General Political Reviews, said quite clearly that he does not agree with tax plans if, for example, a coal tax is introduced, because it leads to lower employment? We can't put the latter one-on-one at all, but he had already drawn that conclusion. Is there a difference between Mr Omtzigt's position and his group chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u152	It is interesting that Mrs Schouten wants to have the internal discussion of the CDA. We believe that any tax subsidy should be considered to what extent it is effective. The same applies to subsidies which we believe should be maintained. We are never blind to a tax subsidy. Let me give an example of the coal tax. The Council of State asks us whether it is effective and asks us to read its opinion on the increased efficiency which shuts down coal power stations. That advice was given to Secretary of State Mansveld. My question to the cabinet is whether it would like to send this opinion to the Chamber immediately, so that we know if those coal plants will close on 1 January 2016. Indeed, in the energy agreement, the abolition of the coal tax is linked to the closure of three coal plants on 1 January 2016 and two on 1 July 2017. It has to be done. That is why we want to receive the opinion for the second period of this debate, so that we know whether the whole constellation will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u153	I am pleased to note that the CDA therefore has room to maintain the coal tax if it appears that the coal plants will not close by 1 January 2016. That seems to me to be a very good position. We already had that position, but I am very glad that the CDA has also come this way. Maybe we can do business on this point when dealing with the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u154	When we ask for evaluations, we are open to reading what is in those evaluations and the resulting opinions. I'm not putting it aside. I'm waiting for the things Mrs Schouten is asking for. I do so on all matters relating to taxation, including those which I think are useful. I think this is interesting in itself, because in this Chamber everyone is always engaged in the tasting of things from the other side that one does not like, without considering whether they might be useful. I come to the expenditure side of the budget. The CDA has made clear in the General Political Reviews that two things really have to be different: the budget of Security and Justice and the expenditure on Defence. The gaps in the budget for Security and Justice really need to be closed faster than the government has in mind, in accordance with our input in the form of a motion on Security and Justice and an amendment on Defence. Just seriously, does the government consider the budget of security and justice adequate at the moment? I have just mentioned the whole list when Mr Harbers spoke. How many gaps are there in that budget that the cabinet already knows exist? Financing justice expenses with the settlement with SBM is very tricky. Is that deal worth hundreds of millions insightful and public? Are drivers who have received a mega fine for massive bribery around the world persecuted or not in the Netherlands by the Public Prosecutor's Office? Or do we only pursue the small fish that try to work from the UWV? They are being prosecuted. That's the cover in the Millions Note. The government assumes that the First Chamber will adopt the justice budget. It is assumed that the First Chamber will adopt legislative proposals which it has blocked so far. That's kind of risky, I think. Surely the government cannot seriously believe that the budget of security and justice is adequate in this way? I'd like a response. In fact, closing the gaps in the budget will do the job for the government. Aiders in health care and social security are used to cover deficits in ministries. Why is this chosen? Surely it cannot be that we will ultimately have some control over the costs of care, and then give the advantage for the weakened budget discipline in ministries? Is that going to be the Dijsselbloem norm? If we really want to take the spending frameworks seriously, this has to be different. Why else do we have three spending frameworks? Then merge them into one framework. I'm asking the same question about the care allowance as the SP. The PvdA member, Mr Dijsselbloem, pointed out that the cost of care would be reduced if the PvdA group were involved. Is that right? If he agrees, why does the fine remain in the law? Why isn't it just being taken out of the law? Finally, three separate points. First of all, a comment on the auntagath loan, the tax-friendly granting of foreign capital to friends or family. We have been advocating this for years. VNO-NCW is turning this scheme into the boyfriend scheme. It seems to be coming from it, but we could not find anything about it in the EZ budget. Is this arrangement gonna happen or isn't it gonna happen? Next, a comment on the Tax Administration. Has the IRS been subpoenaed and, if so, how much cost has been incurred for that? We would like to hear the answer to this specific question. In what cases did the Tax Administration incur costs for that? We requested the Simmons & Simmons report, but we didn't get it. On the basis of the Public Administration Act, researchers from the University of Amsterdam have received that report. Does the Secretary of State wish to send that report and the 2009 report to the Chamber as soon as possible, including the annexes concerning the specific countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u155	Last year we had the debate with the CDA more often. There were always a few subjects that the CDA was fatally opposed to. I refer to the loan system, the excise duty rate, about every debate with the Secretary of State on excise duties and the landlord's levy. I note that these issues do not come back in Mr Omtzig's speech. Did Mr Omtzigt or the CDA agree to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u156	I have just said that we will come to the tax plan with the proposal to increase the tax on hybrid cars quickly, not in 2017 but in 2016, and thus reduce excise duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u157	This will be the specific adjustment of the excise duty component. So Mr Omtzigt continues to oppose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u158	At that point, yes. I couldn't help myself. Even if I were ordered not to, I would tend to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr. Chairman. Sobriety, an eye for the risks in the world and for a sound budget; that tone has rightly been used by the cabinet. The Labour Party is right to do so, but at the same time we see that after years of tough, difficult and sometimes painful measures, a good basis for economic recovery has been laid. After three years of Rutte/Asscher cabinet, the Netherlands is much better. The economy is improving, employment is improving and purchasing power is improving. On behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to highlight these General Financial Reviews of work and sustainable economic growth, this year, next year and in the future. I deal with three topics. Of course, the next year's budget, European and Economic Monetary Union and as always the financial sector, because it is important to get and keep it healthy in order to keep our country's economy healthy and grow in the future. I shall begin with the budget, which is entirely about employment. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has also called for this in the past. Unemployment has been too high in recent years and it is still too high. Unemployment must be combated and employment created. 5 billion has been made available for this purpose. This money is meant for the people who get the hardest job. Employers receive a fee of €2,000 if they employ someone with an income around the minimum wage. It is also intended for those who earn between €20,000 and €40,000 and who have not had an easy time. They are supported in the search for a job; jobs are created for them. The Labour Party strongly supports this. A second main theme in work is modern life, i.e. the ability to combine work and ordinary life. For this the Labour Party has also made itself strong. That is why 290 million extra is allocated to childcare. This creates affordable childcare and allows people to combine a job with a home situation with children. Hence the investment in toddlers. Not every toddler can go to toddler care now. The Labour Party considers it important that all toddlers in the Netherlands should be able to go to toddler care, including those whose parents are not working or who are lagging behind. That is why money has been allocated to extending leave arrangements so that fathers and sometimes mothers, sometimes there are two fathers or two mothers who can stay with the children for a week instead of two days. This is a first step to make modern life possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u160	Mr Nijboer spoke optimistically about a Millions Note on employment. I believe I've read another Millions note. I read a Millions note in which rock and bone is complained, because unemployment is not falling fast enough. No measures are announced for this purpose. The Millions note gives us figures showing that the fall in unemployment next year is even lower than this year. It is now 0.5% and next year's forecast is 0.2%. The Millions note announces that structural unemployment will not fall, but will rise and continue to rise. Where does Mr Nijboer get his optimism from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u161	Unemployment is still too high. Mr Grashoff is right to say that the cabinet also points out this. For this reason, a huge amount of EUR 5 billion has also been set aside to create jobs, to combine work and care and to enable employers to employ people. The latter cannot be introduced as of 1 January 2016, because it also needs to be completed in practice, but now it will be introduced as of 1 January 2017, so as soon as possible. Mr Klaver has always argued in favour of supporting employers to keep and hire people. That is why 100,000 jobs will be created next year. Some of them are filled out by people who are unemployed, partly by people who are still at home. Unemployment is falling, but still too little. For that reason, the cabinet is putting everything on top of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr Nijboer has really had another Millions note in front of him. I read in that million-dollar note that it creates 35,000 jobs. That crazy amount of 5 billion will create 35,000 jobs. This is structural and therefore relates to the period between five and ten years after now. In this way, therefore, it takes decades for us to reduce unemployment a little to a normal level. Does Mr Nijboer not agree with me that this cabinet has completely failed in tackling the unemployment problem and is not taking effective action to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u163	No, I disagree. We have had a financial crisis that has had a huge impact. This has been the case throughout Europe. In the Netherlands, unemployment is far too high, but in most other countries of Europe, Germany is doing well, but I am thinking now of Spain and France, where unemployment is still much higher than in the Netherlands. Then, as a government, you have to pursue a responsible fiscal policy and do as much as possible to help people get a job. In the past year, almost 100,000 jobs have been created. The CPB also provides for this for the coming year. Of course, unemployment does not fall with one-on-one, because there are also students who accept a job. There are also people sitting at home who think: we have a chance, I get a job. So unemployment does not end one-on-one, but falls next year and there will be 100,000 jobs. That's quite an achievement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u164	I don't say it often, but GroenLinks is right. I have tabled a counter-budget because, in my opinion, the cabinet is not doing enough to reduce unemployment or to reduce unemployment. promoting job growth. It's not about 5 billion, by the way. I hear the amount of 5 billion here all the time, but it's 4.3 billion. 700 million goes to fees. There's only 4.3 billion going to relief. This does not help to combat unemployment because the tax reductions are being reduced, in particular the general tax reduction. This means that the marginal tax burden increases, and that doesn't encourage someone who works four days to go to work for five days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u165	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u166	My question is, through you to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA, the following. He's just saying that the cabinet is putting "everything" in place to promote employment. I mean, that's demonstrably not true, right? The CPB also says that this is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u167	I agree with Mr Van Vliet immediately: the CPB says that you will get even more jobs if you reduce benefits, for example, or if you remove a lot of money from the elderly, as Mr Koolmees does, and give it to workers. You'll get more jobs, but that's a choice we don't think is fair. Taking money from the elderly and beneficiaries, cutting benefit recipients by 10% or 20% or lowering the minimum wage, which also does great in the models: that's a choice the PvdA doesn't make. You'll get jobs, but you'll also get very bad American situations. However, 100,000 jobs will be created. Indeed, Mr Van Vliet is right about the technical point: it is not 5 billion, but a little less. The childcare allowance is indeed covered by the expenditure. However, that is what the PvdA stands for and it also helps with employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u168	Finally, Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u169	What does Mr Nijboer think of the reduction in the tax rebate? After all, you know that this is not favourable to the marginal tax burden and that it does not stimulate people to work or work more, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u170	The tax system has chosen to meet the lower incomes and middle incomes, which have been most under pressure in the crisis, and to make the most of getting a job. That is a choice that the PvdA Group fully supports. This is indeed co-financed by the reduction of the tax rebate at the top, because people who already make a lot of money usually keep working. This is also apparent from the CPB's credit transfer. However, I do not think that is the most important guiding aspect. The main guiding aspect is that people with MBO education and graduate students who do not come to work can now get a job. That is what it is aimed at, and I fully support that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr Nijboer is getting a little close and is therefore going to beat around him a little bit and blame others. That's been happening a lot lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u172	A good point of content!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u173	However, tackling unemployment is the theme for the Labour Party. That is a wonderful point and a great social challenge. Last year there were plans for those 100,000 jobs. Mr Van Vliet was right to say that these are 35,000 jobs. However, we can do much more, for example by greening. Mr Grashoff was just talking about that. We have 1.5 billion in our proposal for this. It creates new jobs, because you can use that amount to reduce the burden on labour, but it also offers benefits for the decentralised tax area. Why does Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party, who talks about employment and jobs, not support these proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u174	It's even stronger. We have, with the VVD, by the way, with a lot of Haags steggel, put forward a proposal for a very broad tax reform, which could have included all this and which I would have liked to have worked on with Mr Koolmees. We wanted to talk about that first, but then it had to go to the Chamber in public first. That is what Mr Pechtold wanted. Then it was discussed in public in the Chamber. We had a first cup of coffee on it. The second cup of coffee had not yet been poured or D66 ran away with the ambitions in hand. Nothing has been achieved in practice, and now Mr Koolmees blames me for not being ambitious enough. I was happy to, but D66 really ran away from the meeting. I regret that, because otherwise we could have done even more greening than we have realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u175	This trick has been used more frequently by Mr Nijboer in recent months. That is not true, but apart from that, I shall give a concrete example, namely the motion on greening which was put to the vote two weeks ago (34300, No. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The motion proposed a greening of the tax system of 1 billion to create more jobs. The Christian Union, GroenLinks and D66, 17 seats across the street, voted in favour. The Labour Party voted against this. If we put this motion back to the vote tomorrow, will the Labour Party vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u176	I am in favour of further greening of the tax system. This has always been clear. At the same time, if we had submitted the tax system as PvdA and VVD, we would not have had a majority in the First Chamber, this would have been the deal and this would have become the present system. There are good points, including a fair capital tax on employment and on lower incomes and middle incomes. I am happy to extend this further, but there must be a majority in favour of it. We would have liked to talk about that, before that we sat together, but soon D66 had left. I regret that, because otherwise we could have realized more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u177	I really like how Mr Nijboer can say so many untruths in such a short time. There's a majority for greening, though. However, benefits are reduced one step each year for a long period of time. The 5 billion package increases inequality. Mr Nijboer knows this as well as I do. Mr Nijboer shakes his head, but this is addressed on page 15 of the Macro Economic Exploration. I thought it was serious that Mr Samsom didn't know that either. Mr Nijboer, who has been able to see this in the General Reviews, will now again shake no, but it is clear that inequality will be increased by the 5 billion package. Surely Mr Nijboer can't deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u178	I can hardly imagine that my group chairman was not familiar with a purchasing power table. Actually, I can't reach that. If Mr Merkies says so, it may be so. He's talking about inequality. I do not really like this purchasing power picture steering, because you can always get something out of it, but the answers of the cabinet show that the ginico-efficient, on which Mr Merkies' group chairman questioned my group chairman, becomes fairer and more equal with all the cabinet measures taken together. That comes out, and that supports the PvdA Group. This is partly due to the fact that these measures are aimed at the low or middle-income workers. The package is aimed at them. You can see that in all the pictures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u179	That's why I immediately added the page. Mr Nijboer apparently did not read page 15 of the Macro Economic Exploration either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u180	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u181	Let me take absolute numbers. We have also received answers to the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u182	Not too long, Mr. Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u183	We have to get them involved. I'm just getting started. It's very simple. Poor and rich are simply divided into four groups. Next year, "poor," the lowest income, will receive €370. The high incomes, so more than 500% of the statutory minimum wage.................................................................................................................................................................... €2.130 versus €370: does Mr Nijboer call that equal and just?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u184	That's the well-known money and percentage debate. People at the bottom get the most percentage. It's less in pennies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u185	That's not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u186	That is what Mr Merkies is calling for. But I am so glad that we have not followed that approach in recent years, in the time of crisis. For people who made €100,000 and lost 3%, this amounted to €3,000 per year. It would be a good thing if we had said that the beneficiaries would only lose €1,500 a year and that we would be okay with that, because they were less backward in pennies. We have not chosen this approach for nothing and we have not chosen it in recent years. Mr Merkies also knows that it is not a fair comparison. That's why I'm glad the SP line hasn't been followed. The purchasing power figures show that the workers with lower and middle incomes are making the most progress. Just admit it. Praise us for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u187	I commend Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u188	You should always be careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u189	Now the weather's not right. Mr Nijboer stands up for the low middle incomes. He says we should invest in the combination of work and care. But what about the one-earner? Let me give you an example of a family in which the man is disabled and the woman is working full-time. She's making €40,000. There is a tax difference of €8,000 with two earners both earning €20,000. That woman with the handicapped man has $700 less to spend a month. That is also a situation that Mr Nijboer would like to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u190	The tax proposals are particularly beneficial to those with a middle income, including those with a single income. Mr Dijkgraaf has been asking for a long time and a long time, and there he is consistently paying attention to the concept of household income; there is a great deal of difference between whether you earn €40,000 or €50,000 in two or alone. There is also a different approach to this, namely the importance of emancipation, of financial independence, of being independent of your partner, of all participating in society. This approach is also important to the PvdA Group. That is why we attach such importance, unlike the SGP, to childcare, for example, which is affordable for everyone. There is another social approach; that is a difference between our parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u191	The difference is indeed that Mr Nijboer is still in the old-fashioned emancipation policy of the 1960s and that we have accepted that women and men make their own choices, including in the labour market. We also want to facilitate these choices freely. Mr Nijboer completely ignores this example. Let him go into that concrete example of a woman working full-time, whose husband is disabled at home; there is no free choice but €8,000 difference. I understand that Mr Nijboer wants a difference from his philosophy, but hasn't that difference got out of hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u192	I understand Mr Dijkgraaf's point, but you have to choose which system you take. Either you do it based on households, or you do it based on individuals. That is an essential choice and I understand from the SGP that it is in favour of an approach at household level. Let me give you another example: a dentist with someone who does secretarial work two days a week; that means that you have to tax those two days a week very high, because you all have the same rate and you add that up. I don't think that's fair. Why should the person who works two days a week and thus makes a useful social contribution pay much more than anyone else, who is the main provider? This is always a problem with the tax system when it comes to household income. That is why we have the household approach to the surcharges and other concepts so that you take into account the capacity of households. In the tax system, we have chosen an individual approach, which the PvdA Group supports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u193	I should like to return to the small debate with Mr Merkies, and I have to say that he is doing his homework better. I quote from p. 15 of Macro Economic Recognition: "Finally, the package leads to a slight increase in income inequality: the gini coefficient increases by 0.3%." This is a quote; it's just in it. I would also like to ask Mr Nijboer: does he agree with me that if you look at the 10% highest and 10% lowest incomes, another comparison that has been going on for years, that difference is increasing in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u194	With regard to the package, with regard to all measures, the gini coefficient decreases. You make it a big point, but I really don't send the gini coefficient every year. I look at what happens in households. Looking at the tax package, all benefits, indexes, surcharges and own risks, we are moving forward compared to the gini coefficient in the Netherlands; it becomes fairer. As far as the tax package is concerned, there is a very small marginal deviation in relation to the 5 billion, because it focuses on employment. If you look at the effects of the purchasing power package of nearly 1 billion for the elderly and benefit recipients, it is the other way around. We have opted for employment, and I think that is a perfectly right choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u195	If you chose employment now, a number of things, such as the extension and the tariff reduction of the third disc, would not be included in the package at all. Surely you agree with me that it is a totally ineffective measure? Returning to the facts, it is clear that what is happening here leads to an increase in income disparities. This certainly applies to what this cabinet chooses to increase the difference between benefits and wages. This principle alone increases income disparities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u196	No, in total, the income differences are not increased but reduced, which is also reflected in the documents you have received. The gini coefficient over the various years is a measure of nothing, but well, you want to debate it, so that is what the final picture is. This increase in the third disc is precisely linked to what Mr Van Vliet has just said, namely the reduction of the tax rebate he is so opposed to. This also has to do with simplification. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the investment choices made by the cabinet. For example, international security has been chosen, something that the PvdA also has a warm heart and which is also important at this time. Care has also been chosen. The situation in nursing homes was not good enough. The PvdA is pleased that extra money is being allocated to it. The PvdA would also like to call for a further investment agenda for the Dutch economy, because in the future we all need to talk about sustainable growth. It is interesting and good that there is always a lot of attention here for redistribution, but we also need to look at what we make our money from, at which parts of our economy people can get a good job again in the future and at how we maintain and increase employment. For this reason, the PvdA Group would be in favour of setting up a study group on sustainable growth in addition to the Budget Space Study Group, which has just been set up. What investments are still needed? What changes are still required from the economy? We cannot continue with today's fossil society, so how do we deal with sustainable society? How do we deal with the risks of the financial sector and the long-term balance sheets in the Dutch economy? What is the answer to these questions? This study group can also make practical proposals. The reviews in these areas were very helpful in times of crisis, but there was another task, namely to cut 20% on each department. I would appreciate a new handy document addressing a number of questions. How do we make our money? How do we focus our education? What investments are needed? How do we make our money in the future? How do we make sure there are jobs? Such a handy report for the coming period would be very welcome and is also necessary and useful for the Dutch economy. I call upon the Cabinet to do so. My question is whether the Minister will agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u197	I see Mr Grashoff standing at the interrupting microphone, but I suggest that Mr Nijboer continue with his speech. I am giving Mr Grashoff the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u198	Fine, but then it becomes a little mustard after the meal, because I want to focus on the aspect of greening and sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u199	I'm gonna be on another block. I can imagine that Mr Grashoff would like to respond now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u200	I don't understand. We know very well with each other what is needed in terms of greening and sustainability. By making money available for investment, we can create jobs, much more and much faster than the cabinet does. What, however, is Mr Nijboer proposing? Let's set up a study group for it. Does Mr Nijboer not agree with me that it is high time to take up this greening right now? We simply need to discuss and agree on a few practical proposals together, now and later in the debate on the Tax Plan and the budgets, so that we move forward rather than setting up study groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u201	Last week, my colleague, Mr Vos, also pointed out in the debate that renewable energy targets must be met and that additional measures are needed to achieve them. These measures also map out the government. The PvdA Group is in favour of achieving the sustainable goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u202	One of these measures is the coal tax. This is a very effective means that also brings in money that you can invest again immediately. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that we simply need to introduce this coal tax as soon as possible instead of postponing it further, and that we should immediately reroute the proceeds as an investment for greening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u203	The coal tax is one of the options for greening, but you have to see what you're pulling out of the structure. The energy agreement is included. As part of this, parties such as industry have committed to contribute to climate improvement. They're gonna do that, and it's been agreed on. If you take that structure down completely, then I think you are unwise, but what Mr Grashoff is proposing is not indisputable for the PvdA Group. The sustainable goals are at the forefront of our efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u204	Mr Nijboer spoke about working towards sustainable growth. I am very much in favour of that. My question to Mr Nijboer is: what does the report of such a study group add to publications such as the WRR report Towards a learning economy and the letter on working for growth last year? What would the other accent be? What should we learn from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u205	I really liked the WRR report. Education and the sustainable economy are considered important, but the practical feasibility of the proposals can still be strengthened. It would be a good idea to set up a working group such as the Budget Space Study Group, Mr Koolmees, which may be even better than I am, which is always very clear. The review reports are very clear and contain very practical, good proposals for the Dutch economy. Politics can then choose what it wants to do. This element could have been a little stronger in the WRR report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u206	I just want to make it concrete. So it is not a broader vision, but concrete measures and concrete amounts for investment. These include innovation, education, science and so on. I am very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u207	I thank Mr Koolmees for his support. I come to three points in the budget. There has already been extensive discussion on the budget for security and justice. I ask the cabinet whether it can achieve the ambitions set out in the budget. I'm referring to the ambitions for the D.A., the police and the courts. My party has co-signed a motion by the Christian Union on the courts; that motion has been adopted. Justice must remain close. People don't have to I don't know how far they have to travel to get their rights. I would like the clear commitment that these ambitions will be realised and that this is possible with this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u208	That is a clear question, but it can be partly answered with information from the budgetary documents. The Justice Council says it costs 52 million if the housing plan does not go ahead. That may be a little too high an estimate, but it does cost money; let us just be honest about it. Same goes for the police. Perhaps Mr Nijboer has read the Galan report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u209	No, I didn't read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u210	Then I'll give it to him for the second term. It really gives a staggering picture of the state's attorney's office and the reorganisation there. Perhaps Mr Nijboer has read the annex to the Millions note on the police. There's an immediate deficit of 230 million. That money is needed. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that this should be covered in the General Financial Reviews, or does he want to cover it within the Justice budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u211	The cabinet agrees with us what it wants to achieve with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts, the police and, of course, care and other matters. The cabinet says we can do this for that money. That's what I'm assuming. There are indeed concerns to be mentioned. Mr Omtzigt just mentioned a number of them. We also discussed this in the General Reviews. I am now asking the Minister of Finance whether he is going to make it through this budget, or whether the ambitions will be nibbled. The PvdA is not in favour of less ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u212	Fine, then we'll hear the answer to that. However, I still have a question about a specific ambition. The PvdA was a co-author of the Slob/Samsom motion. I'm guessing it'll cost less than 52 million, but it'll cost money if we really don't let the court's undressing go on. Is the PvdA Group prepared to ensure that this postponement is postponed and that the seven courts remain fully open, or was it only for the stage to allow the trial to last two months longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u213	Of course, the latter is not the case. Those courts should just stay open. Mr Omtzigt himself says: if they see that, then there is an immediate claim. That's often the case. The Council will come up with other proposals. That is what is in the motion and it must be done. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, the proposal cannot be that the courts close. As far as the cuts related to them are concerned, I believe that the first sum of several million will be entered for 2018. I'd like to ask the Minister that for ease of reference. So it must not be laid down in concrete for next year's budget. Those court plans were also over a longer period of time. I'm here to talk about asylum. That has rightly been given a great deal of attention. The same question actually applies here. We're seeing the flow of refugees increasing. That also has a huge impact in the communities where they end up. Those people sometimes need education, they always need security, they need care and they need care. Some people are traumatized and deserve good care, like every human being in the world. Is there a sufficient budget for this and is it arranged for everyone to receive the care, care and education he or she deserves and needs and is worthy of dignity? On my third point, my final point on the budget itself, I refer to the analysis of the Council of State. The Council of State says that there are a lot of risks at the European Central Bank and the Netherlands Bank on the balance sheet and that the Chamber could get a little more insight into them. The question is simple: is the Minister prepared to give that? A very good annex has appeared on all kinds of risks. That's what the Chamber has asked for a few times. That's just a good thing. The PvdA Group would appreciate it if we also got that information on the balance sheet of DNB and the ECB. I will now take a piece of paper, because I would like to move on to another subject. This is about economic and monetary union and the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u214	Before you continue, Mr Merkies would like to ask another question. A very short question, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u215	It can be short in itself. I have another question about Security and Justice, but Mr Nijboer suddenly moved on to another subject very quickly. There is indeed a Slob/Samsom motion and the closure of the courts has now been postponed. Mr Nijboer must agree with me that there must be money. Or does he say it has to be taken from somewhere else? On all aspects of Security and Justice you will see deficits or booked items that relate to money that we do not get, such as for registry rights. I mentioned them during my input. Does Mr Nijboer think that it should be picked up somewhere else within V and J, or should there be money at Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u216	I appeal to the Cabinet on the promises it makes. Together with the Christian Union, we have expressed one wish, which will not cost money directly next year and which will not cost money the following year. That is about keeping the courts open. There is a long-term budget in the books for this. I'll ask the cabinet if that's possible. That seems to me to be the task of the Chamber. If the cabinet sends a budget, then I am not going to say directly: what does it matter whether it can be realized or not, you are already getting money. I'll ask the cabinet. That's a serious question. This also concerns the budget for security and justice. Mr Merkies has just heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u217	That's not my question at all. My question is, where is it coming from? Mr Nijboer may ask the cabinet, but I want to know if it is taken from somewhere else in the area of security and justice. Then, of course, the big question is where that happens. After all, we see holes everywhere. Does Mr Nijboer choose to take the money elsewhere from Security and Justice? Or do we need money on Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u218	I'm not picking anything. I hold the cabinet to the promises it has made. I would ask whether they are being implemented and whether this is possible within the current budget for security and justice. I do not detract from the ambitions that have been expressed in relation to courts, public prosecutors and police. We'll hold the cabinet to that. I will continue my speech with economic monetary union. Mr Dijsselbloem, the Minister of Finance, had Lieftinck's briefcase with him. I've just been reading the first million-dollar notes. That wasn't a lot of work, by the way, because it was a pretty short offer at the time. I thought it was striking. On September 20, 1949, two days before offering the Millions note, the pound devalues, from 4.03 for a dollar to 2.80. This will lead to an enormous devaluation throughout Europe, a wave of devaluation. The Dutch cabinet has to deal with it. That devaluation happened on Sundays. There was no internet at the time, so it was all at the printer's. Then Minister Lieftink said, among other things, hence the paper "In particular, the consideration played a role, that the economically weaker among our people, and especially those who are dependent on small fixed incomes, are most harmed by a weakening of monetary value. The reorganisation and closure of the budget was entirely part of such a policy." That is what he said in a difficult decision as to whether or not we should devalue. In the end, it was decided to go with the pound. Lieftink indicated that we should have a responsible budget and also conduct responsible monetary policy, because ultimately the weakest in society will suffer if you do not. I liked that, also well mentioned in the European debate we have had recently, because anyone who looks around in Greece also sees what bad policy ultimately has to do with it. Monetary union also includes budgetary agreements. The PvdA Group is in favour of this. That is also how I come to the Stability and Growth Pact, which is subject to adjustment as far as the PvdA Group is concerned, for three reasons. First of all, there are many criteria now: the actual deficit, the structural deficit, the path towards 60%, a corrective arm and a preventive arm, and then there are all kinds of structural deficits that the European Commission identifies. This means that the budgetary process is not transparent or predictable, nor does it lead to sound budgetary policies. The CPB points to that, too. The second problem we have is that the rules that exist, partly because they are so complex, are not applied uniformly either. France is treated differently from another country. It cannot be foreseen what the European Commission thinks of anything and there is also little democratic control of it, because we do control the Minister, but who actually controls the European Commission, which gives a salomon judgment on these budgets? That is really undesirable, because they are important decisions for individual countries. The third point arises from a very good analysis by the Central Planning Office and is perhaps the most important. The PvdA is in favour of a trendary fiscal policy. The Netherlands is known for this and we have also had the budget celebrated with the economy for many years. Not like a madman going to cut back if it's a bit disappointing, and vice versa not going to spend it like a madman if it's a little bit of lucky, but letting the budget take a little breath with the economy. Buffers build in good times so it isn't necessarily a slackening so you can catch bad times as well. This ultimately leads to lower unemployment, which is well known. The rules that have now been drawn up do not necessarily make this possible. This is also apparent from the analysis of the CPB. So on these three points, the PvdA Group would like the Stability and Growth Pact to be amended. How does the cabinet view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u219	Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u220	Not quite. Ten more minutes. With the second cup, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u221	Interesting proposals from Mr Nijboer I am also curious about the reaction of the cabinet. Mr Nijboer reflects on his own policy; I would like to say straight away that we have also participated in it. In the light of the comments on the anti-cyclical policy he is proposing, cuts in the times when things are going well and buffers for the times when things are going badly, I would point out that in recent years there have been considerable cuts. Things are getting better now, and we're gonna spend money. Again, I am looking at myself, but how does Mr Nijboer point out his own proposals in relation to what is being done now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u222	I think that is a fair question from Mrs Schouten. Let us see what has happened to the world but also to the Netherlands as an open country with a large financial sector. There's been a huge crisis. That was not a cyclical crisis; structuralally we have all become poorer. This also requires structural measures. It would have been better if these structural measures, such as mortgage interest relief, such as health care, such as the health of the financial sector, had already been taken before the start of the crisis, i.e. for 2007/2008. But those measures must also be taken in times when things are going badly. Because if you don't, you're gonna let it go. The budget deficit would have gone towards 100% by now. That would have been untenable. The structural blows will also have to be dealt with by structural measures. If something is cyclical, you have to cope with the economic cycle. That is why we need higher buffers, not just for public finances, but for society as a whole. That's a big difference. My analysis is that the financial crisis has struck so hard for five years without growth that it requires structural measures. I believe that this has also been the basis for the good economic figures we now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u223	Again, I look at myself, too, but it is Mr Nijboer who brings it up. I note that five billion is being spent on reducing costs and improving purchasing power. In the light of his own speech, would it not be more consistent if Mr Nijboer said that we should now use that as a buffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u224	No, because I also think unemployment is a huge problem. In a budget, you always have to find balance. If unemployment had been 200,000, of course, that would still be 200,000 unemployed too many, but in the light of the Dutch situation that would be favourable figures, I would agree with Mrs Schouten. While unemployment is still so high and we are well above the budget deficit under the coalition agreement and therefore have room for manoeuvre, I think this is a matter that we should give priority to. I think this is up to countries themselves, and I think it is a good thing that it is happening. That's why I support that. It is not for nothing that I started my argument with that. I come to the third issue, the financial sector. A great deal has happened there in recent years. Anyone who had predicted a banking union in Europe a few years ago would have been said to be crazy. We have the ban on commissioning and the strictest bonus legislation in Europe applies in the Netherlands. The buffers will be increased further. If you see it that way, so many measures, it is surprising that the sector is still not healthy and is still not in a good state of affairs. I think that's behavior too. I will take one example from the past few years, which bothers me and which I appeal to the sector. We have had a wide-ranging debate in Parliament on higher buffers. This debate has also been held in society and there have been hearings. There have been very strong letters from the banking lobby, in the vein of: "If you raise the buffers, credit goes to hell. If you introduce the bank tax, by the way. If you do it this way, we might just be able to make it, if the economy doesn't grow too much. But when it attracts, we really go for gauze." What does the sector do, however, first of all, as the economy attracts? Don't give credit and increase buffers, but raise the dividend on a large scale and see if more people can be adopted. That is not the way, however, and it is not consistent. The sector has lied to us in its reasoning 'we actually have too little capital if the economy is growing again', whether it is opting for itself at the expense of SMEs. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at that. I believe that Parliament should not let itself be called into question by arguments of this kind supported by DNB; DNB did the same type of analysis. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. I don't like it and discuss it here explicitly in public. It's the way culture and behavior never change. We must continue to raise the buffers. But it's gonna take a lot more than that. The sector is too large and too complex to supervise it, as far as the PvdA Group is concerned. The cabinet has done a great many things; I mentioned them. The PvdA Group also makes proposals to improve part of the sector. Accounting legislation's coming up this fall. All kinds of proposals have been made to improve quality and independence. Recently, together with Mr Groot, I have made proposals on the private equity and excesses that are taking place there and on the fight against the emptying out of businesses. Tax avoidance is a major issue in which the financial sector sometimes plays a role. There's a lot more to worry about. There are concerns about the independence of credit rating agencies and the functioning of the system. There are concerns about banks investing in each other to maintain the risk of contagion. There are concerns about government bonds that still do not have the risk weighting they deserve. The whole Parliament and the Minister agree on this. There are concerns about clearing agencies, which have very limited assets. If something goes wrong, what happens to the real economy? There is still a lot to be done in the financial sector. Much has been done, but the sector is far from in order. A third point on the financial sector, which is therefore far from being in order, is diversity. Mr Koolmees has put forward an interesting proposal to improve funding. My group chairman has done the same, and I understand that the budget for economic affairs is going to come back to it. The Dutch Innovation Bank is a way to increase funding opportunities. I have submitted an initiative law for credit unions together with the CDA. All this leads to a widening of funding opportunities, and that is a good thing. Diversity, however, is also in culture and in appointments. The supervisory functions are moving in the right direction. The Minister is partly responsible for this and I congratulate him for that. However, I see that this is still not being taken into account at the banking summit and at the summits of insurance companies. A law simply sets out the ambition that 30% of supervisory boards and boards should be women. I think it would be wise for this to apply to other disciplines as well. However, it is just a joke and nothing is done about it. There are still boards of directors that are just one hundred percent men. However, this was introduced years ago. If this continues, quotas are getting closer and closer. Finally, I come to the financial landscape in the Netherlands. We've had the discussion about ABN AMRO. Last week in De Financieele Dagblad it was written in connection with SNS that the minister starts with a clean slate. Now I am always in favour of clean slates, but I thought it was going too fast in this discussion. The PvdA really thinks it's going too fast if it's said now: SNS can now go to the fair as soon as possible. Other models are also possible. We want to keep the utility bank that SNS is now. SNS is now a utility bank and that bank should not act directly like a market player. This may be avoided if the bank is state-owned, it may be prevented by long-term capital or by pension funds investing in the bank. The PvdA is not in favour of bringing the bank to the stock market as quickly as possible, as stated in the Dutch Financial Journal of the last week. The PvdA therefore asks the Minister to investigate much better first if the other models are possible. So we're gonna need a pass at the scene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u225	You shouldn't look so invitingly at MPs standing by the interrupting microphone, Mr Nijboer. I want you to finish your story first. Then I'll see who's gonna be able to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u226	I am delighted in the debate, Mr President. However, I'm kind of in need of my final words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u227	Mr Nijboer, finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u228	Then I'll get the note with the quotes back on it, Mr. Chairman. With a quote I wanted to close and I do need a note. Of course they saw it coming that I also want to finish with a quote from Lieftinck. He said this once. "I wish that the consultations between the Government and the States-General may, on the basis of these draft laws, be for the benefit of our dear homeland." Actually, that's what he said most. However, I did not think that was the most appropriate conclusion to my speech. That's why I chose a different quote. It dates back to 1947. However, I would like to say the following. The PvdA has stated that this budget is focused on work, but is even more focused on future sustainable growth and on employment for everyone in the Netherlands in the future. That is why I am asking for this study group, and for the measures and the investments needed to do so. In addition, fiscal policy that is trendy is appropriate, and we can deal with cyclical shocks. This includes a financial sector which is being reformed even further than it is now. Only then will there be sustainable growth and the number of jobs that will be desirable in the future. So I will conclude with the words that Lieftinck uttered on 16 September 1947. "I wish that the consultations between the Government and the States-General on the basis of these draft laws may extend to the country's well-being."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u229	I'm swallowing my interruption about the banking sector. Before that, I was on the interrupting microphone, but then I did not get the floor from the President. I note, however, that ABN AMRO has the necessary missed opportunities. Another question I really want to put to Mr Nijboer. I didn't hear him in his contribution about the wealth tax. I have a feeling that this tax for the PvdA is an important point that she wanted to achieve in this Millions note. After all, this is a different way of taxing, and actually a bit progressive capital tax. Meanwhile, the vultures are flying around. They use all kinds of arguments about the justice of this system. One argument is even more pious than the other. Yet I keep hearing between the lines: we want to postpone it and move it away. Mr Buma and Mr Omtzig are following in his footsteps. Secretary of State Wiebes is helping them by saying: I can't introduce this until 2020. And tjoep, gone is the change of power tax. We all agree that we must move towards taxing the real rate of return. Will Mr Nijboer fully adhere to the introduction of the changed capital tax in box 3 from 2017, as stated in this plan? That is the only point in this Millions note that my group would like to defend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u230	I hope that the latter is not true, that GroenLinks does not care if people get a job. I do not want to accept that from Mr Grashoff. A fair distribution of income and wealth was one of the key issues in the tax debate recently. Diederik Samsom said a lot about it in the General Reviews. As far as my group is concerned, it is an essential part of the tax package. It should be introduced in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u231	That means that you will also distance yourself from what, as far as I understand, has been said by the Minister of Finance in an informal sense, namely that I should also like to see it removed from the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u232	I did not hear the Minister say that in the Chamber and I saw the cabinet submit one Tax Plan. Of course, it contains parts of both parties. For a fair capital tax, we, especially Mr Ed Groot, who is also here, have fought for years. Small savers: 1% interest and 4% tax? Undefenseable. Large savers: large returns, large capacities, far too little load. Now 90% of it is getting better. That is something that we think is important, and we have argued in favour of it, and that is what is in it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u233	I heard Mr Nijboer say something about SNS Bank. I ask this question because he was in favour of not bringing ABN AMRO to the market before the elections. After the elections they were allowed to go to the fair. Now I think he's saying something similar about SNS Bank. I want to know exactly what Mr Nijboer really wants with SNS Bank: should the bank remain in state hands, or should he still go to the market under certain conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u234	It is automatically assumed that SNS can simply go to the market. I want to see that automatism broken through today. There are alternatives, such as keeping the bank in state hands or putting it in the hands of long-term investors such as pension funds. I'd like to see all that investigated. I don't want the bank going to the market automatically. Mr Merkies can very easily say 'it must be in government hands', but all this has to be sorted out neatly. I'm not gonna yell "I don't have to," but I'd like a pass in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u235	Finally, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u236	Then I actually don't know what the PvdA stands for at this point either. It is almost a standard answer from the PvdA that there should be a committee of inquiry or that this or that should be investigated. I just want to know what the PvdA's position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u237	The position is: SNS does not automatically go to the market and is not automatically privatised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u238	At the end of Mr Nijboer's speech, I have some of his important words. I very much agree with the importance of sustainable growth. The importance of anti-cyclical fiscal policy, trendary fiscal policy? Very much so. Jobs as an absolute top priority? Very much so. Then it is a disappointment that there will be no concrete action. Look at the $5 billion package. That means 0.2% economic growth and 25,000 jobs. One more try. I have tabled a number of amendments and motions on greening to bring sustainable growth closer, which will help to boost employment and make the economy more robust. Mr Nijboer's whole speech breathes this story. Surely that must be supported by the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u239	I must first distance myself from Mr Koolmees' claim that nothing is happening at all. 5 billion! Childcare is becoming more affordable, parental leave is being increased, care investment is being invested, more money for safety, lower and middle incomes are greatly improved and jobs are also being created. So the claim that nothing is happening makes absolutely no sense; with an apology, Mr President. Can you do better? Of course, we are always open to suggestions, but it requires a majority. I will continue to observe that Mr Koolmees finds it annoying that I am doing this because, as a coalition, we have been prepared in all kinds of ways to achieve a majority in the First Chamber, first by speaking before a letter was sent, then by speaking after a letter had been sent, but D66 immediately ran away. I hope it wasn't the sandwiches, that we could have held D66 longer if it had been a copious dinner. It's too bad D66 missed that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u240	This is very cheap, but okay. If Mr Nijboer wants to live up to his words, I will give him the opportunity to do so. I shall table a motion tomorrow evening, and we shall see if the Labour Party is going to live up to all these fine words it uses in the debate. Otherwise, it's still very cheap rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u241	We can all submit motions. I can say exactly what the PvdA thinks of everything, but the art of the Tax Plan and the budget is cashing out majorities. Especially with a tax plan where there's always pain for one and beautiful thing for another, it's important to talk to each other. I'm always willing to do that, even these two days. However, there must be a majority in favour of this. It shouldn't be the case that D66 is very happy about this and will be standing alone with PvdA and GroenLinks, because then we will have too few seats in the First Chamber and we haven't achieved anything yet. That's the whole egg food here. Mr Koolmees is well aware of this, because we have had very good experience of this in recent years. I hope those experiences will resurface in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u242	There are still a number of speakers on the list. We will continue this debate later. After the suspension, we will begin to settle the work and then the debate on the General Financial Reviews will resume.
