ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister of Security and Justice and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me therefore welcome the delegation on behalf of the government in English before I begin my speech. On behalf of the Dutch government, I would like to welcome the delegation of Indonesia. I hope that they will have an enjoyable moment watching this debate and that they will take back interesting views about how parliament works in the Netherlands. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their first contribution. The Secretary of State and I have listened with interest and care. At 12.15 p.m., we replied in writing to all the questions put by the Chamber. On the basis of the following themes, a number of the questions asked will also be specifically addressed after a general introduction. These themes are finance, justice, the National Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and a number of other topics. The Secretary of State will then, with your permission, chair, deal with migration issues and other aspects of his portfolio. I've been able to meet a lot of people since my arrival. People working daily for our security and strengthening our rule of law. The dedication, the loyalty, the commitment and often the passion of these people for their work have made a deep impression on me. They are people in the National Police, both unified and non-uniform, at the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, the NCTV, the prison system, the probation, the NFI, the COA, the IND, the security chain, including with emphasis all women and men of the fire department, and other organizations belonging to our department, who work 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, for our society. People who, as a danger, are at risk, are taking a step forward if we can take a step back, because we can count on them. As a result of the refugee problem and the threat of terrorism, these organisations are currently demanding that they be able to perform at the summits. On behalf of the Secretary of State, I express my deep appreciation and respect for all these people. Thanks to their commitment and all the improvement programmes that are already underway, the Netherlands will become safer and we will strengthen our rule of law. We're not doing that alone. We do so in close cooperation with provinces and municipalities, and in particular the mayors as local authority. We also work together internationally. The European Presidency from 1 January 2016 also offers new opportunities and a number of challenges. A country without security is not a rule of law. In a country without the rule of law, you can never really be safe. Rule of law and safety cannot be without each other and should be in balance, just like the scales of Lady Justitia. That is also the starting point for my action as a minister. The atrocities in Paris and the threat of terrorism show that our attention to security cannot and must not be weakened. Violent fanatics who prepare and commit acts of terrorism must be combated by all means possible under the rule of law. This threat also obliges us to think again and again about what measures are needed to deal with this threat. In the rule of law that I defend, no one is arrested and detained for no reason, suspects are defended and they are given a fair trial, suspects are heard, victims and relatives have a voice, justice is spoken by independent judges, his police and justice are bound by strict rules and there is the possibility of appeal and cassation. The rule of law I stand for gives people the opportunity to develop, to give them what they want, to contribute to our society and to live in freedom. The rule of law I stand for gives people and businesses the opportunity to work, to undertake and to make money. The rule of law I stand for fights crime, strengthens people's sense of justice, contributes to the resolution of crimes, does not pay crime and that perpetrators are punished. This task is more important than ever under threat of terrorism. Security and the rule of law can also seem to be opposed to each other. That is why, in every measure we take, we need to find the right balance between guaranteeing security on the one hand and the limits of the rule of law on the other. However, this is not the only task of our department. Even in everyday life, Dutch people are exposed to the law and thus to the work of the Ministry of Security and Justice. Civil and administrative law play an important order-making role in our society. Civil law provides legal protection, including against the action of the government, sets rules on which people can fall back in conflict, helps solve dilemmas and, finally, also forms the basis of our economic life. When people are getting married or living together, having children, buying a house, applying for a mortgage, entering into a contract of employment or collecting an unpaid bill, civil law is at their service, even if they have a conflict on one of these subjects. That is why one of the mottos of the Ministry of Security and Justice is: justice affects people, or as I myself sometimes say, without the Civil Code you cannot be born or die. One question that we are preparing for in this context for the future is, for example,: does family law fit sufficiently with the new forms of society and the actual parenthood that we see in society? For this purpose, the State Committee on Family Law, which will present its report next year, has been set up. Another question that is relevant in civil law is: what is the meaning of ownership in the digital world in which everyone can easily multiply and distribute pieces and actually print everything in 3D? I hope to be able to discuss these and many other questions with the Chamber in 2016. Administrative law is also constantly in motion. There are many questions there too. I'll mention a few. How do we see the future of general administrative law when people need, above all, an easy-to-understand settlement of disputes between government and individuals? Can we not also place the dispute at the centre of an efficient solution to administrative procedures rather than the decision that is still at the heart of the matter so that the dispute can be resolved more efficiently? In the meantime, the Ministry of Security and Justice itself is also working on change projects in several areas, including the results of the Hoekstra Committee, but also after the debate on the Volkert van der G. I expect more from the Oosting Committee. The Ministry's shop will be heavily renovated in the near future, but will remain open in the meantime. A lot of time and energy is invested in this process of change. New approaches are being developed and cooperation improved. Meetings are currently being organized in all parts of the department to shape this. A lot of suggestions have been received from employees. An example of how different work is going to be done is that many more internal checks and balances will be applied and that the outside world will be brought in to shape a number of crucial pathways. In this sense, the Ministry also responds to the comments made by Mr Recourt in his first term. As I have already promised, I will inform the Chamber of all the measures taken in the department before February.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	That's a nice opening from the Minister. I make the point: straight hits people. It seems that in recent times the Minister has not lived in the reality of his own ministry and responsibility. Cuts affect people. Cuts affect the rule of law. Cuts affect access to justice. I would like to hear much more from the Minister, in addition to all the fine intentions he has for the future, about what he thinks of his own budget he submitted on Princess Day and about the fact that he had to send a new budget on that last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	I'll do that in the finance block. In this context, I would like to return to the question put by Mr Pechtold in his first term concerning the way in which the letter sent by us last Friday should be interpreted. The block of finance is the next block, so if Mr Pechtold will allow me, I will go into it in more detail in that block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Minister deals with his own order and his own urgency, but this is significant. As far as I am concerned, the story that has just been kept could be kept at a faculty of law or anywhere else. It contains many generalities that I think are fine. But does the minister know where he got in? Does he realize what an incredible mess it was at the ministry, is still and, if we're not careful, will stay? Is the Minister aware that all this has to do with political direction? Does the Minister realize that all this has to do with the miserable funding of the last five years under VVD administration? I'll wait for the block in which the Minister responds, but I had hoped that he would start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan bevestigen dat ik zeer goed doorheb waar ik enkele maanden geleden in ben gestapt.]] I can't confirm there's a mess in the Ministry. I don't share that image. I do, however, share this view in the debate on Volkert van der G. I fully agree with Mr Pechtold. I have just said how we are going to deal with this in a general sense. By the way, it is clear that there were financial bottlenecks. That is also the essence of the letter we sent to the Chamber last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	Last year I referred to Mr Van Oosten's speech on behalf of the VVD. He then came up with all kinds of initiative legislative proposals that the VVD had submitted. My question at the time was: if you put forward so many legislative proposals, what exactly is the Ministry doing right? I'm asking the Minister that question now. He comes with a very large general introduction with beautiful words, whatever you may think of that. He then brings up the Wolfsen Committee, which he did not even mention, so I would like to mention the Oosting Committee and the Hoekstra Committee. Those are all committees set up because something didn't go well. Legal aid, the search chain, et cetera. My question to the Minister is somewhat along the lines of Mr Pechtold's: what is actually going well in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mrs Helder is now asking a general question. Mrs Helder also knows that a lot is going very well, both in the Ministry and in all the implementing bodies for which I am responsible. With the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the probation, the NFI and the prison system go day in and day out a lot of very good. I am therefore extremely proud, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that all these people work so hard and do such good things day in and day out. However, this does not mean that everything is flawless and that we can say that there is nothing more to do. If that is what we need, we have committees for it, and if it is not necessary, we will do it ourselves. That's the usual way of doing things. This was also the usual course of events in the years when the PVV was part of the Rutte I cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	Then we sent the two coalition partners regularly. That's still my job in the opposition, so I'm gonna try again. My question was general, but the Minister's introduction was also general, as I said just now. You can go both ways. I'm going to go with the Minister now. Those committees were there for a reason. Of course there's a lot going well, but it has to keep going well. Things aren't gonna go well right now. That's what the committees say. They're not set for nothing. We are waiting for their reports, but the conclusion is that there must be money. So I too am curious about the block of finance, but I have a hard head in it. I won't ask a question about it and I'll see what the Minister says. I hope he doesn't put water, but money into the wine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	I do not know how that works, because Mrs Helder has already said, on behalf of her group, at first reading, that she is voting against this budget in any case, without waiting for this debate, without considering the answers from me or the Secretary of State relevant and without wanting to have a contribution or thought formation with the government. The debate that Mrs Helder is asking does not make much sense in relation to the PVV Group, with all due respect. But I am happy to do so, because I think the debate is essential. I also think it is heard that you are coming to final conclusions in the debate with the Chamber. That is why I regret, as I say in all honesty, that the PVV Group has already indicated that the debate does not matter and that the choice is ready for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mrs. Helder, you will be addressed immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yeah, and then I can't let him walk. I didn't ask a question. I said: I am curious; my group is curious. You can always be curious about answers when you know what your group's position is. Then you can still be curious about the answers. The Minister knows that as a good lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	But that does mean that Mrs Helder's curiosity will not lead to a different opinion from her group. Therefore, before a debate has taken place, the PVV Group has already said that it will vote against this budget, no matter what happens in the debate. As a result, the additional investments that Mrs Helder wants and why she is asking cannot continue. It is therefore necessary to vote in favour of the budget, including the letter of amendment I sent to the Chamber last night. Then we can make these additional investments. I very much regret that, and I regret it. I hope that the Upper Parliamentary Group of the PVV will take a slightly different view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	On Friday we discovered that the department was not really able to produce a good budget, because we were sent a draft budget, as Mr Pechtold said. Today we hear the Minister tell us that there has been some sort of management speech: we bring in knowledge from outside, we are going to appeal to each other more and the culture needs to be better. That's the kind of speech that a lot of directors make after the financial statements come out. Yesterday there was also a whole set of routes in the questions, one of which cannot succeed, is delayed or is too expensive. The committees that look at it have just been listed. What can the Minister give the Chamber so that it can have confidence that the budget will work out, that V and J will suddenly become a transparent, hard-working department, that the ICT will be put in place, that the National Police will be successfully reorganised, within budget and to the satisfaction of the citizens and police officers themselves, and so on? Where can we build that confidence from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	Of course, I can't fill that out for Mrs Van Tongeren. She asks how she can build that trust, but that is, of course, her own assessment. I'll tell you how we're gonna do it, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, how we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, how we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, how we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, what we're gonna do, how we're gonna That was also the essence of the review debate on the National Police. Moreover, on the basis of her first remark, I would like to say that each budget is a draft legislative proposal, which is discussed in the Chamber. The budget will not be established until the Court has given its assent. In this way, the law, which is the budget, has been adopted. The fact that it is a draft budget should not surprise Mrs van Tongeren either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u16	I am a little disappointed in the Minister's response. The Minister stands in front of his department and says: it does not need to be split up, we can do just fine with this format and the decision to set up two directors instead of four if we would continue in split form was also good. But then he only refers to something that sounds a bit like "muddling through." I assume that this minister has a higher ambition than a little bit of rag here, a little bit of begging in the First Chamber and a little bit of looking for money in the corners of the department. There's got to be a higher ambition. I assume that the Minister will say things to this Chamber that make her think: well, with this filled budget and with these texts we will really get there. So would the Minister make another attempt to outline to me why this Chamber can really think after his speech: now it will work with V and J, it will really be the thriving department that we need in this rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u17	Of course, I'd like to live up to that. That is the essence of the budgetary procedure and of all the debates I have with the Chamber. If we find problems, we'll be open to them and we'll put them before the Chamber. We take concrete measures and then implement them. We will inform the Chamber about this progress. We make sharp choices in that, which we shape together with the Chamber. I think that the review debate on the reorganisation of the National Police is actually a good example of how we did that. We talked to the Chamber about this because it was very much a matter of concern. I have also acknowledged that these concerns have been there for a long time. Then I looked very closely at that. That assignment was already there during my predecessor. We took a good look at that together. We then came up with concrete measures. That's the way you're supposed to act as a minister. That's how I'm gonna keep doing it for as long as I have this job. It is up to Mrs Van Tongeren to assess, on the basis of results, whether the confidence I ask of her is justified. That is up to Mrs Van Tongeren and her group. To date, I, including the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, experience confidence when you do the right things, when you clearly state what is going on and offer the right solutions, as we do with this budget and the supplementary budget proposals last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u18	This Minister speaks loudly about the field where it is all to be done. I have a bit of a problem with the Minister pretending to be doing so well thanks to the cabinet and the ministry. I would rather say that the police, the judges and the public prosecutors, despite the blunders of this cabinet and the cuts, are still able to do their job as well as possible. I'm asking the Minister for a ruling. We have repeatedly, year after year, warned against a budget deficit. On Prinsjesdag there was another warning about large gaps in the budget of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u19	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u20	On Friday, half a note came to the Chamber with half solutions. Is the Minister satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u21	That was four or five questions. I'll try to answer them all. Firstly, I do not share Mrs Kooiman's political analysis, but Mrs Kooiman understands that. I do agree with her that in recent years I have been a Member of Parliament myself and have also contributed to it, especially from the opposition parties SP, D66, CDA and also the PVV, I say in all fairness, often and a lot of attention has been asked for problems. I recognize that, and I do. This has been one of the reasons why, during the General Political Reviews, where the coalition parties have also expressed themselves in the same way, they have made a commitment that a letter from the Minister of Security and Justice and the Minister of Finance will come before the budget together on the problems identified and the solutions to them. Those solutions are now before us. The letter states that we depend on the results of ongoing investigations in a number of areas. These results will come in spring. I think that the package before us is sufficient to adequately resolve the bottlenecks in the letter, including what will be discussed in the spring, including in the debate with the Chamber. In doing so, it helps that a reservation has been made for a number of unknown amounts. This applies, for example, to the police-cao. Mrs Kooiman agrees with me that it should be there as soon as possible. With that reservation we have funding available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mrs. Kooiman, could you put your follow-up question a little shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u23	The Minister makes such a mess of things that it sometimes requires more words. Let me remind you of Friday's letter. The Minister and the Cabinet repeatedly shoot very big holes in the budget. Then the Minister fills it halfway and says: look how well filled this is! That's what's going on. The police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judges all indicate that this is not enough. However, I read in the answer to the written questions that the Minister does not move a single centimetre. How does the Minister judge this fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u24	That's a lot of questions about a lot of parts. I'll try to answer them briefly. I don't recognize myself in the image that I would have messed up. I can do a lot, but for the short time I've been here as a minister, that's really too much honor that's being waved at me. From day one, I have looked very concretely at where to do better and what is needed. That's what we've done with the recalibrate of the National Police. That is also what we have done with the Parliament-wide shared concerns about the budget. There's 310 million in total. Of these, 60 million are occasional for the refugee problem and 250 million are structural for a number of other problems. I really don't recognize the image that this is nothing at all, as Mrs Kooiman says. This is a structural amount also mentioned by D66 and the CDA as the minimum amount needed to put the case in order. I am pleased that the cabinet has been able to find that amount and that we can take great steps forward. I would like to make the observation that a debate will follow in the spring. That's what the letter says. I was at the last page and a half of my introduction. I had just outlined that in the process of change that the ministry is going through, a lot of suggestions from employees have also been included. I have already said that we are going to work more with checks-and-balances in a number of examples. That's what I just heard back from the room. The outside world will be brought in, as Mr Recourt suggested, to shape a number of crucial pathways. In February, the Chamber will be informed in more detail about what is going to happen in concrete terms within the department. I will also take into account any recommendations made by the Oosting Committee. All these efforts must be seen in the light of the mission of the Ministry of Security and Justice, namely to keep society free and safe, to strengthen our rule of law and to make the Netherlands safer. I welcome every contribution from the Chamber to accomplish this great, important and beautiful task. I feel, in the first term of this debate, but actually in all debates and AO's, the enormous involvement of the Chamber. Many, if not all, parties pay attention to the field of Security and Justice. However, I also feel the concerns. In a lot of areas, I would also like to return this to Mrs Kooiman, who has been concerned for a long time. The Secretary of State and I appreciate the concern. In the coming period, we will do with this concern what we, as Minister and Secretary of State, can do with it. I have said that I will deal with the specific issues. I'll start with the financials. The case law, the national police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and a number of other subjects on which specific questions have been asked will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u25	Before we go into the financials, let me first talk about the general picture of the Ministry. I do not think there has been anyone who blamed these two rulers in the first place for being far from in order in the Ministry. However, I would like to hear from the Minister what he himself has found, apart from the input he receives from officials. Then we will get to the financial part in a moment. What structure and culture has the Minister found? After all, there are many incidents for a reason. Not for nothing is the series of reports a kind of trend rather than that everything is separate from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u26	That is a good question from Mr Pechtold. I'll just sketch what I've experienced. From day one, I have been deeply impressed by the enormous quality, passion, commitment and conviction of the people to work on the broad range of tasks of the ministry. At the same time, I have seen that this also leads to the fact that the communication between the tubes in such a department, Mr Pechtold as former minister, knows that, of course, it is not always a good thing. That is why, in good consultation with the Ministry of Finance, we have decided to organise financial control in a different way. We've got to get rid of that cookie. The communication between the organizational parts can be much better. This is a longer answer, Mr President, but I really need to answer this question carefully in order to do justice to the people working in the department. I want to push away the idea that the department is not working properly. However, cooperation can be improved not only within the department, but also between the implementation organisations. Furthermore, political sensitivity within the department can definitely improve. We certainly saw this in the debate on Volkert van der G. That means a piece of cultural change. Everyone in this room knows how complicated that is. This task has been undertaken by the Secretary-General. We are going to do everything we can, also with the help of third parties from outside, to achieve that project properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u27	I have one final question on the general introduction and on culture, as the Minister calls it. Over the last few years, I have been particularly disturbed by the discrepancy, the difference, between the raging press releases that sometimes take advantage of each other and actually contain little news when you study them more closely and on the other hand the incidents and the problems. Does the Minister agree with me that the Department of Security and Justice should, in the coming year, make sure that the situation is settled internally and that it should also focus on finance, which we will be discussing shortly? I think the department should change the atmosphere of the raging press releases. It could be a little lower, given the state in which the department is now located.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u28	Of course, I think your successes should continue to unfold. Let's be real: there's a lot going on. The Netherlands is becoming increasingly safer. I do not want to do that entirely on my department's account, because that would be unrealistic, but it is a fact that the number of prisoners is falling dramatically. Furthermore, the commitment to the high impact crimes, such as burglaries, which are so well defined by my predecessor, is a great success. It is an example for other countries. People come to us to see how we managed to achieve so much success. At the same time, I'm realistic. We will always be plagued by incidents. In the ministry's work, things will always not go well. I think you should be realistic about that, too. I stand for it, and I cannot judge whether that is different from the times of my predecessors, that we are realistic, that we give credit where it is necessary, but that we also report fairly, openly and transparently on the things that are not going well. Last Monday's letter is an example of that. If I find that there is a problem somewhere, then I also think that the Chamber should know that. We do this openly and transparently. As far as I'm concerned, that's the way you're supposed to do it. Then I'm gonna get to the finance block. Last week, the Chamber of the Minister of Finance and I received a letter stating how the Cabinet has made the 2016 budget more solid. This letter was inspired by the comprehensive concern shared by the Chamber about the sustainability of our budget. As I said, that care was shared Chamberwide. I am thinking not only of Mrs Kooiman from the SP Group but also of Mrs Berndsen from the D66 Group, as well as of the CDA Group, the PVV Group, the SGP Group and the Christian Union Group. These are all political groups that have spoken critically about finance in the past. Many speakers, including Mr Bontes, have also made comments on the need for austerity, especially with regard to the National Police. The need for austerity was motivated by the financial crisis facing the government. This meant that Security and Justice have also contributed to this, but it is understandable and good that there has always been a great deal of concern and criticism on this issue. They have also helped to make a substantial improvement with this budget and thanks to the commitment of all parties. It is an improvement which provides additional resources in a number of areas of great concern. I am also grateful to the Chamber for the critical comments it has made in that context. Mr Pechtold referred to the fact that the letter sent on Friday had the title "budget 2016" and that the budget documents submitted on Prinsjesdag had the name "rich budget 2016." Any misunderstandings that may have arisen with Mr Pechtold, I would like to remove. The budget documents submitted on Prinsjesdag are of course a draft law and a draft law is only law after agreement by the Second and First Chambers. So what we are discussing these days is the draft budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice for 2016. It is therefore consistent that the letter, as it were, which complements that budget, concerns the letter which has now been contained in a letter of amendment which I sent to the Chamber last night, bearing the title "Preliminary Draft Budget 2016 Security and Justice'. I do agree with Mr Pechtold that it would have been better if the letter had been entitled "supplementing the draft budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice for the year 2016.' Mr Pechtold then asked what exactly is the subject of today's debate. The answer is that it concerns the draft budget plus the supplement in the letter contained in the letter of amendment. Mr Voordewind asked for a letter of amendment before the vote, and I thought that was perfectly right. That is why we have completed the note as a matter of urgency. Also in response to the comments of the parties in the first term, we have offered to the Chamber the note. The letter of amendment thus contains all the budgetary intentions, as expressed in the budget letter and translated into the various budget articles. In this way the Court can give its opinion on the draft budget plus the proposed amendments. Leadership has also been the Brinkman motion, supported by many other parties in the Upper House, and the comments of D66 and CDA in the Lower House, as well as the remarks of Mr Van Haersma Buma, for example, who I now see in this Chamber, in the media. These led to the idea that an additional investment of 200 million would be necessary. The cabinet did the same. The cabinet provides 310 million for 2016, of which 250 million for 2017 and subsequent years. Several questions have been asked about their use, and I shall return to the various points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u29	Yesterday I said it, but I would like to repeat it today: I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the Minister has seen this and has thus also got the cabinet so far that it is important to adjust the initial start of the budget. However, I also said yesterday that the budget of Princess Day would have become 'the' budget without that additional money if the VVD and the PvdA had had a majority in the First Chamber. I think it is important for the Minister to reflect again why he himself did not direct himself to finance when he took office and the rest of the cabinet said that he could not, because there were holes in his budget for 250 to 300 million. Why was pressure from the Chamber and especially from the opposition needed to bring the cabinet to that understanding at two to twelve? I think that is important, because I know how to deal with setbacks in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u30	I do not think it is up to me to share my feelings and thoughts publicly with the Chamber in the first days of my presidency, but I can only say that I was also aware that there were certain risks in that budget. I am looking at this in the direction of the VVD Group, which I have heard many times in recent months. However, having and identifying risks is something else than they can solve. As Mr Pechtold knows as no other, it is up to the ministers themselves to find solutions within their own budget. If that search doesn't work, you'll depend on the cabinet. I am very proud that the cabinet has had the opportunity to do so. I agree with Mr Pechtold that it may have played a role in this that the cabinet in the First Chamber cannot automatically have a majority. This does not mean that there was no awareness that there were risks in the budget. That's clear. As far as the last part of Mr Pechtold's question is concerned, I have already said that a number of investigations are under way. One of these is the examination of whether the task-setting austerity on the National Police of the past is sustainable in the light of the postponement of the reorganisation. I do not rule out the fact that, as I wrote in the letter, it has to be found again in the spring that additional money is needed. Well, that depends on how the reservations end. I don't know that until spring. There might be room for that in the reservation I've included now, but I'm not sure. This will be evident in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u31	I'm glad the Minister speaks so openly about this. Let us not forget that there was money for 5 billion relief and for two times 250 million ascending together to 750 million for key spearheads that VVD and PvdA had invented together. But there was no thought of Justice, while the hole we're closing now is about the same size as the wish list that was shared together. I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that it is now due to opposition pressure. I would like to talk to the Minister in a moment about how the Spring Paper is going through with the same speed. For me today, not only the closing of holes will be central, but the intention of the cabinet with the minister in the lead, to get as much clarity as possible about the rest of the open ends today. The Minister must be serious; not vague promises, but a wary minister who shows that he is going to take care of things in the spring note. If I could get that commitment as a start on the whole wish list, that would be a good start.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr Pechtold presented this as one of the components of a long wish list. Then the question is whether I should admit now or whether I should look at it at the end. I suggest that this is also clearly stated in the letter. A number of investigations are under way, particularly in the case of the National Police. That is also simply because we cannot see what else is needed there at the moment. Of course there are all kinds of people who say that everything is necessary, but I also want to know and I also think that I should be able to say to your Chamber: this is necessary, no more and no less. That will mean that we have the results at and around the Spring Note. As stated in the letter, I will be wary of that word, and I can imagine a great deal in order to resolve these problems. That's what the letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u33	A combative effort to solve bottlenecks sounds like music to me. We have now discussed bottlenecks in many areas. What is the lesson the minister draws from that? Has there been sufficient buffer capacity in services such as the Public Prosecutor's Office to respond to new challenges?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u34	I warmly commend Mr Van der Staaij to De Galan-II's report and its validation, because that is a good example of how it has often happened in the past. A budget is presented or a claim is made and then it is up to the department to see if that claim is correct. We have now chosen to have that validated externally. Then it turns out that the Public Prosecutor's Office is richer than it is in a number of areas, but in other areas, for example, it is making a claim that the validation says is not really necessary because it can be within the existing resources and with the ambitions that lie ahead. My line would be that, as we have also stated in the letter, I would like to see much more review of what is really needed in the spring too, so that we can have the debate here, not on thoughts but on facts. I think that can be expected from me as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u35	That sounds nice, but the practice is that you can easily end up in a report war, in which one research report says so and the other says so again. When I look back, I do conclude that there is a broad recognition: yes, at some point there was not enough room to do anything extra to counter jihadism or organized crime and: yes, money has been added. However, this leads to a loss of time which makes it impossible to respond to new challenges simply because there is too little stretch in the total budgets. So wouldn't it be a better line for the future to consciously leave a little more strain on these budgets, but also from the firm expectation that new challenges will be addressed immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u36	In a way, that is also the line of this budget, because there is now a reservation of 138 million, which is basically used for two to three subjects. If there is anything left of it, I can use it in other areas as well. If there is a shortage, we will have a debate on this in the spring. I think that is very good, but I will pass on the suggestion for a broad budget to the Minister of Finance. Knowing him, I also know about how that is received. I will inform Mr Van der Staaij of that at Christmas with a personal Christmas card.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u37	That is just too easy, because I understand that the current period is all difficult, but we started this period on the basis of all kinds of analyses and fine reports that a lot of money could be saved on security. After a few years, you actually see everyone saying something different. This also has to do with political choices at the beginning of a period, in a world that you simply know will not suddenly be much safer in one or two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u38	The nice thing is that it has become safer in recent years, in part, as has also been established in research, thanks to the policy pursued by the department and by all implementing organisations. That's what I want to mark here. At the same time, the cabinet, when it was established that extra money was needed for the threat of terrorism and jihadism, simply came up with the 128 million. When Mr Van der Staaij asked for an extra boost to the Public Prosecutor's Office of 20 million, it simply came. When the Hoekstra committee found that a number of urgent measures had to be taken, they were simply taken. So that line has always been there, but at the same time we have now said, partly thanks to the comments made by many of the Members of your Chamber, that there was also a need for a structural additional investment. There's been one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u39	I got a little mad when the minister knocked on his chest about the 250 million. In my opinion, it is quite wrong for the Minister to be so proud of that. In fact, most of the legislation has been financed which restricts access to the law. The counselor in interrogation, of course, comes from that money. The police-cao, of which we now know more because the pension premium is only going up, will only cost money. We also know that there are huge setbacks to be expected at the National Police. Under the line, there's almost nothing left. Of those 250 million, holes are filled. So what is the minister actually going to do? What remains to maintain the rule of law and promote the security of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u40	Once again, I do not recognize myself in the analysis that Mrs Kooiman makes of the communications I have just made. I think that I have just described the important role played by the opposition in bringing about this supplementary budget change. I thought Mr Pechtold explicitly confirmed that. That's what I've been doing to the SP. So I don't recognize myself in that image. I also disagree with what Mrs Kooiman then says about what we are doing with the 250 million. Yes, 50 million is forced to cover legislative proposals which the government felt should be withdrawn, also because of the chance that they would be killed in the First or Second Chamber. But the 200 million is simply invested in the subjects that we all feel are necessary. I believe that this has given an excellent impetus to the solution of the problem which has also been included in the letter. I would refer Mrs Kooiman to the letter and the letter of amendment for the exact amounts, but she knows Mrs Kooiman better than anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u41	This minister continues to brush away his own mistakes and setbacks with the extra resources. That is his right, but I would also like to hear the Minister honestly say that there is nothing left under the line. There are all new setbacks to be expected. The collective agreement is not yet included, the counselor is hardly in the interrogation. If you look at what the National Police are getting hold of and at the gaps in the budget that we have already warned about, then surely we cannot believe that the Minister wants to close his eyes and move that forward to spring? That is what I hear the Minister say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u42	Perhaps it would be a good idea if I could give Mrs Kooiman a little help by telling her how the system of financing works in the Chamber. We just have a budget. We'll vote on that. Then we have a spring and autumn note. They are used to solve bottlenecks that have arisen over the course of the journey. That use has been there for years. In all these five years I have been acting together with Mrs Kooiman as a Member of Parliament, that was with great pleasure, I would add.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u43	Governing is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mrs. Kooiman now calls for government to be forward-looking. One example of this is the reservation of 138 million. We know that in the short term additional money is needed in a number of areas: the police cao, the implementation of the contour note and the possible results of the Wolfsen Commission. That's why we made a reservation. Mrs Kooiman asks how much of that remains and whether that is enough. If I knew that, of course I wouldn't have made a reservation, but I would have specifically intended it. I understand very well, and I also see that I cannot convince Mrs. Kooiman. She shouldn't be convinced either. I think she is wronging the impulse that is being given now by saying that there is nothing left under the line. There is a very structural investment of 200 million in the subjects that are of great importance to me and the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u45	The Minister just said that the budget is being laid down, the Chamber discusses it and votes on it. But doesn't that apply to all departments? I read from the coverage proposals in the explanatory memorandum of the letter of amendment under point (g) a contribution from other departments. These other departments have laid down their budgets and some of them have already been debated. So, for example, is money from the Wadden Fund of the EZ budget contained in such a "contribution to other departments"? Is there money there from another budget? Is it not true that this actually violates the budget law of the Chamber, because shifts between the various budgets are in principle taking place in the context of the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews? Now, for example, we cannot go back to the Minister of Economic Affairs to say: no, the Chamber does not agree with the slide that you have agreed between the Wadden Fund and V and J. That debate will not be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u46	I can reassure Mrs Van Tongeren on this point. The completion of this amount comes with the Spring Note. Mrs Van Tongeren can hold the debate with the government on the Spring Paper and the choices made in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u47	But then we get a total 'near enough is good enough' budget. Then each department can take up cover under point 10.g and say: in what we may be short, in the budget strain, we include: "Contribute other departments; Room, you belong in the spring of us." That, of course, is not a proper way of budgeting and does not do justice to a thorough debate with the Chamber on all budgets. The Minister agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u48	No, I disagree with Mrs Van Tongeren. This is just how it goes. We made that deal with the government. The content will be the subject of the Spring Note. That's how it goes. I can't help it either. Mrs Van Tongeren is quite free to share her thoughts on this issue with the Minister of Finance or with me in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u49	I hear the Minister saying that he cannot convince Mrs Kooiman, but I am not convinced either. Everyone's asking us, "You're gonna get the $200 million you wanted, right?" There's a big catch: the police cao. There is nothing the Chamber can do about that; that is something between the unions and the minister. But, of course, we hear amounts from 60 million to 80 million. And then, of course, we cannot possibly be satisfied. Perhaps the Minister will be able to clarify this more clearly. I understand his difficult position with these negotiations, but the Chamber has to check it and it is difficult to say yes to something that we do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u50	As much as I'd like to do this... In fact, I would like to say to Mr Oskam that I now know exactly what the amount involved in the police cao is, because I have long concluded that collective agreement. As Mr Oskam knows, I am very sorry that this has not been possible, also because I did not have any financial space to meet the additional demands of the unions. These additional demands were added to the wage-space agreement reached by the government with three of the four trade unions, which, moreover, led to collective agreements in all other areas of the state domain, including the judiciary for which I am responsible and which I was able to conclude a collective agreement very quickly. For the National Police, that was not possible. I have always said that I understand the views of the National Police and the Unions, because they say that they have had so many long-term reorganisation experiences, that they want something extra. That discussion is being held. We have appointed a scout. In the written reply, I gave Mr Oskam a very precise explanation of the points that the explorer considered that improvements could be agreed. He cannot expect me to say now: it is either this or that. That would harm my position vis-à-vis the police unions, and I do not think that is what Mr Oskam wants either. I'd love to, but I really can't answer it. What I can say is certainly also important for Mr Oskam. At a time when it would appear that the reservation of 138 million is not enough for the purposes we have set out, a debate, as I have indicated in the letter, will have to take place in spring with the Spring paper. I also said earlier to Mr Pechtold that I would be wary. By the way, I assume that this reservation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr Pechtold, I am a little hesitant to give you the floor, because I have heard the Minister make this point before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr President, after the financial crisis we all get small things, and that is why it is so important to know clearly at the start of the first-term response what the cabinet's commitment to finance is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u53	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u54	I think the word "combatant" is fantastic and I will certainly stick to it. There are two problems in Friday's letter. The first is that there could be very little left of the 138 million. We do not know how big the cuckoo cub of the collective agreement will grow within that 138. I give the police a fantastic collective agreement, but that makes it all unclear now. The second problem is the amount of 50 million collected from all other ministries. I wouldn't like Education, but others will say about Defense: you're taking it away from one security ministry to be able to give it to the other security ministry. It's fine that the minister is combatable, but if it leads to new holes, will they be closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr Pechtold knows better than anyone that I cannot say. After all, that's not just up to me. If it was up to me, it wasn't a problem, but it's not. He too knows that it will depend on the financial pictures in spring. I would also like to refer to the other bottleneck mentioned in the letter: the extent to which the National Police is able to meet the declared efficiency targets. This is because it was assumed that the whole reorganisation would have been completed this year. We didn't save it; we extended it. At the time that I made that choice in the review note, I said in good consultation that I realized that I need to know exactly whether it is realistic to expect the National Police to be able to make that contribution. In spring, it will be clear whether that is the case. If that is not the case, then my ability to fight will also be necessary in that regard. There are, therefore, several elements, of which I am unable to assess with certainty. The letter, which was co-signed by the Minister of Finance, states that these bottlenecks will then be looked at. I say to Mr Pechtold that I will do everything I can to solve the problems, but I cannot do so alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u56	That's why it's so important. Yesterday we said: the Minister is under curate, because the Minister of Finance must sign his letter. Let me give it a positive turn: precisely because the Finance Minister signed it, I think that finance now bears more responsibility than in other cases for the realistic letter we received on Friday. Normally, the whole cabinet would be responsible for this, but that is all the more so now. I would find it an unpleasant situation for the Chamber if the Chamber had to put the Minister under curately by saying: I am actually giving it under some kind of reservation. I want to be able to trust that the current assumptions, despite the collective agreements and despite the fact that money has to be raised from other ministries, are realistic and that any gaps will be closed. We all know what the definition of realistic is and what gaps we can still run into. The Minister said: 'We can of course also talk about the ambitions 'that he is combatable', but at least we would have put an end to that cheese. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u57	I agree with Mr Pechtold. That's exactly what I said. In addition, I see that we are also doing research in a number of areas that may lead to new bottlenecks. We will have to find a solution to that. I'll do that with the same combat ability. I do not recognize myself in the image that I am under curately. Mr Pechtold brought it yesterday a bit like a bêtise, a bully. Mr Pechtold also knows that if I were under curately, I would not have to do anything more. Then you can sit back and say, "So fix it." That's not how the system works. What did we do? We have made good agreements, noting that in the financial control field things have been difficult in the past in my department. We have made good agreements with Finance to get these financial problems under control together. That's why the letter was signed together. I see exactly what Mr Pechtold says: give it a positive turn. I have the same positive attitude. We are working together with the Minister of Finance to solve the bottlenecks that will then emerge in the spring. By the way, I assume that this 138 million is enough for the subjects I mentioned in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mrs Van Tongeren, you too have the floor under the conditions that Mr Pechtold formulated for himself. We now need to intervene a little more so that we can continue further on. Otherwise, it's gonna be really late tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u59	I've only had three interruptions all day yesterday. I've made very limited use of my right to interrupt. I am glad that the President will allow me to ask this question, because we are talking about the budget. I said that we are considering whether we can support the Minister on the basis of the answers we are receiving today. The Minister referred to a number of issues which were either revised from the table or thoroughly: the increase in registry fees and the own contribution to the criminal proceedings. GroenLinks is pleased with that. The question of how we collect money from the other departments and whether we will not receive such a post in every budget in future in order to bring the matter to a close has not yet been adequately answered in my view. The same goes for point f, the cash drawer. The cash drawer is actually just borrowing the future from another cabinet. It's being pushed from the future to now, this way. I can understand if that is not too thorough in, for example, an infrastructure budget. In this budget, however, you simply assume that a future cabinet will have to look for it. Isn't there another way for g and f? The cabinet has found 200 million in a short space of time. Well, then it's gonna have to work out how to find the $52 million, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr President, you like short answers. The answer is no. I'm gonna move on to the financials section. I would just like to confirm that, as indicated in the letter, there are still remaining challenges for the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice that can be addressed at the appropriate moments in the budgetary process, such as the Spring Paper. It is also good to note that there is no evidence that the trend of declining recorded crime that has existed for a number of years would have come to a halt. This means that this decline, which is also expected in the coming years, will be reflected in the so-called PMJ estimates. This will have repercussions on the scale of the budgets needed for, for example, the criminal justice chain and, in particular, justice. The validation of the multiannual Council for Justice also states that it is not until spring that the final conclusions can be drawn on what the Council needs for future case law. We will have a new, better picture of what will be needed for the criminal justice chain in the spring. Then we also know better what possible deficits there are still. Nevertheless, we have already found that it is necessary for the Council to receive a structural contribution to justice, because, as has been pointed out and the external expert has validated, the Council for the case-law that needs money for a number of investments for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u61	The Minister is now finally right to say that registered crime is falling. My group has argued that one of the reasons is that the citizen makes less accusations because it does not help. Former Minister Opstelten then promised a report on the quality of the declarations. It would take into account why the citizen makes less accusations. I do not know how many times that report is postponed; we still do not have it. Can the Minister promise that we will get that before the summer recess of 2016? It would be there before the summer recess of 2015. Let's just have a little patience. Is the room gonna get it? Only then can we really see why registered crime is falling. You can therefore match the PMJ estimates accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u62	I didn't know about my predecessor, but at least I promised that investigation myself. As I said explicitly in the direction of Mr Bontes, I think it is very important that we know why the willingness to report is falling and what the government can do about it. I don't know what the intended date of publication of the report is. In the second period, I will specifically attach that date to it. I personally think it is very important that that report should be produced. However, in order to remove Mrs Helder's concern, I note that the perceived victimisation, which is simply determined on the basis of open surveys, is also falling and not so little too. Apart from the reduction in the number of declarations, the number of people who answer no to the question in scientifically sound surveys is also falling. These two figures can be taken together: crime and victimisation in the Netherlands are falling. This will be reflected in the PMJ estimates, which will give room again for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u63	Then I will wait for that in the second term, but in the answer the Minister just made the mistake again by saying: crime is falling. I'd like to give you that: registered crime is falling. We're gonna wait and see why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mrs Helder must let what I say take place in her own right, namely that the victimisation is falling. You can't be a victim without crime. That's tricky. If victimisation falls, it also reduces crime, although it may not fall to the same degree. Mrs Helder is right when she says that the reduction in crime that we see is the registered crime reduction. But this also applies: it is very difficult to register unregistered crime, because it has to be registered for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u65	I'm thinking very quickly if you can think of any victimless crimes, but I haven't thought of that yet. That's for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u66	Then you could be a victim without a felony. Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u67	First of all, these figures are just good news, I have already said that, although you can still discuss them. They also give room for the Council to act on a case-law basis. I asked if that space could be used to give justice some fresh air and simply to have that report by Mr Cohen carried out. I now put it as a question, but it is a question with a great urgency under it. That's my first question. Then there's my second question. The minister said that money is needed for investment. I read in last Friday's letter that these investments mean: KEI (Quality and Innovation Justice). Then the 20 million, next year 25 million, would disappear completely into the automation spotlight. Did I read that correctly, or is there room for a little bit of that $20 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u68	Let me start with the final point. In the written answer to the question put by Mr Recourt at first reading, I included the word 'co-'. So that could be KEI and other things. My answer to the second point is that the case law builds up a reserve if the PMJ estimates are not too bad. My intention is to use that reserve for justice itself. We could also skim it for other purposes, but that is not my intention. In addition, the case law has indicated that additional money is needed to improve quality. The external validation has shown that the level of the amount required is not sufficiently substantiated. The letter states that together with the case-law we are doing further research to determine what is needed. This could possibly be one of the points for the Spring Note. We look very carefully, in a responsible way, at the perceived need for justice for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u69	I have a brief follow-up question. That $20 million is "cool" for KEI. Is that even more specific? How much is it gonna take for KEI? Then what's left of it for the rest of it and where does it go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u70	The system at the Court of Justice works in such a way that it has its own budget and can make its own choices. Of course, I will discuss this with the Council, but the KEI project is so essential for the future stability of our case law that we do not wrongly give it priority. I think that Mr Recourt is also on the side of the government on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u71	It's gonna be a while before we get the Spring Note. Then we are somewhere in May, June I understand. Isn't there any way to look at that before? Surely it is extremely important for the Council of Ministers to know whether it can count on more money? And is the claim to KEI 17 million? That's the amount that makes the rounds. So the cut is only $3 million? What's that word "party" for? Could the Minister be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u72	No, I cannot be more specific about the latter than this because this discussion is still going on, as there are several discussions going on in the case-law, including about housing. The Spring Note is the Spring Note, but the PMJ estimates are coming to my firm conviction. This will enable us to have a debate at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u73	When will they be here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u74	Mr Voordewind is now asking me a question which I will answer in concrete terms in the second term. I had stuck to the observation that the PMJ estimates are expected to show a decrease, which could create additional budgetary space for the challenges that may still exist. That means, as I have said in the direction of Mr Pechtold, that a number of lines will come together in the spring of 2016. After the conclusion of a collective agreement for the police, after the drafting of the outline note for strengthening the investigation and following the publication of the opinion of the Wolfsen Commission at the end of this year, it will be clear how the allocated 138 million will be distributed. Whether that will be sufficient and whether some of it may remain that can be used for example for the National Police or the judiciary is a question. It can also lead to a claim, as I said to Mr Pechtold, which has been dealt with combatively for the purpose of resolving bottlenecks. I'll just answer a few more questions about the cover. Firstly, coverage has been found through a so-called business case of the FIOD, the Tax Office's investigation service, which strengthens the criminal approach to money laundering and corruption. That means two things. This means that a substantial investment must be made, which is covered, and that a substantial return is expected at the same time. On the basis of the business case, an additional investment will be made in the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office of EUR 20 million, which will result in additional revenue from criminal collection, up to 80 million by 2020. It may be clear that that is a rising line. Of course, it's not like you can book in on the effects from day one. Secondly, the experience of recent years shows that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigation services are increasingly and more capable of successfully detecting large cases of fraud and corruption in particular and of taking substantial amounts of criminal property, including through large settlements. On the basis of these experiences, the Cabinet considers it justified to include a separate budget item of 100 million as an estimate for the revenue from large settlements, which, as Mr Van Oosten said yesterday, will be included in the budget in a structural manner. However, it is not only criminally acquired or otherwise illegally acquired assets that are not taken away. The Tax Administration itself can also use administrative instruments in the form of recovery, tax post-tax or tax fines. In the direction of Mr Van Oosten, I would point out that it is necessary to consider on a case-by-case basis what is the most efficient, quickest and most effective means of taking away as much as possible of criminals. Time and again you have to look at the facts and circumstances to know which means is appropriate to achieve the maximum effect. This choice must always be made on substantive grounds and not on financial grounds. For this reason, it has been chosen that the Ministry of Finance is prepared to guarantee that rule of law in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to say a little bit about that. I hear the Minister say very clearly that a case-by-case study is being carried out on which authority should be used to remove from those criminals those "maximum returns" which are made by criminals by violating our laws. But the practice given to me is sometimes a different one. I am told that the Tax Administration, the tax route, can sometimes be much faster. At the moment when the coverage proposals are put in place as a yield from the Public Prosecutor's Office or the FIOD, it could be that these organisations should reach the target, while a municipal service or the Tax Administration could have been much more effective and faster. So I would like to be assured that this can be done through these authorities and not necessarily through the Public Prosecutor's Office or the FIOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u76	That is, of course, essential. What I heard Mr van Oosten say in his first term is also the meaning of what I just said: the purpose, namely to take money, is sacred. How that goes is irrelevant; as long as it happens. In the light of the experience of criminally deprived persons, the choice was then made for an additional investment in the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD, which provides support to the Public Prosecutor. That criminal part justifies dealing with it this way. However, it must never be the case that there is another incentive in the sense of: well, then we will do so; that may take longer, but that will help the budget. I agree with Mr Van Oosten that this cannot be the case. I shall come back to the question he raised about the budgetary fund idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u77	Do you have a supplementary question, Mr Van Oosten?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u78	My question is actually about another issue. The minister was just talking about settlements and the deal he made with Finance. I understand that later today we are going to talk about the undermining fund and the issue I was just talking about. So I can ask the Minister about that. When it comes to settlement in relation to fines, I have been budgeting more stable, but also in the context of the substantive discussion on the justice of, for example, the level of fines, why in the longer term we are not going to move away from the revenue from fines to finance and to keep the substantive discussion with V and J. The Minister refers in his replies to an ibo, but I would have liked to have seen a more positive attitude from him. I would have liked to have heard from him that he could support the idea behind my question and that we should want to move towards it in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u79	I understand that Mr Van Oosten is asking for this. I can go a little bit less linguistically than he would like, but I do understand the thought behind his question. That is why we have asked for an inter-departmental budget review on this point. We also see that the effect of fines has been increasing in recent years and that revenue is therefore decreasing. The latter is in itself positive, not only for me, but also for the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. So I understand the thinking behind Mr Van Oosten's question, but I am really waiting for the ibo before I make any conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u80	Still, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u81	We're actually doing it in two, but I understand you've saved up everything to ask a question in threes now. That is why I am giving you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u82	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I thought I'd touched on another subject. I hear the minister say he's waiting for that investigation. I understand that, because of course he has to. He can, however, be a little more firm in saying that he can see in himself, in line with the deal he has now made with Finance on settlements, advantages in accommodating the revenue from fines at Finance, so that the substantive discussion on justice and the level of fines with the Minister of Security and Justice can be conducted without any consideration being given to the need to achieve the budget of V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u83	I think it is wise to say that the latter is not the case and that it should not be. However, I do not think that Mr van Oosten understands that we should give our thoughts here on the budgetary system à l'improviste without having discussed it with my colleague in the Finance Committee on the occasion of the ibo coming out in the spring. I was working on the cover. The third part is the 100 million available as a result of a reduction in rental prices resulting from a recalculation of these rental prices. As many members know, the Ministry of Security and Justice is one of the major tenants of state real estate, thanks in particular to the prison system which operates under the responsibility of the Secretary of State. Thus, if there is a reduction in rental prices, in this case due to the lower interest rate which also reduces the financing costs, then the Ministry has a correspondingly greater advantage. That advantage has been taken into account and involved in the improvement of the budget. Fourthly, the department itself makes a contribution of 15 million by improving cooperation within the management of the entire ministry. This could include joint and even more joint procurement of ICT licences with as many parts of the Ministry as possible, including the implementation organisations. This is just one of the examples that has been taken into consideration. Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren has already pointed out a contribution of 50 million per year from other departments. As I have already said, the distribution of this will take place in the spring note. I've already discussed that reservation extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u84	For that financial sum, the cabinet asks the Chamber to have confidence. However, I would like to hear a little more from the Minister, in particular about the point made by Mrs Van Tongeren about the 50 million from other departments. Are departments such as Defence and Education excluded from this, because the Chamber might say that it thinks it is less sensible to take money away from it? I'd like to know a little bit more about that. If we continue to conjecture, then the Chamber will soon be able to deal with other budgets as well. We are going to deal with a few more budgets. We are going to include 50 million more in the budget and then we will see it in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u85	We will not vote on all the budgets until next week, because we wanted to keep that opportunity open for the Chamber until the end. In this sense, there is a level playing field. However, I understand your question; of course you can ask it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr Pechtold's question is, of course, justified. As I have already said, the 50 million will be spent on the spring note. At that time, the debate will take place and the wishes of the Chamber can be presented or, where necessary, explained. Now there's the deal that the cabinet takes care of the 50 million. The distribution will eventually be discussed in the spring paper. I can't say any more about that, because that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u87	I get that. I'm also glad the chairman's thinking about it. In dealing with other budgets, it is complicated when there is a virtual claim over a budget that we do not know where it will fall. Let me try to get some air into the discussion. Last Friday, the cabinet had to seek that money together with a curse and a sigh, for which it once again paid tribute. Could it be that when we discuss the spring note we should discuss again whether this cover, which was just as much needed for accounting, might be at the expense of the other departments, and that we should have a different coverage by then? Again, it seems a little crazy if we let the Defense Department or other departments pay for it now. Does the Minister's combatability go so far that we try to get the temporary cover away from colleagues and look for other money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u88	I find it difficult to answer that, because it is not only up to me, but also to others. The 50 million promised by the cabinet underlines that the cabinet considers the investment in Security and Justice necessary, which was one of Mr Pechtold's questions and is also willing to contribute to this. I would particularly like to stick to that positive part. I'm going to the justice section. In my introduction, I said that independent justice is an essential part of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mr Van Oosten has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u90	Yeah, about the finance block. I'm looking at you very carefully, Mr. Chairman, but I see you're allowed to do it. In the context of the financial block, I asked the Minister yesterday about the findings of the Court of Auditors. It sent a letter to the Chamber at the end of October or the beginning of November in which it noted that there was a further significant inefficient outflow, leading to legal inequality, statute of limitations and the like. The bottom line is that sometimes the police's work doesn't fit in with the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's inefficient. What efficiency gains can still be achieved there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u91	There is a huge efficiency gain to be achieved, by connecting the ICT systems of the various organisations and by the extent to which one is in control of what is happening. The Court of Auditors rightly addressed this issue a number of years ago. This is then included in the Enhanced Performance Criminal Chain (VPS) programme. That is work in progress; Mr Van Oosten is quite right there. Major steps are being taken and we are on track, but we are far from there. That has to be done, because every failure is too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u92	That's what I was looking for yesterday. What can we agree with the Minister on how the Chamber can be specifically reported on this point? I regret that we have been told by the Court of Auditors over and over again that the inefficiency is still there and that nothing seems to have happened. Could the Minister undertake to send a separate letter to the Chamber at any time, stating what was actually done with the recommendation of the Court of Auditors, rather than putting this point aside in the December 2015 progress report, which also raises many other issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u93	That's what we agreed. We agreed to report on this in the progress report on the VPS. I just want to keep doing that, and we do that with great regularity. I don't know the frequency from my head, but we do it with great regularity. I also welcome the fact that the Court of Auditors is doing this. The Court of Auditors shall be an independent body. Within my department, I have the Inspectorate for Security and Justice as an independent body. These are bodies that I attach great importance to, because I really think it is important, and it also needs to be sent to the organisation, that always on an independent basis research is done into the question: do we deliver what we want to deliver, do we have what we need and can we respond to what we need to do? I am very pleased with the Court of Auditors on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u94	I also mentioned this as one of the points of criticism in my first term. It is not about the progress report; it is about benchmarks. Then you know if the progress is a bit upset. The objectives are simply not formulated. All that has come out of the general consultation on criminal matters is that the Minister has said that 90% of the cases dealt with in court will be dealt with within the time limit. However, the criminal justice chain is also about what the police deliver to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which the Public Prosecutor returns to the police and what the Public Prosecutor can forward to the court. That's three gauges. The Minister must set out objectives and then the Chamber can monitor the Minister in the progress reports. So the question, which I also asked in the first term, is: is the Minister going to set benchmarks and set targets?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u95	The answer given in writing is yes. However, this is what I do in the spring. I also indicated this in the written answer to Mrs Helder's question. And let's be real; the status is now that more than 90%...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u96	96%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u97	... that 96% will be eliminated within the prescribed period. Then we may wish it to be 100%, but then we did make a huge blow. I also think that we should want that, because 100% is always better than 96%. There is also a second element, I say to Mrs Helder. Thanks to the introduction of the control towers in the courts, which is a collaboration between the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office, cases are sent back to the police because they are not complete. I think that is a huge gain, because those same things would otherwise have led to a hearing with a lot of capacity loss. They're being sent back now, but we also know they're being sent back. That's a win again. To the fact that they're being sent back, we can send them. Then I'll come back in the spring. I had stayed with my opening line on the justice section. I will repeat that opening sentence, because I think it is very important: independent justice is an essential part of our rule of law. Many Members have asked questions about its financing. In the Multi-Year Plan of the Court of Justice, the caselaw laid down all the wishes and choices for the future. Firstly, it concerns the financial translation of the policy which the Council wishes to pursue before the Court of Justice. In addition, it concerns the location policy that the board and the governors of the courts advocate. I think it is very good that, for the sake of justice, the Council, together with the Presidents, is considering a multiannual plan. That is not only his competence, but also his job. I shall be the first to comment on the location policy, because many concerns have been expressed by the Chamber. With regard to the distribution of court cases between the sites, the Court shall adopt a regulation laying down, for each seat, the categories of cases for which hearings are held in that seat. These rules of division of the case, adopted by the judicial board, require the agreement of the Board. The consent may be withheld only on grounds of conflict with the law or the public interest, for example the interest of the court in the proper conduct of its business. It is also laid down by law. A decision of the Board referred to in Article 21a, first paragraph of the RO Act, may be annulled on my proposal by Royal Decree for breach of the law or the public interest. The distribution of responsibility with regard to housing is similar. The judicial board decides, the board supports and supervises, and I have a general designation authority insofar as this is necessary for the proper conduct of the judicial organisation. I have already promised the Chamber that I would be able to use this power of designation if necessary, but I assume that will not be necessary in this particular case. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u98	I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's first sentence: it is good that there is independent judicial redress. But now I'm looking at yesterday, at the trial where the choice was made between "life-snake is life-long" and "a convicted suspect must always have a perspective on freedom, so life can't go on anymore." I am very curious to see what vision the Minister chooses. This is not an organisational question, but rather a question of fact. Did the judge sit on the seat of politics with this? I'd like to know the Minister's vision. Does he think that life is lifelong, or does he think that every convicted person should have a view of freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u99	May I suggest that Mr Bontes put this question to the Secretary of State later? He bears the responsibility for this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u100	I'd like to do that, but I think it's weird, because this really seems like something on the Minister's plate. But I'd be happy to ask the Secretary of State if that's easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u101	I will not answer questions about the refugee problem, nor will I answer this particular point, which is in the Secretary of State's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u102	That's a special division. Anyway, I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u103	You'll get back to me when the Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u104	We have a very special division of tasks since the refugee problem. I've taken over a large number of duties from the Secretary of State. Mr Bontes can ask me questions on almost all of the subjects, but this is just before the Secretary of State. I have explained how the distribution of powers is regulated in relation to housing. Let me say first of all that no one in the Chamber really expects me to finance the Council's emptiness, so I am pleased to have heard in the first term. I therefore have broad support for this approach in the Chamber. The Court of Justice should devote all its money as much as possible to improving the quality of justice and the capacity it needs. In addition, it is not appropriate for them to pay rent to the National Real Estate Company for empty offices or empty corridors, as I heard one of the spokesmen say yesterday. I therefore have broad support for this in the Chamber. The emptiness of the case-law itself is not insignificant. There is already a 100,000 m surplus in housing set against the standards applicable to justice. It is expected that after the introduction of KEI, which is planned for the middle of next year, this will increase to more than 130,000 m. The modernisation and digitisation of justice creates a very different need for housing. The case law has indicated that it cannot and does not want to finance it and then asked how we should resolve it. Justice has decided to concentrate people. Many Members of Parliament asked yesterday how this housing plan meets the quality improvement that we want to achieve with each other. When you put people together, the cooperation between professionals improves. Then there is also specialization possible. This also improves the quality of justice. Those two elements "do not want to finance vacancy plus quality improvement and achieving efficiency gains' were the reason for the Council's case-law to come up with a housing plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u105	It's kind of weird to introduce flexwork at the same time. If you think it's gonna get better if you put people together, you're gonna have to drop flex spots. This means that we can work in the place that suits us best. But that's not my question. Two things have been put together. We have this huge number of square meters that is likely to be empty. We all agree that this problem needs to be removed. In addition, we have the question of how justice can improve quality and invest in it. That is now being taken into account in one package. My proposal is to take that apart. The case law itself is primarily based on quality. According to them, the square meters they don't need can go. However, they want to think carefully about how they themselves can improve the quality, also because this follows a recent reorganisation. That doesn't have to wait until 2019, that's what even the union for judges says, but they just need a little time to do that. Can we cut it up and give them that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u106	There is a third important element, which Mr Recourt also mentioned, namely access to justice. That's the force field we're talking about. On the one hand, there is enormous vacancy. That costs a lot and that is a waste of money, because it can be spent differently. On the other hand, we have the possibility of improving the quality that the case law itself identifies. On the third side, it is essential that access to justice is guaranteed. The low-threshold cases, the things that are most common, must be carried out as close to people as possible. That last part is, of course, guaranteed, also in the proposal which was put forward and which, to a certain extent, is still there. The case law itself has said that all common cases that affect people take place in the 32 legally established premises. That wasn't a discussion. Access to justice was thus guaranteed. In the Slob/Samsom motion, the government was asked to look again at housing. The Council has already made an enormous effort to this end in the field of justice. That process has not yet come to fruition. I have just outlined the division of responsibility. I am not the one who has the executive power in this, but within my responsibility and my system responsibility, my commitment is to address this issue, bearing in mind the motion and the questions that Mr Recourt is now asking, together with the case law and the local administration. That is also what I stated in the written reply and promised. I will take the initiative to get both parties to table. Then we can see how we can bring together the three elements, i.e. the non-financing of emptiness, the quality of justice and justice close to the people, into a plan that is supported by justice and local government. There will undoubtedly be a need for concessions from both sides. Maybe financial concessions are also needed for my part. Let us at least do this. I can't do that today, but I'm gonna work on that. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u107	I welcome this space and the commitments, but I still feel a small 'but'. The Minister has just said: let us sweep everything together and solve these three elements in one piece. That's a bit tricky, because as far as I'm concerned it's a little impure. On the one hand, the problem of square meters has to be solved. Everyone agrees on that. On the other hand, quality needs to be looked at. Those cases have different tempos. The problem with square meters just needs to be solved quickly. We should not wait for that to happen, but we should literally put meters into it. The quality of justice, on the other hand, may require a little more time. How do these trajectories fit together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u108	That's right. I have just said something about the quality of justice. One of the points is that the Council of Justice says that it still needs money for investment in quality. I have had this validated, and it shows that there is insufficient justification for making a link between the amount and the commitment required. That's what I want you to find out. So that's what we're gonna talk about. That is what we are going to do, and that will be a long-term journey. Mr Recourt says: 'I have heard him correctly 'that the problem with the empty meters must be solved as quickly as possible. I would point out to him that I do have a rather serious problem with the local government, because this would mean two things. Either the Judicial Council has to leave those meters and fill them out elsewhere or other tenants are being searched for who can take the meters in a responsible manner. This is now done in good consultation with the case-law, but that is not easy because the case-law will not find a number of tenants appropriate to the case-law; and rightly so. It's really a complicated process. That is why I am unable to provide any solutions at this time, but I have listened very carefully to the concerns in the Chamber. I will therefore take it with me in the conversations I will initiate. My job is to initiate discussions between local government and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u109	Like the PvdA, I want to take the two files apart. I think that talking about housing is quite different from talking about the quality of justice. Both this has to do with finances, and because there is a shortage of money, I feel that the Chamber cannot immediately direct what is now one or the other. That is why I would like a commitment. I want the Minister to say that the part about the vacant areas and how we are all going to spread them regionally is the first dossier. The second file is quality. Well, that's a well-founded one, isn't it? The Minister himself refers to that. He says he's had a validation run. It is clear that there are already quality standards. It's already been decided how many judges you work on a file and all that kind of stuff. It is said that we cannot do it now because there is not enough money. So we are not solving this today, but I think we can break it up today. There are two problems. The first is housing. The second is quality. Then, in particular, we can see much better what the problem is at that last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u110	Actually, I'm gonna get into this. The validation was negative in terms of underpinning the quality impulse. So there's no agreement on that, but it's going to happen. We're just gonna work on that. That's what I promised. That's what I'm supposed to do. If extra money is needed for this, you include that part in the PMJ estimates with the 138 million reserve that might be left over. Now I come to housing. I understand the thought of separating those two things. But no matter how you turn it, the less you spend on housing, the more you can spend on something else. That is structural money for justice. So the whole thing can't go away either, because justice makes its own investments. If justice is left with money because he can reduce freestanding meters, he can invest that money elsewhere. I am trying to find out exactly what Mr Pechtold means, because one leads to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u111	Let me make it very easy. You can't say to a school: if you make sure you close a few of your premises that you no longer use, then maybe we can talk about the teachers' salary, the quality of the courses or the purchase of a digi board. What I want is for the Minister to make the spring note clear to us. We both want to solve it, but I find the incentive perverse to say: make sure you lower your gauges and then you can use the proceeds of it to... Of course it has to do with each other, but I want to be able to see it separately, because this stuff about quality takes me too long; it is too obvious that standards are not being met. The Minister can still "dimming" with the judges about what it is exactly, but we all know that it is a financial and therefore a quality problem. So please take the commitment to separate it and put it separately towards Spring paper, otherwise I'll make a motion. Of course, the financial flow is related but not as a perverse incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u112	But I understand Mr Pechtold well. It's exactly what I mean: one doesn't depend on the other. It cannot be that if the discussion on housing is not resolved, it does not lead to agreement on quality improvement. Then I have not said it correctly before, so I am glad that Mr Pechtold is helping me to make that clear. My commitment is concrete. We are discussing this aspect of improving the quality of housing, regardless of what happens to housing, but the solution to the problem of housing can contribute to financing. The same applies to the PMJ estimates. They will undoubtedly be able to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u113	It is rather complex, because the President-in-Office of the Council has said before the Court of Justice: if I do not get any money, then I am going to dismantle those courts. We can talk about it long and wide with Commissioners of the King, ministers and mayors, but we're not gonna get out of it. The Minister said that he would make 20 million available to the courts and that he would have to do everything in his power to do with it. But what are we talking about? I understand from the Minister that this amount will go to KEI. Other parties also want to raise the professional standard of justice. Most parties want to keep the courts open. So how are we gonna split up the 20 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u114	I listen to it so that almost all parties say you shouldn't finance empty positions, but you should keep those courtrooms open. I think that's a very important part. That's what I understand from the mayors. Mayors say that these premises with the staff play a very important role. We will have to find a balance in this. I would be pleased if Mr Oskam would also say that it is not possible for justice to use part of the budget to finance vacant offices. That cannot and will not be the responsibility of the CDA. That does not mean, however, that you are taking the kind of measures as mentioned. I want to find a balance in this and I would like Mr Oskam to say the same. On the second element, Mr Oskam says the same thing as Mr Pechtold, namely that quality must be ensured. I have made that suggestion quite clear in the letter and we shall come back to it in the spring as a result of the discussion with the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u115	In reply to Mr Pechtold's questions and comments, you have already addressed them in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u116	The Slob/Samsom motion states that the Minister should take more time and conduct the process carefully. We have had a hearing, which shows that there is a lot of creativity in the field. If you have to cut back, creativity always comes out. The governor in Limburg has said that he wants to buy the property to rent it to the court for less, so that one can just sit. The mayor of Alkmaar has asked to refer all administrative matters to him and to deal with criminal matters in Haarlem. This way, tailor-made work can be delivered in the region. The NVvR has asked for a year to resolve it with each other. But that year costs money; is the Minister prepared to make extra money available for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u117	No, because you don't have to. It is not until spring that I know what money is needed for justice because of the PMJ estimates and housing problems. However, I have already promised in writing that I will take the initiative in these talks along the lines outlined by Mr Oskam. I am very curious to see what will come out of these suggestions in concrete terms. I've called in a lot of mayors. Who knows, we will come to a solution very quickly. The sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u118	In fact, I have in my hand a letter of fire to the Chamber of Seven Mayors. Of course, they express their concerns about access to justice, but there is more in the letter. They call on the Chamber to call on the Minister for a more flexible housing policy, a more flexible state property policy. What room can the Minister offer in that? How does he take into account the shifts in other state services in the regions and the interests these mayors point out in his talks with the Council for Justice and with local government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u119	I'm not the Minister for Housing and National Service. Mr Van Oosten will understand that as well. So I cannot answer that question in a very specific way, because I am not dealing with the government real estate policy. However, it is essential to mention that I am consulting with my colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst on this subject, also in the light of national policy and the question of how the free-standing real estate can be filled in as carefully as possible in order to achieve the objective. Those consultation structures are there. At the same time, I hope that we will be able to find an inventive solution together with the Judicial Council and the local administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u120	Then I will translate it in such a way that at least there is good and thorough attention to it in the talks at the Ministry. In addition, I have another question. With the mayors, the presidents of the courts and people from the regions affected, there seems to be some sort of fear, because they do not want their court to become a b-location. People want to feel that the man on the street can go to court for every case. These may be things that can affect someone, such as divorce or a neighbour's dispute, but also matters that have a particular local impact and affect society, such as serious criminal cases. What scope can the Minister offer in this respect to organise and allow these special matters, if necessary, in all these seats on an ad hoc basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u121	I think it's a very good point. If there has been a serious criminal case in a particular city, you also want to conduct that case clearly and visibly in that city and the conviction must also take place near the place where the offence was committed. This is also in the interest of society's sense of justice. One of the challenges in this respect is that the austerity that the housing plan brings with it also concerns detention facilities, which are very costly. Mr Van Oosten's idea of centering it will be discussed with the courts, which, thinking out-of-the-box, will have to come up with solutions for that detention facility. It's gotta be possible. But that will bring with it a consequence that I cannot yet see. I understand the thinking, but it will mean that we have to have new ideas about how we deal with prisoners. In many cases it will be about prisoners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u122	I hear the Minister say that we need to invest in the quality of justice. The Court states that it would like to organise the case law close to home and keep the case packages in those seven courts. The NVvR has offered a petition to the Lower House in which it says: ask the Minister to give us extra time to organize that well. The Minister himself came up with a number of creative solutions, as did my colleagues. The Minister will still be talking, but I find it difficult for him to say: I want to talk, but the money remains the same, while the NVvR clearly indicates that he really needs a little more space and therefore possibly a little more finance to get the time and space to organise justice close to home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u123	For the record, Mrs Kooiman now pretends that the NVvR would be the same as the Council of Justice. That is not the case. The NVvR is actually the union of judges and prosecutors. They have no financial responsibility for the case-law, but the Council of Justice does have financial responsibility for the case-law. There is the Slob/Samsom motion on the case-law Council, which says: take the time to come to a carefully considered plan. That's what I said we're gonna do. In addition, I am testing very clearly with a majority of your Chamber: do not let justice spend money on vacant offices, make sure you do so wisely and in consultation with local authority. Secondly, there is the quality element. Of this, I do not think Mrs Kooiman fully understood what I said both in the written reply and in the oral reply. That's what the conversation's about. That conversation leads to a conclusion in the spring. So that brings me to all of Mrs Kooiman's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u124	The minister's acting like I'm crazy Henkie, but let me explain to him what I mean. The Court of Justice itself states that it will not be able to maintain quality by 20 million and to keep those seven courts open in the courtyards. Indeed, I am very much in favour of the trade union coming along here and indeed I would like to express what it says here, but the NVVR also says that it needs a little more financial space than the 20 million in order to keep justice close to home. I ask this Minister not to enter into the talks in a rigid manner, but to see what is needed, including financially, and not to say in advance that the stock exchange will remain closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u125	With all due respect, I know Mrs. Kooiman well and for a long time. But what she is now presenting about what I would have said is not at all what I said. I have made very clear statements to Mr Pechtold, Mr Oskam and Mr Recourt. It is all very well in the letter which actions are being taken and how justice is being handled carefully. The PMJ estimates are important here, as are housing. It seems as if Mrs Kooiman has not heard all these points. I've said exactly how it's going, in all due care. Spring is an important element in this. Moreover, I am extremely pleased with the very constructive attitude of the NVvR, which enabled me to reach an excellent collective agreement with her every day after the conclusion of an agreement for the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u126	If the Minister had listened to the noises in the Chamber, to the NVvR and to the Court of Justice, then he should also know that with 20 million the case is not finished. Then there will also have to be additional finances. I'm tired of this rigid attitude of this minister. He could say he's gonna have conversations, but he's gonna do that with a closed scholarship. That's not how we work here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u127	Opposition is beautiful, and I myself am very much in favour of it. I did it myself for four years. I like that a lot. But I have explained in detail to Mr Pechtold how the fair can be opened in spring on the basis of facts. Then Mrs Kooiman says: the Minister keeps the grant closed. It's just not true what Mrs. Kooiman says. It is quite clear what I promised in the Chamber. That is also in the letters, it is in the reply, it is clearly written in everything. It just doesn't come to Mrs. Kooiman. That is a pity, because it makes me a reproach that is not justified. I regret that, because I want to deal with the importance of justice very carefully. I have said for a reason that independent justice, including, of course, with proper funding, is of great importance to our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u128	We are dealing here with an outrage, because the Minister states that he has been an opposition member for the past four years, while he...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u129	No, for four years as a city councilman in Warmond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u130	Oh, in the city. I had just understood that the Minister had opposed the Chamber. That had escaped me a little bit! It's getting clearer and clearer to me. The Slob motion deals with a number of aspects: housing, finance, the 20 million that my colleague spoke about, but also the substantive package of the courts. Of course, this was also mentioned in the multiannual plan. On page 35 there is a kind of emergency scenario: what would you think if there is a need to cut costs? The Slob motion also stated that there is a need to talk about alternatives. On the other two points, we have heard enough from the Minister, but what about the substantive tasks of the courts in the discussions that the Minister has had?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u131	So that's exactly the point. The ball, of course, lies primarily in the case law itself. I've just explained that division of responsibility. That's how we regulated it legally. My commitment just now was to initiate the conversation and sit down with it. I am going to talk to the people to come up with a responsible package, which does justice to the following three elements: no vacancy, a quality impulse and 'right close to the citizen'. I also see the implementation of the Slob/Samsom motion. That's how I interpreted her. I would also point out the following in connection with Mrs Kooiman's comment on the 20 million. Of course, it's 20 million in 2016 and 25 million in 2017 and beyond. That's how we get the facts straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u132	Let's go over the bulkheads. The Minister himself also says that he cannot quite define it, because it has one to do with the other. That, of course, also has to do with the task package. It is not for nothing that the Council has created emergency scenarios for the case-law for the moment that it has to cut back. The task implementation will thus also depend on the 20 to 25 million. The Minister has requested a second opinion. It showed that KEI would need 17 million. The second opinion also showed that a minimum of 15 million would be needed to strengthen the Council. It will therefore also depend on the money that may be added to the task. Do I understand the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u133	I think we understand each other. Something's coming up; I'm gonna make it even harder. The multiannual Council for Justice is actually a proposal for negotiating the estimates, i.e. the PxQ discussion, for 2017 and beyond. So I'm just gonna make it a little more complicated. Until 2016, there are agreements on the rates that the case-law gets times the number of work done. 2017 and further negotiations are under way. The story is therefore a little more complicated than we have already done, because the outcome of these negotiations will also determine what the future coverage will be for the Council of Justice. In that respect, things are taking hold just at an unfortunate moment. This is really a hinge year in that respect. I would therefore like to add that element as a complicated element.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u134	Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u135	Well, we did it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u136	The colleagues were also allowed a small conclusion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mrs Kooiman was addressed very, very directly several times, so I gave her the opportunity. So it's not gonna be the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u138	No, I understand that, Mr. Chairman. Then I have one last sentence. The second opinion led to the 15 million. So that 15 million is a claim that lies before the Council. The Minister says he's going to talk about that, but we're discussing the budget now. So I would like to be more clear about whether there will indeed be more money in the future. I don't need to hear any money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u139	I cannot therefore undertake to do so; I have just explained this in detail. We have the PMJ estimates, we have the housing discussion and we have the price negotiations. See those price negotiations in 2017. The claim of the Court of Justice also looks at 2017 and beyond. In the price negotiations it can therefore be concluded that this is already fully covered in the light of the PMJ estimates. Of course, that's what makes it so complicated. I understand very well what Mr Voordewind is asking for. I also understand why he's asking. I said what I said about that. If there are bottlenecks and they could be there, then we will see if they can still come out of the '38', depending on the Wolfsen Commission, depending on the collective agreement for the police and depending on the contour note. If this is not the case, my fighting skills for spring have been invoked by the Spring Note. I have said this clearly in the direction of Mr Pechtold and Mr Oskam and I am now telling Mr Voordewind. It is good that the Chamber realizes that the price negotiations for 2017 and beyond are taking place and that everything we say about this can have consequences for that. I listened to the Chamber very carefully and I know how she feels about that. As far as the case law and the improvement of quality are concerned, I have asked the external experts to accompany us further in this project. I'm gonna join the police. For 2016, I have two priorities for the National Police. This was asked for in the first term. Apart from all current cases, there are two things that really need to be ready in 2016. Of course, that's the collective agreement for the National Police. In fact, I hope it will be taken before 2016. The second priority is to complete the reorganisation of the workforce. The good news there is that two weeks earlier than expected the preliminary job descriptions can be sent to all employees. This means that hopefully we can reach a final placement of all employees sooner than expected, in the spring. In addition, Mr Pechtold has asked for this to be done in order to ensure that the contour note for the strengthening of the investigation is fully developed, including the financial paragraph, for which the reservation is foreseen. Last Monday I informed the Chamber about the progress of the formation of the National Police. Following the re-examination paper of 31 August and the debate we held on this subject, steps have been taken forward, particularly with regard to the reorganisation of staff. The intention is that, by completing the staff reorganisation, together with the chief of police, I can meet the legal standard of one district agent out of 5,000 residents. It is understandable that there are widespread concerns about this. We have already shared this in many debates and seen it in several motions. It is perhaps a good thing that I should like to emphasise that the area-based police is one of the great achievements of the National Police. It is perhaps too early to say now that this area-based police care is one of the possible explanations for the fact that we seem to be confronted. I say it very carefully with a slightly different intensity of terrorist threat than in Belgium and France. Our neighborhood agents also walk in the neighborhoods we're worried about just on the street, are in contact with the people and the surroundings and can also perform their job perfectly. I have had a lot of discussions with Mr Oskam, but also with Mr Van der Staaij, about what exactly it means that it has not yet been completed. I have explained several times that this is mainly due to agreements with the trade unions and participation in the framework of the reorganisation of the workforce. I have good hope that, as a result of this acceleration in the reorganization of staff, we will be able to meet the desired composition sooner than expected. Before Mr Oskam asks me another question, it is perhaps a good thing that I should mention that my responsibility lies at the level of unity and that the distribution of district agents at the municipal level is a matter of local authority. It's not my call. Those are appointments that mayors make with each other and with the mayor of the region and the chief officer. Thus, if mayors have complaints about the number of district agents in their own municipalities, then the complaint counter of the fellow mayor and the regional mayor has been opened, not the minister's complaint counter. My responsibility is that within the formation plan 1 in 5,000 is available. 96% of that is. The next 4% comes after the end of the staff reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u140	A nice answer and this morning we also received a nice answer to the written questions, but one part is missing. That's what's bothering us. The neighborhood cops and the mayors, they say that the district cops do things other than being a district cop. I asked a question about that yesterday and I did not receive an answer. I want to know from the minister how we're gonna make sure those district agents are really in the neighborhood and they're doing what they've been appointed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u141	That really is a discussion that takes place with local authority at local level. I'm not talking about the job concept and task assignment of an individual district agent in an individual neighborhood. That really is a discussion that takes place in the municipal councils. Something's been found there. The mayors can discuss it with each other together with the chief officer and the mayor of the region. That's the gremium where the task of district agents takes place. It's my responsibility for them to be there. That is the case for 96%. For 4% not yet, but they will be added in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u142	I would like to get the Minister's promise that he will discuss with the "great mayors" that this will be taken into account and that we will stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u143	I can make that commitment. In the next National Consultation on Security and Police, as the Article 19 consultation is now called, I will convey to the regional mayors the concerns of Mr Oskam and Mr Van der Staaij. Once that has been done, I will send confirmation to the Chamber. I'm gonna tell my Director-General of Police this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u144	Let's talk about the 1:5,000 standard. I come back to this a little stubbornly, because we were hoping that accepting the amendment would put an end to the division of agents within regions. Does the Minister agree with us that it is the intention of the law that municipalities should not be able to control the number of district agents among themselves? The legal standard is 1:5,000. As a municipality, you're entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u145	Yes and no. The law says it applies at a unitary level. That's also the only way I can steer. The law explicitly states that the implementation of the task of individual police officers should be left to the local authority. I really think that Mr Van der Staaij should want to do the same. We have an order in which we place as much responsibility as possible with local authority. It must not be the case that as a minister I can say: local authority, I do not like this, I put that agent there. That really can't be the intention. It is true that I am responsible at the level of unity. At that point, I haven't fulfilled my mission, because I need 100%, but I have 96%. It is really up to the local authority to have this discussion. Mr Van der Staaij's and Mr Oskam's concerns are, of course, in favour of the respective mayors. That's how we're supposed to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u146	A backrest? I'd say it's meant to be legal support. It must therefore not lead to any talk about how we are going to distribute the district agents for a very large region in real terms across that region. It starts with what Article 38a says: there is at least one district agent working per 5,000 inhabitants. That's what it starts with. That's the basics. Then you can discuss the question of what is to come up with a solution. This shouldn't really be a discussion and twitching thing, should it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u147	As far as I'm concerned, there aren't any. I'll take care of one district cop out of 5,000 residents for the unit. That's my job done. I would like to turn it around: does Mr Van der Staaij find it difficult for a mayor to say, for reasons beyond his control, "I would like to use those two neighborhood agents in neighborhoods that are not really concerned, temporarily to solve the problem in another neighborhood"? I don't have a problem with that. In fact, I think it is a very sensible policy. It is also exactly what we want, because we want the discussion to be held at the place where it should be: in the city council with the mayor and the local triangle. If there are problems at municipal level, we can scale up to the mayors and the mayor of the region. That's what the law really means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u148	Mr Van der Staaij, you must of course answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u149	Also the district agent is defined, namely as a police officer who, related to the number of residents, is available for a municipality for the police task. So it's not just about the article I just mentioned. My second question would be: can it not be the intention that pressure be put on a municipality by other municipalities that say "there is not so much going on with you and in the region those people are actually more needed"? This would, for example, allow district agents to be withdrawn from the rural area in order to tackle the problems in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u150	Given the developments in the rural area, for example the rise in crime on agricultural holdings, that seems to me to be a very unfortunate choice. If I were to take responsibility for that, I wouldn't want to make that choice. Mr Van der Staaij and I share that concern, but at the same time I would like to maintain the principle that responsibility should lie with local authority, because it is best to make that assessment there. I can't and I don't want to make that assessment at municipal level. Neither is my job. It's my job to make sure those neighborhood agents are there. How they are then deployed is on the local triangle. I know from Mr Van der Staaij that this is the subject of discussion, but then we have to turn to the complaints desk of fellow mayors, regional mayor and senior officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u151	It is quite right for Mr Van der Staaij to make this point, but it is not just the local triangle. At the moment, district agents are also being pulled out of their neighbourhoods to be used for national priorities. These are legitimate priorities, because they concern the issue of refugees and terrorism. The moment this kind of thing is on the agenda, it's important that those cops can do what they're good at and that's working in the neighborhood. These national priorities therefore create a tight working environment. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u152	I recognise the image of Mrs Kooiman that, in principle, crunched on the work floor can arise as a result of national priorities. Moreover, I believe that the problem of refugees is not only a national but also a very local priority. When people are taken care of, you also need to ensure safety. That has nothing to do with the national level, because that is purely a local matter. These considerations need to be made locally. As indicated in the letter, the entire refugee element and its possible financial consequences will be widely shared with the Chamber in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u153	That's very important, because right now, district agents can't do what they're very good at. We all want them to do that job in the neighborhood. It is not just about the problem of refugees, but also about terrorism. For example, I understand that five platons of ME are always held in hand, and for that too, district agents need to be released. That's why they often run double shifts. Is the Minister prepared to say that he will take this point, because that is also a national priority that ends up in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u154	Especially after the attacks in Paris, I have a different picture of the use of the district agents. In many areas there has been extra effort by the district agents. Furthermore, after these horrible attacks, it was precisely to invest in their neighborhood-oriented activities to keep in touch with society. So I have a different picture from Mrs Kooiman, but I do agree with her that it is a huge challenge for the National Police to fulfil this additional task. By the way, that is also stated in the letter and I am not going to change it. It is also a subject on which I said in the debate on Paris that I will discuss it with the regional mayors. It goes without saying that they are also concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u155	Mr Oskam, the second time on this same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u156	It's not about the same point, but it's about the detectives. It is actually a kind of extra oral question on Thursday, an extra Question Time. Some people watched PSV last night, I took a look at the Secretary of State, and other people looked at ZEMBLA. My group is shocked that a lot of detective capacity is being lost from overtipping bank data. We followed an urgent procedure to get the report. That is on the way; we know about it coming now. But before the Minister is done with this, I would like to ask him how he is assessing it and whether there is any possibility of starting a bank register now to prevent banks from sending detectives every time with a rug.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u157	I have to be careful not to go into this too much. I did not look at PSV yesterday, nor did I look at ZEMBLA, because I was answering questions from the Chamber. I know the report's coming up. I know there's a letter coming through the e-mail. I don't know if it's there yet. Yeah, almost. It'll be here in a few minutes. Maybe they're waiting for me to say it's okay, but I haven't seen the letter yet. So that's another challenge. If you suspend the meeting at any time, I can arrange it and you will receive the letter. Very broadly, my view is that there have certainly been problems with the systems in the run-up, but that they have all actually been solved. From the reports I have received, I have noted that we have to look at the concern that has been expressed as to whether the pick-up legislation is functioning adequately in all areas. I am, of course, prepared to do so. If something is essential, then it is that the picking-they legislation operates efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u158	I understand there will be another letter in the course of the day. Perhaps you could answer Mr Bontes' next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u159	I'll come back to the point of the police combined with terror. By the way, that's gonna cost a lot of capacity, including for the police. I don't know if the Minister will take that into account. Policemen and the ACP need the police to be more heavily armed at crucial posts such as Jewish institutions, shopping centres and busy stations, for example with a gun gun gun gun. Also, the Marechaussee, who is standing at the door with a gun, would like a gun machine gun with an object like the House of Representatives. Will the Minister respond to the appeal of the ACP and to my request that the police and the military police be more heavily armed? I have seen the very brief answer in the Minister's written response, but that is not satisfactory to me. Can the Minister go into this in more detail and consider the request to more heavily arm these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u160	I have indeed given a written answer to this question by Mr Bontes, but I am glad that he is asking the question again. We have a very careful monitoring system. Part of that is done by the Royal Marechaussee. Contrary to what Mr Bontes says, the military police have so-called long weapons if necessary. In principle, they are not used because they are not necessary in principle, but they can be used for this purpose. The use of a gun gun gun, which Mr Bontes is asking for, does not have much function without appropriate training. I'm sure Mr Bontes has had some experience with it. It's a weapon that you really need to know what to do with it, if you want to use it effectively. We have opted for a system on which I cannot say too much here. I can say that we have opted for specific well-trained teams, in a partnership of Defence and the police, which have all the firearms that are needed. It's a lot more and much more efficient firearms than a gun gun gun. We have also ensured that they can be on the spot very quickly. That is the system we have chosen: expert people with the right materials to act in the toughest and highest spectrum of violence. That's not expected of a police officer. In between there are the arrest teams, which, as Mr Bontes knows as no other, also have more powers and more armament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u161	That's right. The police have access to those weapons, but they can't carry them with them. Here at the door of the House of Representatives they do not use them, although they would like to. I can understand why you'd be better off resisting threats from ISIS if you have such a weapon at your disposal without having to pick it up anywhere. Then why is the Marechaussee standing with an ordinary gun in front of, for example, the House of Representatives building? Start training policemen, training with that heavier armament. I understand you can't just push someone into their hands with a gun gun gun, a Heckler & Koch, because they can't handle it. But the threat of terror is increasing every day. It started a year ago. It actually started much earlier, but well, let's go back a year. This training of, for example, people in emergency aid and the basic teams should have been done long ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u162	We have a very careful system of highly trained people who are active, up-to-date, day-to-day, able to operate 24 hours a day with the right weapons, which are many times better than the weapons you need to monitor and secure within the framework of the system. The Royal Marechaussee has access to those weapons. I can't say much more about that. Mr Bontes understands that. We have therefore come to a very careful system. Mr Bontes also read in the letter we sent in response to the attacks in Paris, that we have increased the readiness of these services and that we always consider what measures are needed. The measure proposed by Mr Bontes is not necessary at the moment. I'll continue with the National Police. In 2016, a substantial battle is already taking place in the fight against new criminal phenomena, such as cybercrime, financial-economic crimes and jihadism. In the coming years 600 side-intromers will join the National Police at HBO or WO level. In 2016 we will also continue the roll-out of the Mobile Effectiveer Op Straat project, which already shows the first results of using the smartphone with applications, for example in the alien chain but also in the street. In May 2016, I will send the definitive quality plan search to the Chamber. Mr Pechtold asked: isn't that too long? The answer is that we have already implemented a number of measures, in particular the additional influx of specialists, also following a request from the Chamber. Parate knowledge is also an example of a measure that is already being implemented. I think it is very important that, in addition to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the authorities and the police, other partners, such as stakeholders, scientists and, indeed, journalists, take part in this outline plan. No one will have noticed that a book was written by an old journalist, later detective, then bookwriter, Mr. Princen. He shows where the problem is, also in culture, when you join the National Police as a side-intromer. I also had a second opinion performed on that outline plan. I attach great importance to an open process with a great deal of external expertise. The developments in society also call for a police force connected with business, including multinationals, where the same innovations are often involved. They ask for a police force that is part of a wide local network with care and youth institutions, education and social services. It also calls for a police force to look internationally at what new phenomena are emerging, and for a police to prepare for the changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In addition to all these external developments, it also calls for an investigation that provides internal space for cultural change, leadership development, feedback and a knowledge base that is up-to-date. A new Chief of Staff will be appointed in 2016 and other existing posts will be provided in the Corps leadership. I've already had an exchange of views with the Chamber on that. Let me make this clear once again: I do not close my eyes to possible additional risks in the National Police budget. That is why, as has happened before for the Public Prosecutor through the De Galan reports, I will examine whether, with the foreseen amount of the budget for the material burden, the currently well-known ambitions in terms of performance, service, quality, personnel, housing and ICT can be achieved sustainably. In that investigation, I take the risks mentioned in the budget and in my recent letters, including the risks of the financing of the National Police's computer book. As I have already said to Mr Pechtold and Mr Oskam, I take the outcome of this study into account in my battleful discussion of the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u163	I would almost say that we have warned the Minister. Now I hear noises from the police organisation that we may have a financial setback in the field of ICT of 130 million. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u164	Last Monday, I informed the Chamber about the signals I received from the National Police that there is a possible problem with the ICT portfolio. That has been reason for me to include that signal in the investigation. I do not have any clarity about the amounts yet, but I will inform the Chamber in the spring. Moreover, this would mean that the National Police budget, which was surrendered a few months ago, is already showing a deficit which has not even been adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u165	For police and legal aid, an amount of 138 million is reserved. Does the Minister of Posts know that there is a deficit of 130 million on ICT alone? I want this confirmed because I hear noises that there is a deficit of 130 million on ICT. If that is the case, I want to be able to take that into account in the light of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u166	I'm trying to find the letter, because it seems like somehow it doesn't make sense what it says in letters I'm sending to the Chamber. It literally says that the police have informed me that there is an expected shortage on the ICT portfolio. I have said that this is a reason for me to take this seriously and to include it in the research into personnel and equipment in the spring. I can't make it any prettier. What amount is included is still the subject of the investigation. We still have to see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u167	We're talking about the police, but the minister himself is taking a side step towards the investigation into the prosecution by the Galan Group. There's also been a follow-up investigation, De Galan II.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u168	The state's attorney's office is the next block. We're still working on the police, so I think it's good that you keep that question for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u169	I'll save her for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u170	I can tell Mr Oskam that I am going to speak about this in detail. It's my next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u171	Yes, you did. Mr Pechtold still has a question about the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u172	I am picking up the thread where Mrs Kooiman managed to pull it out of the Minister's suit. The minister says he's going to investigate. That is an active attitude and I am very pleased with it. There are now rumours of an amount in the order of 130 million. If the Minister were to speak about this now, but it turns out that it will be 140 or 150 million in the near future, then I will not say that the Minister has misinformed us. I have said that I want to entrust it to the Minister to further develop the 138 million in investment, because there is also money for a collective agreement and for quality. However, if there is a new setback in about the same order of magnitude, it is part of the active information obligation to at least acknowledge that the amount that Mrs Kooiman has heard from sources is an amount that he has also heard. Maybe he doesn't know everything behind the comma yet, but the question is whether he has heard anything or if he hasn't heard, read or heard anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u173	Let me be clear about that: I have heard several amounts. There are amounts in the order of magnitude mentioned by Mrs Kooiman, there are amounts that are half of them. That's exactly why I said I want to know exactly what's going on. I've announced that this is a risk I'm taking stock of. Last Monday, I informed the Chamber that there is a risk and that I want to know exactly how high it is. I'm not making any suggestions about all kinds of amounts. I note that at least the 2016 National Police budget does not contain those amounts, while the ink is not dry yet. Then I get signals that there are problems. That is what I am going to do adequately to say that I want to know exactly what is going to happen, what priorities should be set, what choices should be made and what this will mean for the Spring paper. This is one of the subjects that I believe should be discussed in the framework of research into staff, equipment and the contribution to efficiency. This is one of the points that I will deal with very vigorously, also in the direction of the National Police, because I do think it is very awkward to work as a minister, including in the field of information, if you have to say shortly after the budget is submitted that you are not going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u174	That frustration, if I may sum it up, I share it with the Minister. For us as a controller, one step further away from that process, it is all the more frustrating. I therefore want a commitment in this area. If it were an amount of 130 million, or half of it, then we are still talking about tens of millions or more of
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u175	Or less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u176	We have now had to put up a hut to cover the collective agreement with 138 million and also to achieve a quality improvement. Can I have the Minister's promise that any setback we are talking about will not affect the 138 million, but that we will deal with them separately? This means that the collective agreement amounts to 138 million. That leaves us with quality. This deficit cannot suddenly be put back in that previous hole. Otherwise, we are budgeting in a way where we have to have budgetary treatment on a weekly basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u177	Mr Pechtold has a clear point. The 138 million look at a number of elements. Firstly, the results of the Wolfsen Committee. This concerns the entire legal aid debate. We really don't know what's coming out of that. I don't have a picture of that. Secondly, the collective agreement for the national police. Nor do I have a visual of what comes out of it. But I'm sure that collective agreement is going to cost money. Thirdly, the contour note to be presented in May 2016. For these things, the 138 million is meant. However, it may be that one of these elements will take up less than I think at the moment, which means that there will be more room within that 138 million. In that case, I shall open the debate with the Chamber on the use of that space. It may also be possible that the 138 million will not prove to be enough. If the Wolfsen Committee comes up with suggestions for increasing everything, then that amount could not be enough. I don't know right now. Even if the 138 million wouldn't be enough, I have a meeting with the Chamber. However you turn or turn, the amount of 138 million is intended for the cases I have just mentioned. If there's any left, I can use the rest in another way, and if there's a shortage, I'll come back to the Chamber anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u178	On the police section, I also asked questions about the railroad police. I have received an answer to these questions, for which I am grateful. However, I am still left with the following. Within the framework of yojo policy and efficiency, I wonder if it is useful to send an agent who specializes in everything related to water, a day trip to Amsterdam Centraal, and a policeman or woman who knows how to put everything about traffic in a boat. That does not seem to be efficient for the Green Left Group. We hear from the police themselves that the agents involved often know nothing about it, which makes enforcement a lot less. In view of the increased attention paid to safety, including around the stations, I would like to know from the Minister whether it would be more convenient to look again at another effort, for example, I would like to say that it may well be called different in the form of a team railway. Now there is only one changing single-area agent. One agent all over Amsterdam Centraal or all of Rotterdam Centraal doesn't give increased security, does it? The NS personnel are regularly expressing their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u179	I'll say a few things about that. The idea that there is one police officer for Amsterdam Centraal is not correct. Anyone who sometimes travels through Amsterdam Centraal will have a different picture of that. I also note that we have made very good agreements with the NS, the police, the trade unions and the NS railway staff. The other day I had a very good round table with Mr Dijksma. It was her first appearance as a new Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment in a series of talks we are having on this subject. In that conversation, there was a great deal of satisfaction with the police's efforts and the good agreements that have been made about them. There is no dissonance at that point. Of course, the national police ensure that there are sufficiently trained people tailored to the task they have in the Infrastructure Service. There's no problem, so we don't have to solve anything. Unfortunately, at the moment there is much more reason to have police officers at the stations than the one agent Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about. I hope that someday we will be able to scale it down again, but that will not be the case in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u180	The term "one-territory agent" comes from the Minister's reply, which I did not make up. There's definitely a problem. For example, the people of the water police specialize in the tasks they perform on the water. They have knowledge of the rules, know the local people and also detect many environmental crimes. Someone who's from the railroad or the traffic police really doesn't know that. There may not be any problems in the talks that the Minister is conducting, but there may be problems in terms of the quality of enforcement. The Minister will say that this will be reflected in the monitoring that will follow, but I am trying to mention here that we see a different policy, a yo-yo policy, in more areas. This is a problem that's coming. I would rather warn now, because I want to avoid saying in two years' time: GroenLinks probably had a point, but now we are going to do it. So I would like to ask the question again: does the Minister also want to talk to the specialized police officers about whether they really think that things are going well? Those signals are just there, from the water police, the traffic police and the people who used to be in the railroad police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u181	I do not recognise these signals from the conversations I have with the people who go about them and who have the daily experience, with the people who represent the cabin crew, with the people who represent the conductors and with the NS itself. None of them are coming with this signal. I did say that there was a discussion earlier about whether people were properly trained for certain topics within the Infrastructure Service. Written answers to Parliament's questions were then asked: of course people are adequately trained. Much more important, however, is that in this particular case it was not a police officer who was walking around the station. The point was that unacceptable forms of violence took place against people who do their jobs on trains. We have said together: we are going to ensure that the people who do that sort of thing are immediately arrested. Fortunately, this has been successful in the cases we have had in recent times, in particular because the 112 notifications, on which we have made good agreements, are being speeded up at an enormous rate. They do not need to be followed by a railway police officer; they need to be followed by the nearest agent. In doing so, we have guaranteed that, except for one, all of the perpetrators of abuse of railway workers have been arrested. That's what I stand for as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u182	Please continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u183	I said that with all the steps we are taking, the measures we are taking, the financial impetus we are giving and the debate we are still having in the spring following a number of investigations, we are well on the way to funding the National Police. But we're definitely not there yet. As I wrote to the Chamber in my letter of 23 November last on the police review, the police need more time to get the basics in order and to get further "in control." I will inform the Chamber very soon, no later than 1 December of this year, of the results of the so-called privacy audit on compliance with the Police Data Act. The audit shows that the police still do not comply with the law. The report, to my regret, confirms once again the picture of a still struggling practice, as the evaluation of the Police Data Act showed earlier. At the moment, I am putting the finishing touches to my policy response. I also informed the Chamber on 30 October of the police officer suspected of leaking police information. In this letter I mentioned a number of measures taken either by the Chief Constable or by myself in response to this incident. For example, following the incident in all trust functions for which a security investigation A is required by the AIVD, the Chief Constable checked whether a declaration of no objection has been issued to the appointed employee. I can inform the Chamber of the latter in writing earlier than I expected. I come to Mrs Kooiman and Mr Van Oosten's question as to how much money is needed for the extra search. I have already indicated that extra funds will be needed for detection once the contour note has been established. For this, the reservation of 138 million has been included. Mr Van Oosten asked whether part of the 60 million that is occasionally released for the refugee problem would go to the police. The answer to that is no. It has been agreed that we will look at the impact of the refugee problem with regard to the police in the spring. I have already made a commitment to Mr Pechtold on the Spring note. Finally, there was a very specific question from Mr Kuzu about the police. Unfortunately, he's not here right now, but I'll answer the question anyway. He assumed that there was so-called ethnic profiling by police officers and that I wouldn't do anything about it. I disagree with Mr Kuzu that the Dutch police would be talking about structural ethnic profiling. I have spoken about this with Mr Marcouch on many occasions in the past. The fact that this is not the case is also demonstrated by two studies on the concerns about it, which were published in spring 2014. Leiden University and the National Ombudsman have looked into this. The police strongly combat discrimination and ethnic profiling along four lines, namely the connection in the district, investment in training, raising awareness and an inclusive culture, both among managers and employees, an accessible and independent complaint regime and a diverse workforce. I have also discussed this with the Chamber on many occasions. In my letter of 16 November last year, I also gave the Chamber an insight into the vision document of the National Police about diversity and discrimination. The fact that this is a topical issue is something the Chief Constable himself has put forward. I would now like to move on to the block on the Public Prosecutor's Office, but there may still be questions with the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u184	In my first term, I drew attention to human trafficking versus trafficking in human beings. Is the minister still going to come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u185	That's a good question. The Secretary of State will be happy to give his views on human trafficking. If you repeat your question on trafficking in human beings for me, I might be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u186	So it's in between. The priority now rightly goes to human trafficking, because of the influx. However, we are getting signals that this is at the expense of research opportunities in the field of trafficking in human beings. Think, for example, of prostitution et cetera. That's what worries us. One is important and the other is important. We would like to hear from the Minister that he is a priority in trafficking in human beings, for which he is responsible. Because they shouldn't be communicating vessels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u187	I find that a difficult discussion. Trafficking in human beings is not just about transporting people from Syria, Turkey or Iraq to the Netherlands. That happens in a way that is criminal enough to cost people their lives. Hundreds of people drowned in the Mediterranean Sea because they were in bad boats. 70 people have been shoved into a sealed truck and they probably paid thousands of euros per person for that. I think it is perfectly right that the Royal Marechaussee and the National Police have put in place a good and strong policy on this issue. Of course, human trafficking is still being investigated, as that remains an important priority of this cabinet. Given what is actually happening, I think that Mr Voordewind can also justify the fact that, at the moment, attention is being paid to human trafficking, without neglecting the other. It does mean you can only use people once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u188	That is the political point. I understand that it requires a little more attention now than the other, but if you consider both important, it will be a financial issue. We have, of course, heard these signals. Then the question is whether you could still use the 138 million to maintain the capacity to combat trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u189	We're already maintaining the police capacity. We are already above capacity and I have already promised the Chamber that this will remain so. If you wanted new capacity, you'd be working on it for three years. Even if you wanted to, it wouldn't have any effect for the needs of today. You'll always have to make choices, and we will. In my opinion, we are doing this responsibly. I also feel that Mr Voordewind, given the seriousness of human trafficking, which in many cases leads to murder or manslaughter, can support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u190	Mr Oskam, do you have a question on this point or is your question about the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u191	No, I'll put it at the block about the D.A.'s office. I have two more questions about the police. How the minister does it, I don't know, because I didn't see him leave, but the letter about ZEMBLA is out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u192	Multitasking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u193	He can do anything. That creates expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u194	Then Mr. Oskam knows more than I do, because I haven't seen the letter yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u195	Then I'm gonna tell him something nice. The number of financial detectives should go from 650 to 1,100. How are we gonna do that? When are we gonna do that? Is this at the expense of basic police care or are we gonna hire extra people from outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u196	I am glad that Mr Oskam is asking this question. I just read it literally, but I'll do it again. Those 600 police officers are included in the current National Police budget. That's being deployed right now. I have just communicated that answer to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u197	Yeah, 600, but we're talking 1,100 now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u198	There's already a little under 600 and there's gonna be 600. Then we come, out of my head, at 1,163.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u199	Well, that's very nice. On another point, I have received a written reply. That's about overtime. The Minister said that it was all resolved around the nuclear summit. I'm glad. However, I still get the message from police unions and police officers that they cannot take time off in December because of the threat of terrorism, asylum seekers' centres and old and new. There's another reservoir of overtime and leave hours open. That runs in the tens of millions of guilders. I'd like to know from the Minister if that's true. What about the nuclear summit? I also want to know how we are going to solve all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u200	Mr Oskam asks whether we are talking about tens of millions of guilders. Well, I have good news: whatever it is, it's always half. However, I do not have the answer to the question. We in the National Police have two types of surcharges, the irregularity allowance and the picket fee. I will answer this question in the second term. Mr Oskam also asked about a mer à boire of financial problems surrounding the Nuclear Security Summit. That is not the case. That's good to establish. All this was completed in 2014. What is at issue on the other point, I shall look into it. By the way, that money is being spent on police officers for irregularity and picketing, shouldn't be a surprise, because that's what it is. I would also add that I do not find it strange that extra calls are being made to police officers around old and new or because of the threats that are currently there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u201	I have a question following Mr Oskam's questions. We have indeed received a letter from the cabinet following the broadcast of ZEMBLA. In that speech it was also about expensive detectives overtapping the data provided by banks. Those detectives should actually catch criminals. Now I understand from the Minister's letter that software will be created in the first quarter of next year to ensure that this is no longer necessary. Does this mean that the detectives, the 75 fte that was mentioned in that broadcast of ZEMBLA, who are now doing daily data overtapping, are being used for the work they are meant for, namely the detectives and the picking of those criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u202	I have to give that answer in the second term, because I have not been able to take the letter myself in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u203	At the end of the block about the police I still have a pressing question about the accessibility of the police in the neighbourhoods. We've just talked about the neighborhood agents. Unfortunately, the Minister intends to close half the police stations. We do not agree on that, and we will not agree on that either. We agree on the way in which you solve this, namely by being more on the road. However, the Minister also, I understand, cuts 20% on mobility. Will the Minister take a good look at this austerity? If cops are supposed to be in the neighborhood, they're gonna need a police car to do that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u204	Any cuts will never result in police cars not being available to police officers. Not too long ago there was a lot of fuss about the procurement of police cars. Rightly so, because it is a billion-dollar investment. Mrs. Kooiman knows that, too. So there are a lot of police cars for police officers. However, I am always happy to say that I will take a good look at mobility in the implementation of the efficiency strike at police stations agreed with local authorities, because it involves enabling agents to be much more on the streets. The Mobile More Effective On Street (MEOS) programme is a very important development in this respect. I've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u205	My question is not just about MEOS, because that is indeed a nice system. My question is mainly about the police cars. Especially the neighborhood agents we were just talking about say: if the emergency service needs the police car, we have to wait until the car gets back. That's the kind of signals I get from the field. I'm sure the Minister will hear that, too. Does he intend to at least look at how he can solve these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u206	I am not aware of the problem, but I am pleased that Mrs Kooiman is raising it. In general, I always do. I will pass on Mrs Kooiman's concern to the Chief Constable and understand with him about it. I will write to Mrs Kooiman about this, which is expected before the end of the year. Now I'm gonna join the state's attorney's office. It is good to know that two investigations have been carried out resulting in two reports on whether the Public Prosecutor can handle the cabinet's mission. Is the cabinet's mission justified? The Public Prosecutor's Office, like all other public administrations, has been asked to contribute to the necessary reduction of government financial deficits. In 2013, De Galan's first report on this issue was published, called De Galan-I. That report has been a mission of the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor together. This showed that the mission of this cabinet was justified, taking into account previous targets and taking into account a number of framework conditions in the areas of housing and ICT. The D.A.'s office has also accepted that assignment. In 2015, the College of Prosecutors-General without the Ministry of De Galan requested that the investigation be updated. That is the so-called De Galan-II, on which I have had a frequent exchange of views with Mr Oskam among others. The Galan Group advises in its report to temporize the cuts or adjust ambitions. At my request, an independent expert carried out a validation of De Galan-II. That is also obvious, because the Ministry itself was not the sponsor of the second report. This shows that the Public Prosecutor's Office, unlike De Galan, concludes that it is on course to achieve the mission without additional resources, provided that the surplus on their budget can be used to cover the savings losses in the period 2016-2018 from 2020. I am, of course, prepared to do so. Therefore, according to the validation, the structural financial compensation in the context of the efficiency task is not necessary, based on the assumption that the Public Prosecutor's Office will continue to operate at the existing quality and service level. On the other hand, the cabinet attaches great importance to a forward-looking Public Prosecutor's Office which, in addition to achieving the necessary efficiency gains, has the space to invest in ICT as well as to give a strong boost to current work processes and quality and service levels. In order to achieve these wishes, additional funding was needed and the cabinet made 15 million structurally available to the Public Prosecutor's Office from 2016. Is that the only extra thing the D.A.'s office has gotten in recent years? No, because also in the written answer to Mr Van der Staaij's questions, I indicated that, as a result of the results of the Hoekstra Committee, there is 6.8 million in 2016 and additional funds will be made available structurally in 2019 for the implementation of the recommendations. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office has received structural additional resources for addressing issues with an international dimension, i.e. 5 million from 2015 onwards up to 20 million structurally from 2017 onwards and for counter-terrorism nearly 1 million in 2016 rising to 2.1 million structurally from 2018. In the same vein, Mrs Kooiman has asked why the Minister is not even doing anything, while the Public Prosecutor's Office is getting more and more tasks and is under-investment. I paraphrase that, because that's not how she asked the question, but that's how it looks. That leads me to the same answer. We have already made a number of structural improvements in the Public Prosecutor's Office and this was also the result of my predecessor's agreement with the Public Prosecutor's Office that there would always be an outstretched hand if the Public Prosecutor's Office were to be compromised as a result of the targets. With today's structural complement, I see the need to invest extra in the Public Prosecutor's Office, although the validation of De Galan-II shows that this is not necessary. Mr Oskam has asked whether new pathways such as digitisation and the OM 2020 project should not require much more investment in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I refer him back to the validation of the independent expert. The Public Prosecutor's Office is on track to achieve the efficiency task without additional resources. This also applies to the savings series resulting from the implementation of the Public Prosecutor's Office 2020. For the record, I would like to point out to Mr Oskam that it is not just a austerity operation, but that it has been explicitly used by the Public Prosecutor as a quality improvement and efficiency operation, because the Public Prosecutor's Office also recognises that the way in which it is conducted so far can be significantly improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u207	I continue to find it difficult, because the Minister always cooks with good cooperation with his services. When the D.A. thought they weren't gonna make it, they called in De Galan-II and told the minister to join in so they could see what had to happen together. The minister didn't do that, and the DA did it himself. Then there was a guy from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm just saying a little bit plastic. And he said it's all wrong and it's got to be different. Then there was 15 million out of the top hat, with some amounts for Hoekstra and other things. But the D.A.'s office is just saying to the Chamber: we can't make it with the 15 million, there's gotta be at least 30 million. I think it is also well-founded by De Galan's report that more space is needed after austerity. I know everyone's gonna say the CDA is responsible for that, too. I'm not running away from that either, but the water's up to the D.A.'s lips. Why are we gonna push it through to the end before we figure this out? As far as I'm concerned, that 15 million will add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u208	Let me first say that I find Mr De Jong, former Director-General of the National Budget of the Ministry of Finance, to be truly wrong. I also think that does not suit Mr Oskam, because Mr De Jong is one of the top experts in the field of financial budgetary problems, precisely what the De Galan report is about. I don't know how that report came about with De Galan. I wasn't involved. But I note that the D.A.'s office had a report drawn up, which is her right, that I had it validated and that there was a difference in two areas. On the one hand, the Public Prosecutor's Office has counted itself enormously richer in De Galan's report than what, according to the experts, is the reality. So the public prosecutor's enthusiasm for its own financial results is tempered by the expert, who said on the other hand that the downside of the coin is that within the frameworks that are there, it can do without additional investment. I think that's a very serious validation. Once Mr Oskam has read it, he will also see that in a number of areas the expert also says that assumptions have been made that are not sufficiently substantiated by the underlying figures and that he cannot honour them for that reason. I think that is perfectly reasonable, so you have a financial discussion with each other. I don't think we should change that either. So I do not recognize myself in the image Mr Oskam sketches. That is also contradicted by the expert. That's not just anybody. At the same time, I am not blind to the need of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the express desire to invest in a number of areas. Together with the cabinet, I would also like to elaborate on this. We did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u209	I take the word "male" back, because that is of course not magical, I understand that very well, but it is a three-year frustration that adds up: the reports from the prosecutor that it is difficult, the reports that it is almost impossible, the reports that the water is in the lips. Then this minister gets the bad luck that his predecessor said every time: we'll be fine. But now we've come to the point where it's really serious. Then that report is requested, and the Minister refuses to stick together. That is his right, but then you will of course get the tension that is emerging now. It just needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u210	But that tension has been resolved, because we now find that the De Galan-II report does not lead to the conclusion that extra money should be added to the Public Prosecutor's Office, that with the current level of ambition and the current level of service and quality, it can simply be within the framework. Despite this, there is the solution, also in the direction of Mr Oskam...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is exactly what Mr Oskam wants. That's exactly what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u211	I've seen that validation and it's solid, but it's on the money and it's made by a financial expert, not so much on the content. Then I saw that the cabinet also fulfilled what it had said with the outstretched hand, namely: if there are problems, then there will be money. But I still have one concern, namely the primary process, because that 15 million is for additional investments. I think it is particularly important that the work to be done in the primary process is not endangered. Can the Minister guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u212	No, I can never guarantee that there are no dangers whatsoever in the world, because working at the D.A.'s office is also very complex. Mr Recourt knows this better than anyone else, because he has worked there too. But he will also remember that in a number of areas the work processes could be a bit more efficient. That's exactly what I'm trying to do to enable the D.A.'s office. This is also mentioned: if you can make us invest, more than we can already do, in these work processes, in ICT, also in a number of areas specifically related to detection and the way in which we can collect and process information, then this can take a huge amount of time. That's where we see that investment. But of course it is up to the public prosecutor to further elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u213	If I understand the Minister correctly, then these investments are indeed meant to have that basic path in order. If he can then promise that he will at least remain in conversation with the Public Prosecutor, with the same outstretched hand when it simply doesn't work out, then I am a lot more reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u214	That outstretched hand will always be there. I couldn't have done anything. Based on the validation of De Galan II, I could have just said that there is no reason for the Public Prosecutor to invest extra. I could have said that, but I've got an outstretched hand if that's what it takes. I now choose to say that I see the need, that I also see the need, and that I think that we should put a structural amount on that. We shouldn't say: we do a million here and a million there. It must be a serious amount that can make real, serious investments in the quality of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is why the 15 million was created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u215	Let me say first of all that I appreciate the 15 million. That's a serious extra investment. At the same time: whether you take De Galan II or the validation, the validation still talks about the need for cash slides to meet the deficits for 2016. So it's not a big deal; I think we'll agree on that soon. The Galan II talked about temporizing. That would be necessary, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u216	So there's no need to temporize. That's important. A cash drawer isn't crazy. That's common knowledge. It can just be used. The Public Prosecutor's Office will, according to the validation, create surpluses less than one thought in the future. You can use them to solve the shortage they encountered in 2016. That's what the state's attorney's office is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u217	The question remains about the risks to the primary process, as the PvdA Group has already pointed out. You can dive into the technique, but I don't think that's good for the political debate. This is what I'm talking about. If you see how much extra you can do with a few million to serve those important goals, in order to really set up more cases about jihadism organised crime, is the Minister prepared, for example, to put the question the other way round in the spring note? So he should not only focus on whether we can go out with the money we have, but also on what happens if we add something to it for those important purposes. Could we actually get a lot more cases before the courts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u218	At the moment there is no discussion of this with the Public Prosecutor's Office, because it is said that things can be done in the way they are done. It is also said that if we can invest these additional millions, we can do it even more efficiently and better, and that might allow us to do more. I also note that this is not the only thing we do. We've cleared 20 million for the business case on taking away. That $20 million goes to the state's attorney's office. We have made funds available for the implementation of the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission. A substantial part of this also goes to the Public Prosecutor's Office, because it has a different role than it currently has and needs to do more work, but also has to do other work. In all these areas, therefore, we are addressing the Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course there is an outstretched hand, as I said to Mr Recourt. When the Public Prosecutor says that there are a lot of extra things in the field of jihadism and that people are getting into trouble, the Public Prosecutor always finds me by his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u219	I think it's important to hear that the outstretched hand doesn't mean "if the calf has drowned, they're muffling the well," but that the outstretched hand also means proactively that if we invest extra now, we can do a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u220	Sure, if that's what it takes. We know that 80 criminal investigations are already under way, just within the current budget, to some 110 suspects of terrorist/jihadist violence. Those are things that are simply being implemented within the current budget and in an excellent way. I also hope that this will lead to a good result. If it turns out there's more to that, of course, I'll always have that conversation with the D.A.'s office. At this point, we're not gonna take any chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u221	I also understood that there is another discussion going on between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry about the extent to which the validation is still final. Looking at the past few years, you're currently cutting back, despite the $100 million investment. There are additional tasks, however, which have to do with increasing jihadism, organised crime and undermining crime. Those are all extra points. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Recourt have both asked a very important question, namely whether the Minister is prepared to look...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u222	That question has also been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u223	Well, if I may ask a question, we can see if it has been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u224	Yeah, but you just said that yourself. I'm fine with you asking questions, but you yourself say they've asked a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u225	Then I'll rephrase the question. Can the Minister promise that he will talk to the Public Prosecutor, go through all the bottlenecks, inform the Chamber about this and possibly look at additional resources in the Spring Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u226	I think I just said that. I'm gonna rephrase it. There are always conversations, ongoing talks, with the D.A. about these kinds of aspects. I have just said to Mr Recourt and Mr Van der Staaij that of course I am always available to discuss the needs with the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u227	"Speaking" is something other than identifying bottlenecks and, if necessary, coming up with additional resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u228	That's exactly what I did. What Mrs Kooiman describes are the discussions we had with De Galan II, their validation and subsequent conclusions. In addition, I have said that there is always an outstretched hand to the state's attorney's office if necessary. We're having that conversation, too. That's what I said yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u229	Does the Minister see the pattern of the morning? We have dealt with the police: 138 million, but yes, we still have a collective agreement to get rid of and then we hope that there is some quality; and yes, there is also a disappointment that could be up to 130 million. We have dealt with the judiciary: yes, we have a lot of stuff about housing, we do not know what it can yield, we still have a desire for quality, but yes, can we pay it out of the amount that has now been made available? Now the state's attorney's office and it's exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u230	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u231	My question to the Minister is: we note that it was very much necessary for money to be added on Friday, but is this a full budget? Can you go on for a year? Or are we going to be standing here almost every week with progress reports and new, not so much wishes, but holes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u232	Mr Pechtold actually repeats the very first question he asked this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u233	And I'll give you the same answer. I am very pleased with the impetus given to this budget. I note that 200 million is being structurally invested in all those areas where the Chamber has expressed wide-ranging concerns, including the coalition parties. I note that we know that we will have another discussion with each other on the Spring paper in a number of areas. And I note that you will never be able to say about this department, given the tasks that I have outlined in my introduction: 1 January 2016 we are at the beginning, we are running towards the end of the year and in the meantime we don't have to talk to the Chamber about anything. It's never gonna be that way. I might like to, because that would mean that we don't have any additional challenges, but we always will. That is the nature of the department and also the task it represents. I have a very good feeling about the budget that is now before me, and I would like to pay tribute to Mr Pechtold on this matter, but also to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u234	If it had been a company, I don't think the accountant would have said: with so many uncertainties we'll get to work on it. The Minister asks for a lot of trust from the Chamber. That is why I find it so significant that this is now the third dossier where, if you look at it honestly, and look at the overlaps of problems, you know for sure that there will be money to be added in the spring. Now it's back in the D.A.'s office. I think there's a danger in that. I hope that, at the end of his first term, the Minister will pass through all the financial problems and make an assessment of his position in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u235	I understand your question, but I think that the Minister has done a very extensive piece of finance in the first term. In view of the clock, it seems reasonable that we should leave it at that and perhaps return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u236	I won't run the whole list again. I think I've said enough about that. It was very clear that an improvement was desired, needed and that we also have it. In addition, between us all in confesso, we will get results from a number of surveys in the spring and none of us will know what the consequences are. I understood Mr Pechtold very well when he said that he expected me to be combative. I will. I'm coming to the NFI. Mrs Kooiman has asked what the extra money that will be available will be spent on. As of 2016, I will make 5 million euros extra available for forensic research. In 2016, this will be used for the additional research capacity required by the NFI to alleviate the bottlenecks identified by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and for the costs to be incurred in achieving the efficiency mission. From 2017 onwards, 2 million euros will be deployed structurally to keep additional capacity available through other private institutions. This is a consequence of the discussion that has been held here in the Chamber with my predecessor, partly because of the importance of counter-expertise. The remaining 3 million are then in favour of the NFI. This amount provides exactly what is needed to solve those bottlenecks experienced by the NFI. We have often said that it can never be the case that the NFI is paid through open-ended funding. Mr Van Oosten, Mr Oskam, Mr Recourt, Mr Kooiman and Mr Krol asked for the reduction of the subsidy for the Disputes Committee. Is the Minister prepared to enter into consultation with the business community in order to avoid increasing the pressure on regular case law due to the planned austerity? There is an amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen, supported by a number of other Members. I note that I have looked very carefully at this. I have chosen very carefully to ask the business community to gradually take over the role of the government in these committees because of its enthusiasm for the 54 arbitration committees. That "slower hand" is in his mind that it is a reduction in the grant in five years. I received a letter from VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands on the reduction of the subsidy. I am prepared to consult with both organizations. I would have promised the Chamber that I would monitor developments closely, but I found that there is a broad conviction in the Chamber that it would be wise to have the dispute committees partly financed privately and partly by the government. That is why I would like to discuss this with Mr Van Nispen and the other signatories of the amendment. The way it is now, it can't technically. We may be able to come up with an amendment which is technically feasible. I am prepared to look for cover within the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u237	For the Acts, I note that Mr Van Nispen nods in agreement and thus accepts this outstretched hand. We can therefore look forward to a new amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u238	I can also promise to reverse the austerity. Perhaps that could lead Mr Van Nispen to withdraw his amendment, but we can see that in the second period. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt has challenged me to express the ambition that the number of fighting divorces should be reduced by 50%. When I heard Mr Recourt say that last night, I thought "if we abolish marriage we are already a long way away," but I do not think that is the solution we are looking for. It should be noted that in the case of divorces, it is not primarily about the interests of the spouses but about the interests of the children. Mr Van der Staaij, like Mr Recourt, spoke about this. I consider the interests of the children involved in divorces to be my responsibility, in so far as the parents do not have the primary responsibility for this. I am therefore committed to a decreasing trend in the number of fighting divorces. There are several indicators to which this development can be seen: the number of divorces on the contrary, the number of investigations carried out by the Council for the Protection of the Child, the number of interim provisions dealt with for divorce and so on. The latest figures seem to indicate a decrease in the number of divorces, but I am keeping a close eye on those figures. To improve the situation of children in a fighting divorce, the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport and I are implementing a comprehensive implementation plan that was sent to the Chamber on 31 but 2014. This gives plenty of room for projects that we support, promote or initiate. I can give examples of this, but I will not do so now. On 27 January, the Chamber set up a general consultation on this subject, which will cover all the instruments in the field of fighting divorces, as well as the new and creative ideas that are worth exploring further. I would like to take Mr Recourt's challenge to that general discussion. I therefore look forward to this debate in order to give more weight to it. I'll get to the last question. I would like to take that question from Mr Krol. The question was: what role does the Minister see for himself in promoting the resilience of elderly people living at home, who, as Mr Krol says, are easy targets for criminals? In order to prevent the victims of high-impact crises for older people, the following concrete actions targeted at this vulnerable group are supported. Every year thousands of seniors are visited by voluntary house visitors at home. In doing so, it shall cooperate with the Union KBO. During the visit, a security advisor and the senior will examine how to make his or her home safer. It has appeared that many elderly people have too little sense of safety in that regard. The Union has also given KBO nearly 100 information meetings across the Netherlands. All 200,000 members of the Union KBO have been informed through the member magazine Nestor with a reader area of 350 000 people on how to prevent a home robbery, a chat or a burglary. If I have understood correctly I am not quite sure I have written a preface for that too. We are doing this precisely in order to emphasise to the elderly how important it is that they secure themselves properly. In addition, I work together with a large number of municipalities and the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. Municipalities provide information to the elderly and the Centre for Crime Prevention and Safety issues the brochure Older people in safe hands, which can be used at information meetings, and has developed an e-learning module for seniors. There are also hundreds of digital door spies and crack stand holders scattered among this target group. In the government's view, this means that it attaches great importance to the vulnerable position of older people and that it takes action in all possible ways, including with the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u239	I am, of course, impressed and very grateful for these answers. I now also thank the Minister for the wonderful written answers. The answer to the questions shows that it is mainly directed at the FBO. That's fantastic, but there are also older people who aren't Catholic. Maybe they need to be achieved, too. How does the Minister intend to do that? I have a few other supplementary questions. The Minister has answered my questions about NL-Alert, but he has not indicated how and when, and I am curious about that. The Minister has also come up with a fantastic solution for the life testament. I am glad that it can be done in another way and that it does not have to be done with the notary. But how are we going to make the elderly aware of that? I also ask this because it will save us a lot of costs. Yesterday, a decision was taken in the European Parliament on returning Syrians. Yesterday the Minister was unable to respond, but perhaps he can now, since he has been able to think about it a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u240	We have answered the question about the Syrians in writing. I have announced that, as I promised the Chamber in the debate on Paris, we are going to examine how we can take other measures. I have just read out what non-Catholic activities are also undertaken by the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security and by municipalities, where primary responsibility lies in this area. We support the congregations in that. Mr Krol asked about NL-Alert. When? I'm not ready for that. I can give an indication of that in the second period. How? If I had known that, I would have written it down and put it in the answer. Mr Krol also asked about the life testament: how are we going to announce that? I have to think about whether, in the sense of the government, we have a responsibility in that regard. It seems to me that the elderly unions, and perhaps 50PLUS through their own channels, whether through Twitter or not, can announce that a life testament can also be without a notarial act. Moreover, in many cases it seems sensible to me to do so with notarial deed, but that consideration must be made by everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u241	The Netherlands is European shoplifting champion. I asked why the Minister didn't commit to the Safety Small Business Scheme. Doesn't that mean he's dropping SMEs, while the figures show that all attention is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u242	No. We work very well with private parties and especially SMEs. This is what we do in the Week of Safety, for example. We pay a great deal of attention to shoplifting, because we know that they are much more common in autumn than in other periods, if there is more light. Shoplifting and shoplifting are covered by high-impact crimes. A whole series of measures have been taken, leading to a massive decline in the number of shoplifters. A good example is a very successful project of police and justice in Rotterdam, with the number of shop robberies falling even more than in other cities. I have already promised to give Rotterdam's best practices to other municipalities. In every possible way we do everything about the problem of shoplifting and especially shoplifting, because the latter is, of course, even more pragmatous. At the same time, you can see that entrepreneurs take their own responsibility and take many preventive measures. In the past, we have had the discussion about whether we should support municipalities in preventing the use of the so-called smuggling bags through the APV that can circumvent the gates. We have done so and all kinds of measures have been taken to that end. All things considered, I have said that it is slowly time to say goodbye to the temporary impetus we have given through the project referred to by Mr Pechtold. That is now being phased out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u243	I think that is a wrong development. The Netherlands is at the top of Europe when it comes to the problem of shoplifting. It is one of the most visible and frustrating problems. It is an enormous blood drain for SMEs. That is why I believe that the priority cannot be reduced by a long time. If we were to be out of the top ten by now, I would think it was something else. I appeal to the Minister and to the VVD: do not let me stand up for the SMEs alone. I believe that this arrangement should be maintained. I want a commitment from the Minister. It's a piece of shit. Either I get that commitment or I come up with a motion to bring the Minister to it. I therefore hope to get support from the corner of fellow liberals and Christian democracy. The PvdA is already chasing me: Pechtold, hold on, stay in the Minister's calves. So you can feel the pressure on me. Do I get a commitment that we will be able to keep this arrangement for a few more years and not reconsider it again for another three or four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u244	I'll take a look at that. Did Mr Pechtold also have coverage in mind for the extra costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u245	I didn't think that was a problem all morning. I think it was one big cover. I'm sure the Minister will cover that in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u246	I can't do that, because the spring note isn't exactly my job. I'll take a look at it. At the beginning of the second term, I will let you know whether this has changed my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u247	I would like to return to the subject of ethnic profiling. The Minister replied, both orally and in writing today. In his answers he indicates that there is no structural ethnic profiling. I assume he admits that there is occasional ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u248	The Chief Constable once said it so well when we had a discussion about discrimination. The question was: does discrimination occur among the 60,000 people who work in the National Police? Then the chief of police said the following. The National Police are a reflection of society on many fronts. There are people with right-wing ideas and left-wing ideas. There are people from all ethnic backgrounds. Undoubtedly, there is someone in there who may be judging who he speaks to on the street on the basis of appearance. I can't in any way rule that out. In the meantime, we are doing everything we can to prevent such incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u249	It is good that that happens, but the Minister pretends it is a small-scale problem. That can also be seen in the answers he gives to this question: it would be very occasional and sometimes someone may be there to do so. But I think he underestimates this problem. Since even the Chief Constable indicates that this is the case, my colleague Marcouch has been drawing attention to this for five years and the Minister indicates that it is being fought in a powerful way, and he gives a number of examples, I ask: is it not time to focus more strongly on it, to think up new things and to find solutions, even if it is occasional?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u250	It is very difficult to find solutions in people's minds. It is very good that the Chief Constable has indicated that the subject is on the agenda. That is thanks to Mr Marcouch. Mr Kuzu is right to say so. I think that Mr Marcouch has not touched on the subject himself today because I think he himself sees what efforts are being made. I would like to congratulate the Chief Constable on the fact that they are doing so. We have recently investigated whether this is very common. The good thing is that the National Ombudsman, who is very independent, and the universities both come to a different conclusion than Mr Kuzu's suggestion. I'm not ruling out that it can happen, but it's being worked hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u251	The Minister cites two investigations: one of the National Ombudsman and one of Leiden University. On the other hand, Amnesty International and the United Nations are still making this a tough point. The Minister always tries to make it very small while the problem is raised by international institutions. I would therefore like to ask him once again: do not put your head in the sand, come out of this denial phase and work on it more concretely! That is good for trust in our institutions, that is good for respect and that is good for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u252	I fully agree with Mr Kuzu that it is a good thing that we continue to do everything possible to prevent ethnic profiling. That's exactly the policy. The Chief Constable is very well aware of that. Studies show that it is not structural. We have already done these investigations because we were concerned about them, also in connection with Mr Marcouch's comments on them. Our policy is very clear: ethnic profiling is not acceptable within the National Police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u253	This brought an end to the Minister's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u254	In view of the clock, I suggest that we suspend for lunch until 2:00 p.m. At the start of the meeting after lunch, we shall vote first. Then there is an arrangement of work and then we move on.
