ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I give the floor to Mrs Thieme of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Artificially low groundwater levels, few cows in the meadow, short grass and uniform landscape combined with a soft winter mean that mouse plagues are lurking, as we all know. That's what we've had. The solution does not deserve a beauty prize. That's why I'm filing the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the mouse plague in Friesland was combated by dieron-friendly methods such as gassing and drowning;]] [[Whereas the Government has undertaken to discourage such methods;]] [[calls on the government to combat the use of animal-friendly mice in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that CO-gases in accordance with the European biocidal product directive are a method that should not be used to combat pests;]] [[noting that the government has tolerated the illegal use of this method to combat mice in Friesland;]] [[calls on the Government, in future, to ensure that enforcement action is taken against the use of this illegal and dierron-friendly method,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-316]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-317]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last winter, many green pastures turned into desert plains, a great disaster for many entrepreneurs in Friesland, but also outside. It was a bit difficult to get started in the first instance, but at the insistence of the sector and the House of Representatives, the province and ministry took measures. In particular, I would like to highlight the commitment of the Secretary of State to the European Commission. It has paid off, for which I and our appreciation. I don't have any motions right now, but I do have a few questions. How does the handling of claims at the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland proceed? How's the loan facility? Is it all running as intended? In the context of the prevention of damage by earlier intervention, I note that an investigation is under way into the causes of the damage and a possible approach to it. How's that going? Is public health involved in this too? In 2015, farms with severe mouse damage are exempted from the requirement of 80% grassland. The condition for the derogation is that 65% of grassland remains, but according to the greening requirements of the CAP someone is "green by definition" if he has 75% grassland. Do dairy farmers have to meet the greening requirements for one year or is this also covered by the calamity scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. I hear from Mr Graus that ladies always go first, so I thank him for letting me go first now. I can actually be very brief, because I just have a question for the Secretary of State on the handling of claims by the CoR and on the implementation of the derogation. In particular, what should dairy farmers, i.e. grassland owners, take into account in 2015 when it comes to the derogation? These questions have actually been so well asked by Mr Geurts that I do not need to repeat them. I would like to say to the Secretary of State that my group too is very grateful for what has happened in recent months, at least just after the outbreak of the mouse plague. I've read the decision to use fertilizers. That is what I have seen in it, including the way in which what is regulated in Brussels is anchored. Calamities sometimes occur; that's just the way it is. But I sincerely hope that, in such a situation in the future, we will be able to act quickly to reduce damage and a great deal of suffering, as has been the case in recent months. Thank you, at least, for the Secretary of State's commitment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. The farmers in Friesland and in a number of other provinces have suffered damage caused by a lot of mice that were underground. Everyone who has visited these farmers has seen how heartbreaking that is for the entrepreneurs themselves. At least I've experienced that personally. I am therefore pleased that I have been able to take a number of steps with your Chamber to meet them. In the fight against plagues, however, we always opt for the most animal-friendly method where possible. However, it must be available. The extent of the plague in this case was so great that at some point it asked for the measures to be taken. I would like to say here that there has been no illegal fight. Mrs Thieme has just said this between her nose and her lips, but we have simply granted an exemption. That goes according to the rules, as it should be. I think it is important to note that the two motions that have been tabled are not recommended by me. In the motion in part No. 316 calls on the government to combat the use of anti-dangerous mice in the future. As has been said, the aim is to combat where possible animal-friendly methods. There's got to be. We used the existing methods because they were the only methods. In Mrs Thieme's terms, they are dierron friendly. In fact, it says in this motion that you cannot fight this way anymore, but I simply cannot do that now, because then we will really be empty-handed in the fight against this scourge. For that reason, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u6	The Secretary of State himself confirmed in reply to my written parliamentary questions that it is not allowed to fight with CO mice in the wild.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u7	Yes, but I did grant an exemption to do so. The fact that this medicine was not yet generally available does not mean that, if used, it is illegal in advance. I'd like to put that subtle nuance here anyway. That brings me to the motion in part No. 317. In the context of the investigation, CO exemption was granted. We will always apply the legal frameworks. For that reason, I must also discourage this motion. Then I come to the questions put by Mr Geurts and supported by Mrs Lodders. The handling at the Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland (RVO) is progressing rapidly. It also helps that at an early stage we have already started to make up the pain, with the damage reports. For the financial part of the grant, the loan facility and the distribution, the province is the first move. My impression is that this is going well in itself. That is not our primary responsibility, however. There will be results after the summer, and of course we will inform the Chamber about this, as well as about the research we are doing in relation to the aspects of public health. Mr Geurts asked what exactly happened. Are you still green by definition if you don't meet the grassland requirement? I would like to assure the Chamber that I will return to this point precisely in the reporting of the general consultation on the Agriculture Council. We know that this has been done, but I cannot get the exact text available at the moment. Then I think it would be better for us to do so in writing, in a letter which you will receive from us anyway. Since the question of this definition is really a matter of the common agricultural policy, it seems logical to me to include the answer to that question in that letter. The final point. Thank you for the effort you have made on this dossier, but I would like to say that it is my people who have done a great deal about it. We have also appointed a special, so to speak, "chef mice." Of course, he too has done a lot. I see Mr Graus pointing to the dg in the civil servants' bank, but no, the 'chef mice' is not the dg. Mr Graus thought: we have a new nickname, but no, bad luck. That's not true. He has played an important role, by the way, but he has always played an important role in this dossier. The Room knows that. I would also like to pass on the warm support from the Chamber to my people, because that is certainly very much in place on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u8	As far as we were aware, at the time of the mouse plague, that exemption from Europe was not granted. If, however, no exemption has been granted, then the Secretary of State must agree with me that there is an illegal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u9	I will return to that in writing too, but to my knowledge we have done so through an exemption for the granting of an investigation and we have done so. In order to be a service to the Chamber, this is of interest to me, too, in the same report. Then there can be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u10	Then I would very much like to have a ruling on that before the votes. This motion will be put to the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u11	I cannot agree to that if it is to be included in that letter, because on Tuesday the Agriculture Council will only be here. Of course, the report of the Agriculture Council, which will take place on Tuesday, cannot be with the Chamber before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u12	I suppose the government knows whether there was an exemption at the time of the use of the CO or not? We do not have to wait for that from the Agriculture Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u13	No, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll have to send a separate letter to the Chamber. I always try to narrow that down myself. Moreover, I hope that this letter will not change the judgment on the Thieme motion either, at least not for my part. If that's necessary, we'll just send this piece of text to the Chamber earlier. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u14	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u15	That will be an extra letter for the huge pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u16	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday, as has just been changed.
