ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	Madam President. In the final stage of the election campaign, the VWS Minister comes up with a very absurd statement. In De Telegraaf last Saturday she said: "The campaign started and then we got the Mark Verheijen affair, then the case around the Vecht Foundation and then a receipt, which meant that two VVD executives had to resign." According to the Minister, "it's no coincidence that incidents are now emerging." So it's not a coincidence, but what exactly does that prove? In the interview, the Minister continues in a somewhat bewitching tone: "people have kept things." Yesterday it was announced that the Public Prosecutor has imposed a fine on ex-Camera member Houwers for fraud. I would also mention the conviction of former Deputy Hooijmaijers and the recent criminal case of a VVD leader in Founding Fight. Does Minister Schippers now say with her claims that the Public Prosecutor and the judges with justice have waited in these cases until the VVD campaign has begun? On the Teevendeal, this minister says: "If a receipt from 15 years ago appears a week before the elections, then my conclusion is that it does not happen for nothing now." There would be forces behind it, the underworld, justice, the law. But then I repeat former Secretary of State Bitch: "Proclaiming is proof." Secretary of State Dijksma also said it very strikingly in Tros Kamerbreed: "The moment you make suggestions that there would be a question of guilt, you must be able to prove it and that evidence is not there." Hence three questions: 1. Where does Minister Schippers base it that it is no coincidence that incidents are now emerging? 2. Who exactly, according to this Minister, are responsible for the many incidents? Aren't the culprits of those incidents themselves the source of all the misery? 3. Who exactly, according to this minister, have withheld things from this campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport for her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. You have two things. You've got bad incidents popping up in a political party, and you've got the Cees H case. My comments on timing and on not being coincidental relate to the case of Cees H. A 15-year-old case pops up one year ago, right before the election. It then reappears just before the current elections. Meanwhile, I read various suggestions in the media about who might be behind them. There are very good investigative journalists on this and as usual they always bring out good things. For example, Vrij Nederland says: "If the minister stumbles, he is initially mainly lightened by the criminal environment." But also old D.A. Vrakking says: "The underworld plays a role here." I have read other good articles which refer to other parties. I said, I'm not accusing anyone at all, because I don't know who did it. That is why it is a good thing that research is taking place. That investigation has also been widely proposed by your Chamber. Among other things, the Prime Minister added alleged leaks from the Ministry of Security and Justice. This is, of course, the main issue on the deal itself, but it takes these aspects into account, which I find everywhere in articles. I am therefore concerned with the timing of the Cees H case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	The black magic that the minister threw up in De Telegraaf last Saturday, disappears here a bit like snow for the sun. In De Telegraaf she really said: "I describe that it is no coincidence that incidents are now emerging." A whole chain of incidents was associated with this. It is very sensible to congratulate this Minister for saying that the whole chain thinking, the whole conspiracy theory, is actually gone, because there is no evidence of that. I would like to thank this Minister for that, although I would have liked it more if she had not made those statements. What remains, if I understand the Minister correctly, is the issue of Cees H. I have two questions about this, because of course the whole issue would not have played if all the information had come up in the last 15 years. Does the Minister agree with me? In other words, if that receipt or the evidence for it had been digged up much earlier by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in other words: if then Minister Opstelten had done much better research a year ago, we would not have been standing here with some kind of conspiracy theory. Because of this minister, there remains the suggestion in the air that there are dark forces playing when it comes to the case of Cees H.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	This will be your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'd like to know from the minister who these dark forces are. Are they lawyers or judges? Is it the D.A.'s office? Are they the media or are they officials of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	I never said the word "conspiracy." The article is about incidents within the party. That's what goes on in the Cees H case. I have already been clear about incidents within a party before the article. If bad incidents occur within a political party, there is only one thing you can do: figure them out well and draw consequences. That's exactly what the party does. But what matters most to me is the case of Cees H. I also indicated in De Telegraaf that this is my main concern. I said that the timing is unlikely. It is unlikely that, after 15 years, it will spontaneously emerge twice in an election campaign. I put my finger on that. I have made it very clear that it is unlikely that it will pop up this way. If you follow that from some distance and you read about all kinds of valid pieces in the media, you think: a lot of suggestions are being made. You can't leave those suggestions hanging. They're too heavy for that. For example, if it is suggested that the underworld plays a role in it, you can only find out. Other suggestions have also been made, for example that there has been leaked by the Ministry or the State's Attorney's Office. I think it's important that we find out. That's what I said, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Van Nispen has an interruption. No, Mr Schouw, I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	I had 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, no, no, no. You had 30 seconds past your time. I call Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	Here's what I want to say to the Minister. If you don't want something to be revealed, you have to make sure there's nothing to reveal. On the case of Cees H., the Minister says: it could be that the underworld is behind it. The legal profession and the media have also been mentioned. The accusing finger went to everyone last Saturday, if the Minister's quotes are correct. Surely it can't be that the investigation is going to focus on the one who brought the truth to the table? Surely the investigation can't focus on the whistleblower or whatever when it comes to the truth? Is the Minister aware that the last time it came out in election time, that was mainly due to the Ministry? That would have taken a month to reply to the Nieuwsuur programme. Is the Minister familiar with that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	It's the timing that matters to me. The media is just my source. I didn't designate the media at all. I read different things in the media. I've gathered all these pieces. In the meantime, I have a thick dossier showing where suggestions are made in the media about the role of the underworld in terms of timing and the role of leakages. The Prime Minister has spoken of alleged leakages. Let's find out. I didn't accuse anyone. I have made a number of suggestions that I have been able to distill from the pieces I collect in the media. I think this is serious enough to actually pick it up. You have two things: the case and the timing. The case is one thing in itself, but you also have two important election campaigns. An old case pops up in there twice in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	No, because Mr. Van Raak...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	I'm also concerned about timing. I had asked if the minister was aware of the fact that it was Nieuwsuur that a month before... and that it was up to the ministry...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	That is what the Minister is going to take into account in her next reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	Very liberal, but just for the record: is it just a little thing of timing now? The Minister states that it is timing, because it raised the municipal elections in the previous elections. Now it's popping up again. Isn't that the problem, much more than the timing you set with third parties, the timing at your own ministry, at the cabinet, when it comes to providing information to this Chamber? So that timing could have taken place much earlier, for example immediately after last year's municipal elections. Of course, the whole problem would not have been there and we would have been able to tear everything apart and let it come forward, but that information problem would never have come forward. So as far as timing is concerned, the Minister should not point to the wrong side, but to his own side, the cabinet, which should have ensured that that timing was not at all at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	I ask the Minister: please include in your answer the answer to the question on Nieuwsuur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have taken note of Nieuwsuur, in which it was said: we have just waited a month. Such an investigation would prove that. I've seen that reaction. I didn't come up with these things myself, and that's exactly what I'm reacting to. There are two things. One is that you see a 15-year-old case pop up twice. Of course, if everything goes well in a case, nothing poops on it and you don't have a case. That's the one and I'm unplugging it, too. What matters to me is that 15 years after this new information comes out at one election and the information about a screen print, a receipt or whatever it is called, exactly in the other election. That's all I care about. I think that's too much of a coincidence. I indicated that, and I think it is important, especially given the documents that are written about it further, that you should find out more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u20	It's not about "coincidence." If it were a coincidence, we wouldn't have a problem here. It is about the follow-up, which is that the Minister says that it has been a deliberate action by third parties to make this pop up, which is not a coincidence. But the basis of this is, of course, much earlier, namely that the entire ministry could have been turned upside down for screenshots, receipts and so on, to prevent that situation from happening at all. Shouldn't the Minister be putting his hand in his own bosom at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u21	No, Mr President, that in the end information has emerged which has proved to be incorrect prior information given to the Chamber, political consequences have been drawn from that by the Minister of Justice and his Secretary of State. I respect that. I'm talking about two things. You got the case, but what matters to me is the timing of this. It seems too coincidental to me that we are getting something like this in the middle of the campaign twice in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u22	If I had asked the Minister at Buitenhof last Sunday a question, but it will probably never come to that, I would have asked: what do you really think is worse, that it has been leaked or that it has remained secret for so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u23	It's okay, when things happen as they happen, that clarity comes about and things come up. This is a completely different question. The question is: in this case did either the D.A. or V and J leak or send, or did the underworld do so? I read a lot about that in the media, from investigative journalists. They do their job there and they're serious media. It's not like you say: it's someone who only writes a bit of a blog somewhere left or right. They're well researched things and they're very serious. The suggestions made are also very serious. They have everything to do with that timing. I have said that this is why I believe that it should be properly sorted out. Your Chamber has announced an investigation into the matter and it is important to include this in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u24	I'll try some other words. Does the Minister agree with me that it is a good thing that this has been leaked or has come out or that there is a clock sound or whatever you want to call it? I haven't heard a member of the cabinet say, "It's okay. How it went, okay, we'll figure that out, but that's what happened, that's what I'm really happy about." I would have liked the Minister to say that. Is she prepared to say here: I am glad that it has finally come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u25	That's where I started my answer. If things go public as they have gone, it is good that we have it out in the open, that is what I said. That wasn't the point I made at all. To be honest, I would have liked that screen print to have been known immediately at Justice, so that the Minister of Justice could have reported it immediately. That's not my point. That is the case and you have to distinguish it from how things turned out in terms of timing. I didn't say much more than I think it's too much of a coincidence that attention is being paid to this now, especially in view of the articles I read about it from serious journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u26	I'll come back on the timeline. The broad opposition has been active since March 2014, through written questions and through the request of debates, in order to raise this matter in this Chamber. That is constantly blocked by the coalition, so don't let the minister arrive with a timeline and it is quite a coincidence that this just came up in this election time. It could have been much sooner if the coalition had once faced the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u27	My comment was that I find the timing of popping up that information quite coincidental, twice in the middle of a campaign, on a case that is 15 years old. I also said that I am pleased that it is being examined, partly in view of the articles that have been written about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u28	I understand that it is not a coincidence that we are discussing this issue today. It is a subject that plays a role in the election campaign. I also understand that people from the VVD and other parties are making comments about this, as this Minister has done. Now that we are discussing it so extensively in Question Time, and I have heard a Minister who has been called to the Chamber say that a large file has been built up by her, meticulously, and I would like to ask a question. The file you keep, Minister, is it in the field of health, welfare or sport?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u29	That's a tricky question. I am being asked about the Chamber in relation to statements I made as a politician in a campaign about more than public health. We can agree that as a politician, I can only talk about public health. If I am asked more broadly for my opinion and I give it, and I am then called to the Chamber to answer for my opinion, I also find it faint to say: I am Minister of Health, so I am not answering it. I'll stand for what I find. I think this is quite a coincidence, and I think that I should be allowed to say to Members here in the Chamber why I think that is a very coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u30	I myself saw Minister Schippers' remarks last Saturday as a little clumsy rubbing in a stain. Something else matters to me. Contrary to what the cabinet proposed here last week through the Prime Minister, the Chamber has called for an independent investigation. That is what we will be voting on this afternoon. It is a motion that I have been able to table myself, with broad support. I'm assuming that motion is gonna make it. Can we assume, I would ask the Minister, that if this independent investigation is launched and will be carried out, we will not be bothered again with directors who make suggestions themselves or increase suggestions made in the media? Can we assume that there can really be independent research, which not everyone is going to run for? Will this minister also keep her mouth shut?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u31	I think it would be very good to conduct an independent investigation into this whole matter. We are all very curious about the results that that research will bring to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u32	I asked if from now on this Minister would keep her mouth shut on this subject, so that the independent investigation could simply be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-4.u33	It is very common that we do not talk about an ongoing investigation.
