ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week, Europe was hit by brutal terror with the attacks in Paris. At the same time, in Nigeria, the jihadist terrorist movement Boko Haram also carried out another attack. Boko Haram is systematically working on the formation of a caliphate and currently controls an area as large as Belgium. An attack by Boko Haram in the border town of Baga made the news, because many people died, hundreds. Amnesty International even talks about the possible 2,000 civilian deaths: children, women and the elderly. Attacks and kidnappings are the order of the day in northeast Nigeria. Last week, from the SGP Group, we visited the area and met many people who are witnessing the suffering. Radiant fathers and mothers never saw their abducted daughters come back. We stood by a mass grave and saw the suffering of people who lost their relatives. In short, they are poignant stories of death and destruction that are sown by Boko Haram. We never want and should never get used to it. We have promised these people: we will not forget you and continue to draw attention to this in the Netherlands. That is why I have three questions for the Minister. Firstly, to what extent is there a coherent fight against jihadist terrorism? You can fight terror not only in Paris or Amsterdam, but not only in Syria and Iraq. For example, we heard from ex-Boko Haram fighters that they were trained in camps in Saudi Arabia. Is there a coherent approach? Secondly, what opportunities does the Minister see for calling on the Nigerian authorities to take on their responsibilities to better protect citizens from terrorism? They fail too often. What additional support can be given to preventing and combating terrorism in Nigeria? Finally, it is also a humanitarian disaster. More than 1.5 million people are on the run. There are many traumatized women and children. What help can and will the Netherlands and the European Union provide in meeting these humanitarian needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. As I did publicly last week, first of all, on behalf of the Dutch Government in the Chamber today, I would like to express my horror and concern about the massacres and the actions of the terrorist organisation Boko Haram. As Mr Van der Staaij has said, these have not only been done by Boko Haram in recent days, but have already been done in recent months. Recently this was mainly in Baga. Hundreds of people have died in that region in recent years. The cruelty seems to be surpassed every day. We sympathise with those involved and the relatives and the Dutch Government strongly condemns this attack once again. Mr Van der Staaij is right when he says that we cannot and cannot ignore this attack. The attack has resulted in many people being killed or seriously injured, regardless of their religion. People of different religions have died. The worst fate is borne by the Christians in Northern Nigeria, who have the choice between conversion or cruel death. The violence has displaced more than 1 million refugees. Boko Haram indeed controls an area so close to and around the size of Belgium. This is a serious situation which requires not only our condemnation but also our active policy. Of course, last week I expressed my condolences and concerns towards my Nigerian colleague. In this context, I would like to respond to the three elements raised by Mr Van der Staaij. Firstly, is there a coherent strategy on international terrorism? In a sense, yes, but to my taste and conviction not enough. The situation in Northern Nigeria is very closely linked to the situation in the Sahel, extending from a region in Mali to the east, Niger, Northern Nigeria, Cameroon and further east. There is more or less one area where the terrorist threat is rapidly expanding on the basis of feelings of marginalisation of the local population and then the import of weapons and Islamic ideologies. The only way to deal with this is in coherence. It is true that this coherence has been highlighted in a number of countries. I am thinking of the attention to be paid to this in the United Kingdom and the United States, but also to the attention to be paid to it in the UN Security Council. The second question concerned the Nigerian authority. I think it's important...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	Could you try to make it easier for me? You have only limited time to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Nigerian authorities have also been reminded by us once again of the need to combat this phenomenon in a coherent manner: both military, political and social. It is important that other countries in the region do the same. Mr President, this is rather complex, but I will answer as soon as possible; it is not a simple question. I think more can happen on that point, to reply briefly. I think that's necessary, too. The third question was about the humanitarian situation. The Netherlands currently provides around half a million aid, but there are also major projects by the European Union and the United Nations which are co-financed by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am pleased to hear him say that he shares the urgency of the situation. We noticed this earlier in his reaction. I am pleased that he says that the Dutch Government is prepared to take measures to promote an international, coherent approach to terrorism. After all, this fight against terror must be fought worldwide. In view of the question of what we can actually do now, I think, also on the basis of the experience of the work visit, that it is very important to keep pressure on the boiler. You saw that when the authorities kidnapped over 200 girls from Chibok who were on the news last year, they got more on their feet when international attention was paid to it. But then it was actually often too late. Then they didn't know where those kids were, but at first they did. International pressure can therefore help enormously. Hence the follow-up question as to what possibilities the minister sees from the Netherlands and internationally to keep the pressure on the kettle. Then there's something I'd like to say about the kidnappings. That also brings me to the humanitarian issue. Especially girls are victims of kidnapping because they go to school. Boko Haram doesn't want that. We talked to girls who escaped. Those are very brave women, but they still experience trauma and they can't go back to their village either. So the question is also: what opportunities does the Netherlands see within Europe to offer such girls aftercare and scholarships? These are questions that go too far to be discussed in the context of this Question Time, but I would like to hear a reply from the Minister. Perhaps he is prepared to go into the various parts I have just mentioned in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think, firstly, that the issue of pressure is extremely important. It requires real pressure on the Nigerian authorities to effectively combat the problem, to take care of the people who have to flee and to create a more structural solution. I would be happy to explain this in a letter. I am pleased that you are asking for this, and I do not think that there is sufficient attention to it now. We are the only country in the European Union to pay attention to this next week. I myself will go to the African Union summit to share this issue and I am very willing to look at what we can do on a number of points, including the issue of psychosocial support, which the Netherlands is already giving some help to, from the Netherlands or the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	I would like to know from the Minister whether he understands that the violent action of the Boko Haram stems from the violent ideology of Islam. Or does this action, as the Minister sees it, have nothing to do with Islam, as the government has already said about the action of IS and the attacks in Paris?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	Boko Haram's activities have nothing to do with Islam. It has something to do with it because the organization relies on Islam; that is apparently their interpretation of Islam. That is not a dominant view in Nigeria or in West Africa, where there is a very conservative and tolerant Islam. It is an exception there and in that sense it is also being debated in Islamic circles in West Africa. At the same time, the biggest problem is that you see a lot in countries like this where part of the population is marginalized, that it's just criminal gangs who show off with movements elsewhere from a kind of copycat behavior, in which one finds inspiration or with which one thinks one can mobilise others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr De Roon, you have a second question? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	I didn't actually ask how it was understood by all kinds of Muslims. My question was: does it have anything to do with the violent ideology of Islam?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	The term "ideology of Islam" is not mine. Islam is a religion and since people rely on it, it has something to do with it; of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you to Mr Van der Staaij, who travelled to Nigeria to report on the atrocities that are taking place there. Thank you also to the Minister, who responded adequately to this last week. I would like to ask him to comment in his letter on what action from the Netherlands could be concrete towards the EU and the UN in order to contribute to reducing violence against those minorities. These are not only the Christians, who have the hardest to lead, also Muslims come to the north of Nigeria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	Sure. I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u14	The terrible events in Paris last week had almost blinded us to the atrocities committed by the Boko Haram in the name of Islam in Nigeria. We are talking about this today with thanks to Mr Van der Staaij. The EU President spoke about the importance of regional integration and the Security Council would also have mentioned this. I am not aware that a resolution is being prepared. Is it to be expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u15	Of course, the United Nations is involved and the Security Council is involved, but as far as I know there is no mention of a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u16	A second question for the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u17	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u18	This recent wave of acts of terror began with the expulsion of an international peacekeeping force, consisting of a number of African countries, located in this area. My question to the Minister is: is it not of the utmost importance that the international peacekeeping force, which was apparently already there but was chased away by Boko Haram, can be reinstalled in the area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u19	This international force was indeed a joint task force of a number of countries: Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon, which cooperated in the fight against crime in this area. When Boko Haram became stronger, they focused on it. We must note that this cooperation is moderate and that there are regular tensions between these countries. Sometimes requests from Nigeria to act in a certain way, whether legitimate or not, are not met. In the past period, this task force may not have worked sufficiently to cope effectively with the problem. In addition, the ECOWAS, West African security cooperation, is currently not very effective in that area in military terms, also because it already has a large number of other crises to deal with in that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u20	I would like to draw the parallel with the way ISIS works and the measures we are taking against that terrorist group. Not only are we looking at how to combat it in military terms, but also how to ensure that ISIS can use its financial supporters and financial resources as little as possible. Does the Minister see the possibility of putting as much emphasis on the financial resources of this group as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u21	With all due respect, I should think about that. My impression is that Boko Haram's income consists mainly of what is being robbed and what is being stolen from the people on the spot. That is one of the reasons why they are doing this. There could be other connections. I should check that out. If there is information on this, I am very willing to share it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u22	The Minister has a lot on his mind, but in recent years he has become a bit of a West African himself. That is why I am asking whether he is not in a position to play a more proactive role from Europe in proposing solutions. He knows the region. In West Africa there was always an enlightened form of Islam. It's very sad that it went this way. He may not have the key to the solution, but, as Norway has often done in the past, he has a position to contribute proactively to solutions. Is the Nigerian government interested in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u23	In any case, I share Mr Smaling's interest in West Africa. He's a very great connoisseur of that. We want to see what the Netherlands and the European Union can do. I would like to say straight away that, at a time of elections, Nigeria is not really waiting for mediation or aid from Western countries. This does not alter the fact that at the same time a certain amount of pressure has to be applied in that combination. I would like to investigate whether another role can be played there. However, I believe that international support for regional organisations would be the most effective. In itself, no option is excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u24	I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for having put this issue on the agenda through his visit and these questions. I can imagine that after the letter requested we will come back to it in greater detail. In such cases, the tendency is to immediately see what we can do ourselves. Nigeria's armed forces consist of no less than 130,000 men and are known for the good role they often play in other crisis areas. My estimate is that you should first see what the Nigerians can do. What is the Minister's response to this? I have to be careful because before you know it, you have lost your second question: how can we increase the pressure on Nigeria in the run-up to the elections of 14 February 2015 so that people do what is necessary, something that Cameroon does seem to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u25	The responsibility lies first and foremost with the Nigerian Government and authorities to solve this complex problem. Nigeria is not a poor country. While oil prices have fallen, Nigeria still has substantial oil revenues. Nigeria also has an army. That army must function properly, be well paid, and it must lead to actions that are effective. There would probably be the best form of cooperation and not so much in others who choose to solve it for the Nigerians. That would probably not be acceptable, but it would not be effective either. I think I am looking more in the direction that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also pointed out: by looking in a regional context to see if there are specific elements where a Nigerian or a regional solution could work. The pressure's bothering me. I have to admit that. Precisely because there are elections in Nigeria now, I have the impression that it is very quickly felt that criticism of Nigeria always points to one or the other electoral candidate. I don't think we should care much about that. We simply need to share our international responsibility for protecting people with Nigeria how we can contribute to a solution. I'll be sure to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you for your answers and thank you for coming to the Chamber.
