ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u1	Mr. Chairman. Our group is disappointed with the decision to remove the KMS from Weert and thus close the last barracks in Limburg. On 19 December the flag was ironed at the Van Horne Kazerne. After more than sixty years the KMS disappeared from Limburg. That's a black page. I have already said this in general consultation. This is also recognised as such by the College of B and W van Weert. Several rescue attempts in this Chamber have done nothing. Nor do I have the illusion that we can destroy that. It's a matter of making choices. In the past, choices have also been made that can move in a different direction. Think of the barracks in Assen and Rotterdam. This pain in the region is felt. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet should make a gesture in this respect, also towards Weert, to enable new development opportunities for the KMS site. To that end, I would like to table a motion, along with Mrs Hachchi. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has decided to move the KMS from Weert;]] [[Whereas the Government established a new naval station in the province of Zeeland and came back to previous decisions to close barracks in Rotterdam and Assen;]] [[noting that despite efforts by the province of Limburg and the municipality of Weert to maintain the KMS for Weert and their willingness to contribute to the costs, the government has maintained its commitment to the closure of the Van Hornekazerne;]] [[Whereas, at the closure of Twenthe Air Force Base in 2003, the Chamber of Commerce (29200-X, No. 37), in which the government was asked to contribute to the achievement of a new perspective for the region of Twente;]] [[Whereas the municipality of Weert itself has already made various efforts to find a solution for the maintenance of the former KMS site and the use of existing facilities;]] [[calls on the Government, in its capacity to contribute to the realisation of a new perspective for the region of Weert, together with the municipality of Weert and the province of Limburg, to consider how the Empire can contribute to the development and use of the former KMS area and to consider this as a cabinet-wide responsibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Hachchi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33763-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. As I said in the debate, the real estate of Defense remains a difficult story, especially in view of the political wish lists, but especially if there is no strategic plan. D66 awaits the Minister's strategic real estate plan. I'll be at the barracks in Weert. As Mr Knops has just said, the Minister has previously decided to close it, despite the efforts of the municipality of Weert and the province of Limburg to maintain the barracks and their willingness to pay with it. They are now making every effort to give that barracks a new destination. D66, together with the CDA, asks the cabinet and in particular this minister to do the utmost to help the Limburgers. No one benefits from an empty barracks. That is why I tabled the motion together with Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u3	This has put an end to the Chamber's term. The Minister now has the motion before him. She's getting up. This means that she can react directly to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. The motion doesn't come as a surprise, of course, because we've talked about this before during the AO Real Estate Defence. I fully understand the emotion that exists in the Weert region about closing the KMS and its relocation from Weert. To this end, my predecessor, who is well-known to the Chamber, has decided. He's looked at other possibilities. I did, too. This has always been done in close cooperation with the region. Unfortunately, we have found that there were no good alternatives. That is why we have had to continue the relocation of the KMS, as decided by my predecessor. The good news is that Mr Blok and I are in good contact with the region. I spoke yesterday with the mayor and Mr Blok was in Weert last week, and that we have all the signals on the green in order to give further details in good cooperation and harmony to the future of the former KMS site. I consider that to be my responsibility, as I see it with regard to other real estate trajectories that are running. It must be clear, however, that I cannot hand out gifts at the expense of the taxpayer, not even in the context of the elections. We do what we can to achieve a good result together with Weert. Actually, I'd like to leave it at that. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u5	Frankly, I don't understand what the Minister is saying. She says she can't hand out gifts, especially in the context of elections. Frankly, I wouldn't know what the elections are going to do with this. This has been going on for a long time. The Minister has rightly said that there has been a change of approach on operational grounds, even by her predecessor in office. That's true. We have always been critical of this. We're in a very different phase now. The question is this: how can we ensure that the barracks are not left empty and that a solution is sought together with the region, as happened at the time in Twente, and as in Rotterdam and Assen, for example, was looked at customization and solutions? So I think it is simply a task for the Minister to contribute to this kind of solution, as is also stated in the operative part of this motion. I really don't understand why this motion, I could have made other motions in this way and with this justification the Minister is not advised. I challenge her to look at this motion with a different pair of glasses in the context of the President's new glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u6	I like to be challenged by Mr Knops. And the chairman does have nice new glasses. The reality is that Defense left the barracks last year and handed it over to the National Real Estate Company. That's what we talked about. Let me repeat once again: the National Real Estate Company (RVB) and the Defence Department, as far as they are concerned from the past, are in good conversation with Weert about the destination of the barracks and their sale. As I said, contacts at political, administrative and administrative level are correct, complete and good. I spoke to the mayor yesterday. It should be made clear that the National Real Estate Company always takes local needs into account when disposing of real estate. There's no way we're going ice cream in one night. There is no such thing as "the Empire is getting its way or getting its way here." It is done in close consultation with the region. In determining the selling price, the RVB will also take into account the future destination. We all have an interest in that, too. At such a high demand price one will eventually remain stuck with the terrain. Weert isn't waiting for that, but the Empire certainly isn't waiting for that. It would then be a damage to us. In short, if the motion says that the government is being asked to make a contribution from the Empire according to its assets, I will translate that as a possible financial contribution anyway. Then you're going to look at gifts that are distributed at taxpayers' expense and you're going to move around in a very shady area, namely the granting of state aid. I repeat what I said earlier: there is very good talk with the region, we are all very secure in that and together we are ensuring a good destination for the former barracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u7	I still find it strange that gifts and state aid are being discussed in a situation where the Empire withdraws from certain regions, in this case from a region where there is no more barracks. I have mentioned a number of examples of cases in which the government has also been involved in the past. It does not say here that there should be large quantities of money in Limburg, because I know that the Minister would not advise it anyway. However, it is stated that, for example, the valuation value is determined by reference to future uses. Then it is not maximized on a theoretical real estate value, but it takes into account that a good initial investment can also be made, which can continue to bear fruit in a healthy operation. So you shouldn't have any uneconomic summits and stuff like that. It's in the operative part. I've heard the Minister say that kind of thing. However, it comes to the conclusion that the motion must be discouraged. It would be an important signal, also from the Chamber, if this motion were to receive broad support, because it is a region which, as has been said, has seen the last barracks disappear. They don't ask for bags of money, but they ask for help. This also means that a real price is required for the sale.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u8	I didn't react immediately. Excuse me. I was listening carefully. Much of what Mr Knops says, I have said more or less, but in other words. This means that I do not need the motion as such to do what I have to do, namely to work well with Weert in order to achieve an exceptionally good destination for the former barracks. Therefore, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u9	It is precisely because of the words of the Minister, who just repeated them, that it would be much more obvious for the Minister to leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. I listened very carefully to the Minister. I am also trying to build a bridge between the Minister and Mr Knops. I tried that during the debate, and I'm trying again now. The wording in the motion has been carefully chosen. There is no request for gifts, but it is extremely important that they get that support, that they are watched. Those are exactly the words the Minister also uses. That is why I appeal to the Minister to change her advice to "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u10	It is extremely thoughtful that Mrs Hachchi wants to build a bridge between me and Mr Knops, but that bridge is there, you know, and we sometimes cross it. I repeat, however, that I consider the motion to be superfluous and therefore to be dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-12-tweedekamer-10.u11	The vote on the motion will take place next Tuesday afternoon.
