ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u1	We have already heard Mr Van Dijck's contribution. He just yelled, "We don't want that." Seven participants from the Chamber have registered for this debate. They have two minutes' speaking time. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. Who would have thought, the last debate of the year, and the country wants to maintain the blue envelope. However, this has a very serious undertone, because the envelope is not abolished because there are no more taxes, but because everyone would be behind the computer, which is not the case. The State Secretary writes that the final decision increases in 2015 will only be sent from the second quarter of 2016. That makes sense, because the Tax Administration does not yet have the income data for 2015 at all; we hope to report before April. This is different with the final decision on surcharges over the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. It seems that they will only be sent digitally from 1 January 2016. Is that right? Following the digital decision, there will only be a letter if there is a proposal for a payment scheme. That's not a solution. That mainly leads to red-hot phones at the Tax Phone, because you have to pay, when you don't know why. How long will the Secretary of State send the payment scheme by post? Also not answered is the question of how to monitor or read messages. If only 2 million out of 12 million people have a message box, 10 million out of 12 million people do not. Some people will still see messages on My surcharges, but most electronic mail ends up in a total vacuum. More than half to three-quarters of the messages don't even have a destination. You shouldn't want to do that, especially if the National Ombudsman is still investigating. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to send final determinations of surcharges digitally only from 2016 onwards;]] [[noting that almost no one was aware of the fact that two years ago a transitional period began and that only a small proportion of taxpayers and payment recipients activated the message box;]] [[noting that the National Ombudsman has launched an investigation into the abolition of the blue envelope;]] [[Calls on the Government, in the first half of 2016, to continue sending the final decisions on surcharges by post;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court in May of the state of play regarding the electronic message box, the Ombudsman's investigation and whether, under certain criteria, it is appropriate to send final decisions only electronically,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34196-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u3	Finally. What are the gross figures for those who can expect a post-tax as a result of the Pechtold tax? That question hasn't been answered. Let me now look at the D66 Group. The extra novel makes it necessary to change all the numbers in the payroll administration, while they are very small amounts. This includes a gross figure for the people who receive a post-tax. The Secretary of State had promised to pass on that gross figure, but that has not yet happened. We'd like to receive that number. Mr President, my time has passed, otherwise I could have told you that we are still getting quite a few error messages about the operation of the message box. If the Secretary of State can correct that, the people who do do what the Secretary of State wants can at least work with their message box...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u5	... because if you manage the tax for different people via e-mail, including for your children or your grandfather, you have to open all the mailboxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u6	Mr Omtzigt continues to talk. It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr. Chairman. The letter from the Secretary of State that is the reason for this VSO is a good step towards dealing with people who are not quite in the computer age yet. When I read about the provisional decision and the advance payments for the surcharges, I still feel that there should also be room for people who really cannot go digital and who have not seen the warning from a few years ago just like me. Should we not respond to them, by ensuring that paper can still be used? It is good that 97% of the people are already doing the income tax return digitally, but steps still need to be taken. I'd like some customization with the surcharges, at least for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u8	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the words of Mrs Neppérus, who thinks that the Secretary of State is running too fast, because then she will probably support my motion. The government is there for the citizen, not the other way around. It seems that the Secretary of State is trying to push the digitalization of taxes down the throat: digital because it has to, and not because it can. At the same time, the Secretary of State says that the introduction must be justified and that people should not be excluded. People who aren't ready are unlucky and have to seek help, as the letter says. That's not how you treat taxpayers. As far as PVV is concerned, the blue envelope should remain available to anyone who wants it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government has engaged in fully digital communication between Tax Administration and citizens;]] [[Whereas the introduction should be carried out in a responsible manner;]] [[Whereas there are always people who prefer to continue receiving a blue envelope, including a large group of older people;]] [[calls on the government to create the possibility for taxpayers to continue to opt for the blue envelope in addition to the digital coverage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34196-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u9	Mr. Chairman. The disappearance of the blue envelope is a major change. My group shares the dot on the horizon of the Secretary of State. Eventually digital communication is the future, but this transition must be designed with the utmost care. My group therefore considers it excellent that the National Ombudsman should watch and conduct an investigation. In the transition phase, tailor-made solutions are crucial. The possibility for citizens for whom there is no other solution than a paper copy, for example for the 2016 advance decision, is a good example. I do have a few more questions. In his letter, the Secretary of State does not specify how long this solution will remain available. Mr Omtzigt tabled a motion on this subject, in which he has already mentioned a certain period of time. My question to the Secretary of State is at all how long this solution will remain available. If that is not yet known, will the Chamber be included in these choices, especially if vulnerable groups are no longer given a tailor-made option? The Ombudsman was right to ask about the scripts of the Tax Phone regarding the possibility of receiving a paper copy. What's done with that? There is an important role for the House of Representatives to carefully monitor this transition. I assume that the Secretary of State will continue to send the frequency and quality of the information on the transition to the Chamber. My group welcomes the Secretary of State's offer in the letter to have a technical briefing organised by the Tax Office so that the Chamber knows what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u10	I see there will be no motion. That's too bad. Mr Van Weyenberg talks about customisation, but I read in the same letter that there are people asking for a blue envelope, but they are rejected because they have a computer at home and can therefore receive it digitally. There are also people who, from a privacy point of view, are also something that D66 stands for, and do not want that data to go on the digital highway. They want to continue receiving the blue envelope and doing it manually. What does D66 say to these people as a privacy guru?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u11	Now, in this last debate, I am also elevated to guru. The day is getting better and better. I didn't ask the Secretary of State about the scripts for nothing when it comes to customization and when it's allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u12	The letter makes it very clear that customisation is rejected in many cases. You really need to be able to prove that you're 70-plus and digibeet and that you don't have a computer, no close family and no neighbors. Then you can apply customization. I point to privacy considerations. You have a computer and you want it digitally. You, Mr Van Weyenberg, want to maintain that blue envelope. You can't do that right now. Do you think this should be possible or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u13	I believe that digital communication in itself is absolutely the future. That should always be safe, by the way. My question was about the group that really can't do it and that has magical reasons for it. How does the Tax Administration deal with this and is that not too strict in practice? That is exactly the question I have just asked the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u14	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of people who do not have a computer and therefore cannot communicate digitally with the government via the digital highway. The Secretary of State has now said he wants to meet those people. He's gonna keep the paper blue envelopes. The problem remains, however, that these people must argue before the Tax Administration why they choose to continue to make a paper declaration. They must then indicate that they do not have a computer, that they do not have friends and that they cannot. I think that's way out of line. People should just be able to call the tax authorities and say they want to communicate with the tax authorities on paper. And that just needs to be honored by the IRS. The tax authorities should not ask whether they have friends, acquaintances or anyone else who can handle a computer. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Tax Administration has already been called 120,000 times about the disappearance of the blue envelope;]] [[Whereas 15,000 people have already received a paper advance decision because they are not digitally skilled and cannot receive assistance from their surroundings;]] [[calls on the Government to provide paper copies to anyone who indicates not to be able to communicate digitally with the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34196-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u15	Finally, I have a question concerning the last paragraph of the report on written consultation. In that statement, the Secretary of State states that he will consult with the Chamber in advance if message flows will only be done digitally. The summary does not mention the attack. If the Chamber is consulted before new messages are only done in a digital way, I assume that this is about everything. I shall therefore not table a motion on this point. I think that the Secretary of State has only forgotten to put the word 'attack' in the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u16	We dealt with a bill in this Chamber at the end of June. That bill was about abolishing the blue envelope. That law was only necessary for one thing. The law was not necessary to make it possible to make electronic returns more often, because it was possible without law. The law was necessary to make the electronic declaration and electronic papers mandatory and thus to eliminate the flow of paper. The PVV colleagues, who are now commenting, voted in favour of this bill. The same applies to colleagues from D66 and from the SP. Does the colleague of the SP now regret it? The Secretary of State must really be confused, because all these parties have voted in favour of this law, but are now putting forward motions to keep paper back to infinity. We agree with the latter. But why didn't they vote against the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u17	The SP is not against modernisation and not against digitisation. The bill made digitalization possible. I realize that a truck of blue envelopes is currently being sent to the IRS every day. That's a lot of blue envelopes that end up in the old paper and not being read. There are a lot of people who only want to communicate digitally with the Tax Administration. We therefore believe that people should be able to use it, if possible. We're in favour of modernisation. At the same time, we believe that the Secretary of State should make an exception for a limited group of people who want to communicate exclusively on paper. That was also at the heart of my contribution to the legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u18	The bill wasn't about the ability to send things electronically. Without a bill, that possibility could be used by anyone. For example, more than 90% already make an electronic declaration. But the bill introduced the obligation to do everything electronically. That's what the SP voted for. I'm glad the SP is getting away from that now. It is all introduced in no time. But let Mr Bashir honestly say that he should have voted against that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u19	This is where a strange picture of the bill is created. I think we've read several legislative proposals. I read in the bill that the Secretary of State is given the opportunity to continue to do everything on paper for certain target groups. That is also what the Secretary of State has now decided. People can indicate that they cannot communicate with the Tax Administration for any reason. We do not want it to be stated why people choose to do so. We want older people or people who don't have a computer to be able to make a phone call to the Tax Office to say that they want to continue receiving the blue envelope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u20	I say to Mr Omtzigt that I did not just table a motion, so his remark was factually incorrect. I also have a question for Mr Bashir. The bill on electronic messaging that the CDA voted for in the Senate is the same bill we are talking about today, or is that another bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u21	In the meantime, I'm also lost at the CDA. This is what they're for, and they're against it again. This also applies to D66. She was in favour of the Tax Plan and then she's against it again. I've kind of lost track of it. I think we're all ready for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u22	It's a clear discussion. I call Mr Van Vliet for his 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u23	Mr. Chairman. I was positive about the law from the beginning. Hence the next positive motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it is a good thing that the communication between the tax administration and taxpayers has been digitised by law;]] [[Whereas, in the absence of all this, reliable external assistance is necessary for such communications, a PC, Internet, digital skills or..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[Whereas there is always a group of people who cannot let someone in the immediate vicinity handle their business through a DigiD authorisation;]] [[Whereas the discussions so far do not guarantee 100% that these people can go to an office of the Tax Administration on the basis of written correspondence;]] [[calls on the Government, without reservation, to ensure that people who are demonstrably stuck in the system can continue to settle their affairs in writing with the Tax Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34196-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u24	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party supports the gradual transition to as much digital communication as possible by the Tax Administration, but people who cannot do so must be offered tailor-made solutions. That should also include a paper copy. I do not have a motion, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that the threshold for getting a paper copy of the Tax Office should not be too high. Can the Secretary of State promise that it will not be said to people who ask for it by telephone that only very exceptionally a paper copy is sent, but that it will be answered: yes, if you really want it, then it can be done? This is a relatively small group of people. The Secretary of State himself says in the written report that the mood of the people who call the Tax Phone quickly improves when they hear that they can still get a paper copy. I would like to hear some warm words from the Secretary of State on this. Is he willing to give such an instruction to the staff of the Tax Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u25	So much for the Chamber's term. Can the Secretary of State already reply to the four motions we have received on paper? The Secretary of State is going to answer immediately, and we appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u26	Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt was right, of course, that the whole bill would have been superfluous if we systematically honored the opt-out, but sometimes an opt-out is on the table. Mr Van Weyenberg spoke of a dot on the horizon. Of course, the Tax Administration is keen to use all human resources on control and service and not on envelopes. Most helpers are ultimately better off with digital, because they have digital questions. An overwhelming majority of people in need of fiscal assistance are people who find the system too complicated and do not come out of it. It's been for decades. These people benefit from digitalisation, because they can be helped remotely. They have everything at hand. Nothing is more searching and information and tips on how to do it, are available online. Those who sometimes walk around with the help of tax returns see people with grocery bags full of forms, often just missing one. It is possible, because 96% of Dutch households now have fast internet access. Three quarters of people over 65 years of age are on the web every day. The Danes are a bit our example. As many spokesmen here say, not everyone is always eager. In some people it causes anxiety and there are people who really have scares. There are also people who come forward and say: I know I have asked for help in tax matters so far, but the fact that I can't handle it myself if I want to, just gives me a feeling of lack of autonomy. Strikingly enough, a lot of questions arise about digital communication of people who have long been asking for help and are helped somewhere in the network, but who have gotten an unpleasant feeling. So this is something that can't be done overnight. That is important and it requires attention. There is also a statement by Mr Omtzigt which I certainly do not support, and that is that it is being introduced at 'no pace'. This is not introduced in any way in "no tempo." This is one step at a time. We expect the route to run until 2022. Now the advance decision supplements are digital. That's a non-critical stream. The final allocation of surcharges is still a critical current at the moment. If you do not agree with the final award, you have to respond to it within so much time. Strictly speaking, it is allowed according to the scheme, but that power does not yet take place digitally. It goes one step at a time. I have promised both Chambers that the success must first be proved in the things where time can be critical. In 2016, the number is not large in this respect. There's no rush. It is only about the final allocation of the surcharges, and only if we have made progress in activating the message box and if we can provide people with tailor-made services on the telephone or in other ways. The following messages will not arrive until 2017 and later. Yet there are people who need help. They're just... there's just... there's just... there's Of course, the Tax Administration has a very small amount of experience with that. Over the past decades, we have developed a huge infrastructure to help people in a variety of ways. So far, this has always been about the complex system. If we do not want to make people dependent on help, digital communication is not our main concern. Then the system is our greatest concern. Almost 80% of taxpayers already need some form of support without digital communication. The infrastructure is complicated. 125 payment service points and hundreds of organisations in the Netherlands are working to help people with their declaration. Hundreds! And yet that cannot be enough for people in a certain way, especially in the transitional phase. That is why we have said that customization is possible where there is no other way. That is, of course, always a bit of skipping, because if it is available to everyone on request and opt-out, Mr Omtzigt is right to ask why we made that law. So it's not mandatory, it's voluntary. But if we never do customization, it's gonna go wrong. And if the IRS loses its customers, the customers lose the IRS and then we have a big problem. By the way, the Tax Administration has a problem in the first instance. Let's establish that. So we can't do without customization. I am not entirely convinced that privacy is the reason, because the protection should be a lot better electronically than when it is thrown into an envelope in a mailbox. Especially in treportals, privacy is not guaranteed. So what's the rest of it? We're not in a flying hurry. We don't have a binding timetable. We'll take the next step as soon as that's justified. During that time, we will continue to deliver customization where it is really necessary. And yes, you have to ask for that once in a while because, again, if we were to offer everyone the possibility of customization, we might as well not have been able to make the law. Making customization for everyone just goes wrong. We're sure of it. Several questions have been asked about it. I believe that Mrs Neppérus was the first to use the magic word "suitable." I have heard Mr De Groot mention it as well. That's where it has to go. However, I cannot define when and when. We can't exactly unravel the phone script. The Tax Administration has now determined for 16,000 cases that, on the basis of the information provided, it can best be served with customization. This is not only in the interest of those who receive this customization, but it is also in the interest of the Tax Administration. As a result, we keep in touch with each other and the tax money is finally collected. I think I gave Mr Omtzigt an answer to his question on the final allocation of allowances for previous years. How long is that customization, in case it goes by post, still necessary? We're just gonna see that. Let us not link a golden end date to that now, because then perhaps we could be mistaken. Let's just reap the success if there is and wait a little longer if the success doesn't work out. That's the smartest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u27	The Secretary of State has confused me. In the letters and also in his introduction, in an intervening sentence, he says that in 2016 the year beginning in two weeks' time all final attacks will only be sent by electronic mail. They'll end up in your message box. But bear in mind, these are childcare allowances from the year 2012 which should have been decided long ago. This final decision may include, for example, that because your childcare institution was not recognised, you will have to repay everything, and: you will have to repay €5,000 in one go. Or it can say: it's €5 next to it. The latter will be settled, but when that first happens, it is a very important fact for a family. That is a time-critical message, as the Secretary of State says, because it has a major impact on family income and one wants to be able to object if one does not agree with it. Therefore, my request was mainly because previous years have often been problematic and because the Ombudsman is investigating the matter in order to continue with the post for a few months in those cases and to inform us about it in May. Then we can see if there are any accidents there. Otherwise, the Ombudsman will conclude that we have just moved forward. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u28	I think this is about Mr Omtzigt's motion. Shall I change the order creatively and go into the motion first? Is that the most convenient thing? If so, I'll take the motion. In my mind, the motion calls for two things. For example, in the first half of 2016, the government is invited to continue sending the final decisions on surcharges by post. Those are the older years and they can be several years. I have just tried to avoid the confusion by now saying that this is a good idea, because those are the time-critical things. There has indeed been some confusion in the reply. This confusion may also have been caused by the fact that the scheme states that the final award can already be digitally granted. But that really is only a success. We won't do that for the first six months. It's too time-critical. I say this to you. So I have no objection to that part of the motion. Thank you for the question, because that clarity existed. I would very much like to respond to the request to inform the Chamber in May of the state of play regarding the electronic messaging box. Then we have another tranche with the declarations, which means that many more people will activate the message box and DigiD. I am sure that we will also be discussing the Ombudsman's inquiry. And the question of whether final decisions are appropriate under certain criteria is precisely the key issue. I'd love to report on that. It is a pleasure for me to say this to Parliament and to report on it. This is also very important for the Tax Administration. I thank Mr Omtzigt for his question. Out of respect for the taxpayer, but also in the interests of the service, I leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u29	So you're leaving the verdict on this motion to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u30	Yes. I'm going to try to go back to the questions as far as I haven't answered them yet. I have it here that, according to Mr Omtzigt, the message box is a vacuum. At least that vacuum gets smaller at 100,000 a week, so that's pretty hard. I think the reporting period will speed that up, but that is exactly what we need to keep an eye on. Of course, there are other ways of looking at how you are in favour of taxation, but this is one of them. For the fancier I say that the app will be available. Mrs Neppérus has spoken the sacred code word. Mr Van Dijck has a motion. I have already replied to Mr Van Weyenberg's question on customisation. We're going to see how long that solution is available. At least as long as that is wise; that is really in everyone's interest. I have already promised to report to the Chamber in several ways when steps are taken. I even made promises about that in the First Chamber. I will also make it applicable to the House of Representatives. I think I can assume that the Tax Office briefing is about equal to the second part of Mr Omtzigt's motion. With this I try to talk these two important middle parties to each other. I shall now come to Mr Bashir's comments, as well as Mr Van Vliet's motions. I say to Mr Groot that, of course, we should not make that threshold too high. That is really crucial, otherwise we will lose people in this process. This is a transition phase, which will take quite a few years. In those years, we must keep everyone on board. It will not be quite "you ask, we turn" as in a restaurant, but neither did Mr Groot. So we are still trying to be sufficiently generous in a responsible way, to continue to serve people who otherwise appear to be in trouble during this transition period, of which I am not sure how long it will take.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u31	Very good. I would very much like to move on to the motions now, because we should not make this too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u32	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u33	A question about the Secretary of State's commitment to consult the Chamber in advance if new messages will only become digital. I had asked whether the word "attacks" could be included, so whether the Chamber would be informed in advance if they were only sent digitally. That is not in the list of messages sent by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u34	You're talking about the final attack on IB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u35	Indeed, the final attack on IB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u36	At least I promised in the First Chamber to do it on paper for at least two more years, but if that doesn't happen from 2017 or maybe even 2018, I'd like to let you know. That's important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u37	That's fine. In that case, I assume that this commitment actually applies to all messages. So if new messages, whatever, become digital only, the Secretary of State will consult with the Chamber first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u38	I believe there are about 8,000 different kinds of messages at a fine-meshed count. So let's not overdo this. At the request of the Chamber, I have made those commitments earlier, but I have defined them with a certain precision. I'm just gonna stick to that. I will include the commitment I have just made. Is this how it's gonna be? That way we can keep it a bit manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u39	The motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u40	That's right, the motions. The motions in part No. 23 and Item No. I think 24 are the same. The pure opt-out I really shouldn't recommend. For this, I propose the tailor-made description and commitment that I have just made, in place. In the motion in part No. 25 by Mr Van Vliet, without reservation, is requested to ensure that people who are found to be stuck can continue to settle their business in writing with the Tax Office. I sympathise with it, but the criteria can still be defined in such a way that I do not dare to embrace this motion. I must dissuade the text, but I say to Mr Van Vliet that with the assessment of the Tax Administration and the still responsible generosity I have just promised to Mr Groot, I would like to respond to his underlying desire. However, I find the terms in the motion, 'without reservation' and 'exhibitable' complicated. My sympathy is with Mr Van Vliet, but for technical reasons I must advise against the motion. I'll smile in his direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u41	See, that's what he's got in the pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u42	I believe that the Chamber has called on the Secretary of State to be more generous in customization. Mr Groot and Mrs Neppérus also spoke about it. Those are the coalition partners of the Secretary of State. They also said the Secretary of State shouldn't be so lame. If someone takes the trouble to call the IRS, first sits in the queue for 15 minutes and then asks for a paper envelope, the Secretary of State in I don't know how many percent of the cases are difficult and that person doesn't get the envelope. That's the call in my motion. When people ask for it, proactively take the trouble and say that they want an envelope with a certain attack or supplement, then it should be possible? However, that is not happening now. That is why I said in my first term that the Secretary of State is pushing people's digitalization down their throats too much. That's gonna hit him in the face once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u43	We have a transition path. In this the deadlines are not frozen hard, just to give this a chance. It's probably gonna be seven years. I have just promised that we will show a responsible generosity. That has already happened in 16,000 cases. I think the tax authorities have done this very nicely so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u44	16,000 cases, that sounds like a lot, but it's not generous when 150,000 people have called and a blue envelope has been issued in 16,000 cases. I'd like to know how many people asked for a blue envelope. How many people did they get in the end? I think 100% of all people who bother calling the IRS and asking for a blue envelope should be served.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u45	All kinds of people call with all kinds of concerns, sometimes also about other matters, and with all kinds of general questions. Exactly how many people ask for a blue envelope, I don't have at hand. In any case, in 16,000 cases, it has been decided that there should be customisation. There were no cross-examinations. In 16,000 cases it was justified and wise to serve people by mail for a while. I thought that was very neat. That is what I want to say, with my commitment that we will be generous in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u46	I think it's really weird. The IRS and the Secretary of State are moving on a path they should not go on. I see a phone call like that. So you have to tell the IRS you don't have any family, friends or computer. Then you'll get your blue letter. I really think that's going too far. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to give up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u47	There are no cross-examinations on the phone, but it is being considered whether people can arrange their tax cases in another way. That is the case for very people. This is also a reason for many people to go digital. The Tax Administration is, of course, the forerunner within the digital government. There will come times when we will arrange the RDW data, the question of whether we want to be a donor and whatever. By far most elderly people in the Netherlands surf the web daily. That's where we need to go. As we have already said during the debate in the Chamber, the legislative proposal consists of a digital code only and compulsory after a certain transition has taken place. We're doing that transition in a very neat way. We have taken a very long time for that. Eventually, it's going to be digital, but we're not gonna do it until we can. In the meantime we are careful, we take it one step at a time. We're not doing the critical things at first. That's the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u48	It seems logical to me that people who call can point out that they can ask someone for help. I don't think these people should be interrogated. The Secretary of State's letter states that people must state that they have no computer, no friends and no family. I really think that's going too far. I think the Secretary of State should be more generous. I would say, now embrace the motion in part No. 24!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u49	I gave the advice on the motion. Above all, Mr Bashir should not forget the commitments I made in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u50	Anything the Secretary of State says corresponds to the thrust of my motion. The Secretary of State thinks the motion is just a little too strict. That strict wording is intended precisely to talk about the very last group. That's the group I think the Secretary of State is talking about. I have started the motion positively by considering that it is a good thing that the message traffic between the Tax Administration and taxpayers has been digitised by law and that we should continue to do so. Let us now do that hand-off to that very last group, so that they know that something will eventually be arranged for them. That's all. I think we are in complete agreement. So in the context of the end of the year, I would say: Secretary of State, please judge Chamber now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u51	A kind of Christmas idea about the motion in part No. 25! Whatever we could do is this. I make a commitment to Mr Van Vliet that we are responsiblely generous in providing tailor-made work to do something on paper for those people for whom that would prove to lead to deadlock for some time to come. Then he can withdraw the motion and be satisfied with this commitment. And then I don't have to dissuade anything. Then we have a sharp understanding of what the promise is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u52	Let's see if the Christmas spirit lives with Mr. Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u53	The Christmas spirit is alive. I'll hold the motion. At least that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u54	At the request of Mr Van Vliet, I propose his motion (34196, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u55	So much for this debate. We'll be voting on the three motions later. I see that Mr Omtzigt has something to say. Short and pointy, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u56	I have another factual question. How many people can expect a post-tax due to the Pechtold tax? What are the numbers? Can we still get that information in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u57	I do not know a levy with such a name. In my opinion, the letter states that we cannot estimate the number of people who receive the post-tax referred to by Mr Omtzigt, because we... think. I can't name numbers right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u58	You said in the debate that those figures were there. You might want to look around and see if you can give it in the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u59	It's true that I said earlier that I would look for the numbers. This is another good question from Mr Omtzigt!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u60	If you're looking for them, do it after Christmas. After all, you'll have to go to the First Chamber next week, and you'll have to rest for a while afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u61	I'm gonna spend the whole Christmas vacation looking for the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u62	No, just from January 1st. Just look for it and they'll come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u63	If you find them, under any Christmas tree!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u64	When I find them, I'll bring them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-25.u65	So much for this debate and so much for our parliamentary activities this year. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence. He is kind enough to be present at the votes later. We appreciate that very much. Those votes will take place in an hour. That's 8:30. We're gonna suspend for dinner first.
