ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this is the umpteenth time that we have to discuss the treatment of a Dutch journalist abroad in oral Question Time. I say "must state," because this is worrying. Yesterday, a Dutch journalist was thrown out of Morocco, with no excuse and no explanation. Rik Gorde was put on a boat, he got a one-way ticket to Spain and he had to find out for himself. Freedom of the press is at the heart of the free world. Freedom to express yourself is one of the pillars of a democratic rule of law. Without free press, the social debate is silent, governance is not controlled and our democracy cannot exist. D66 believes that we should not accept that this is being violated. It doesn't matter how big or how small the step towards restricting freedom of the press is. This is not an incident, because Morocco is 136th on the list of freedom of the press. Freedom of the press is also under pressure worldwide. First of all, the local press suffers greatly, but Dutch journalists abroad are also getting more difficult. In Turkey, several Dutch journalists were arrested and expelled, just like in Egypt where Rena Netjes was arrested and where she finally escaped with the help of the embassy. It is precisely at this time, when the free speech is under pressure and our democratic principles of law and our values and freedoms are being violated that we must defend them. That's why I have the following questions. Has the government been in contact with the Moroccan government about the specific incident? Has there been a request for clarification? What is the explanation of the Moroccan authorities? Does the Cabinet wish to examine the possibility of establishing a legal assistance fund to prevent journalists being persecuted by authoritarian regimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. It's true that the journalist Rik Goverde was kicked out by Morocco. There has been contact with the embassy and consular assistance has been provided. We will ask the Moroccan authorities through the Dutch embassy for clarification on the situation. One of the reasons that seems to be there, and which the Moroccan government could or could have used, is the fact that the journalist did not have the necessary permits there. However, we need to find out more and find out. It is also clear that Mr Sjoerdsma is quite right in saying that the level of freedom of the press in Morocco is quite different from that in the Netherlands. The Netherlands attaches great importance to freedom of expression and thus to freedom of the press. The Netherlands also wants to contribute to this, for example through the Matra programme financed by the Netherlands, which provides assistance and assistance in several countries, including to enable the free press to develop. On the question of a specific fund, I must remain guilty of the answer. I'm here to replace Secretary Koenders. I would suggest to Mr Sjoerdsma that this question be put to Mr Koenders himself in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	I thank Minister Asscher for his answers. It is, of course, good to see that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is on top of this and that consular assistance has already been provided, also because, as I said in my first term, freedom of the press has been put under increasing pressure and this is certainly not the first incident in which a Dutch journalist has been made impossible to work abroad. I do have a question about what this consular assistance has withheld. Is the Minister prepared to provide clarification to the Chamber if it has been clarified from Morocco? The Minister also says that Morocco would use the lack of a permit to expel this journalist. That suggests the minister thinks there's another motive. I'd like to hear from the Minister what motive that would be. I would also like to discuss the broader case of freedom of the press. It is clear that it is not enough just to follow this case when it begins. That must also be done when it plays later, when promises have to be made. In that context, I'm retrieving Rena's case. Former Minister Timmermans has promised to fight for her pardon. Did the Foreign Minister do so and what was Egypt's response? As far as the fund is concerned, the Minister says: please address Minister Koenders again. I will be happy to do so, but ask this Minister to ask him to investigate it in advance, to provide assistance to journalists abroad, who are often involved in impossible, bureaucratic, legal procedures, in order to prevent them from going bankrupt simply because they want to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	Let me begin with the more fundamental point. I fully agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. The Netherlands is not only interested in guarding the freedom of the press and freedom of expression in the Netherlands. Dutch journalists abroad also deserve our support. Freedom of the press in the world as a whole is important for progress, for the freedom of people, wherever they are in the world. For this reason, the Netherlands is committed to this in various ways. I mentioned the Matra Program for a while. We do that in many more ways. Human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of expression are an important part of our foreign policy. If there is an incident, as with Rick Gorde now, the Dutch embassy asks. I would like to say that I will let the Chamber know what reaction it has received from the Moroccan government. I have received the information that it seems that this journalist did not have the necessary papers and permits. I cannot judge whether this has played a role here and if so, whether it was a legitimate argument or an occasional argument. I will give you the facts as I have heard them and they may be updated later. I will pass the question on to Minister Koenders on to Mrs Nice. Perhaps he can also answer that question in the letter in which a response is given in connection with the contact with the Moroccan authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	We will hear the precise facts later, but we already know that this is not an isolated fact. This is more common in Morocco and unfortunately not just with journalists. Now that it focuses on the free speech and a Dutch journalist, I would ask the Minister to look at how journalists from other European countries are doing in Morocco. The European Union has an association agreement with Morocco. Important aspects such as human rights and freedoms play a role in this. It would be preferable to have a critical voice from Europe. May I once plead for European action in relation to Morocco?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	The context outlined by Mr Van Bommel was already mentioned by the questioner. The ranking of Reporteurs sans frontières shows that Morocco has the freedom of the press at a very different level than the Netherlands, a lower level. This is reflected in several incidents. This will therefore affect journalists from other Member States. First of all, it is necessary to ask for clarification on what exactly has been played and to inform the Court of Justice about it. There may then be grounds for calling for more attention at European level, if the case so warrants and if it fits in with the wider context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	I can understand that order. Two weeks ago, we debated Turkey, last week on Azerbaijan and this week on Morocco. I therefore ask the Minister to ensure, in his approach to the Ambassador, that political, diplomatic and economic relations are not put at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	Foreign policy is always a mixture of the interests of the Netherlands, but it is not for nothing that promoting human rights is an important pillar of our foreign policy. This means that you sometimes have to ask for clarification, even if some countries find that unpleasant. In this case, when a national of a Member State's friend is suddenly expelled, it seems logical to me to ask what all that was necessary for. Then you have to assess what the answer to that brings with it. So if I have to take Mr Kuzu's question as 'take account of all interests', then the answer will also be on behalf of Mr Koenders: of course. If I had to explain the question as 'preferably make human rights subordinate to those other interests', the Dutch Government would not go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm a little hesitant because the minister is here as a replacement. Perhaps it would be good to get the answers to the questions that Mr Sjoerdsma has just asked to the Foreign Affairs budget, so that we can ask Mr Koenders to do so. I would like to add the following question. Is the fact that there is a link with the permits for the journalist in question, also a link with his possible presence in the Western Sahara.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	I very much appreciate that Mr Ten Broeke has already outlined the possibility of Mr Koenders answering that question himself in the preparation of the budget debate. I understand that treatment will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	Tomorrow morning at 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	Then it is good that there is that possibility, but I do not know whether Mr Koenders will be able to do so because he is currently abroad; the Minister for Foreign Affairs is almost permanently abroad. I'll pass the question on to him. If it is not possible to do so in writing, he may at least address it orally in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you very much for this commitment and for coming to the Chamber.
