ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. It is now at the end of January and the whole transition circus of health insurance companies is fortunately over again. For months we have seen advertising campaign on advertising campaign and many other ways to seduce insured people to move from one health insurance provider to another. It's worth a lot of money. 500 million are spent on advertising, sponsorship and customer loyalty on an annual basis. That amounts to €500 per changer and that is five months' premium. All care money that doesn't go to care. It doesn't just irritate me. We have made an appeal to people to e-mail the health insurance companies to stop those health promotions. More than 100,000 e-mails have been sent. But the madness of this transition circus becomes most visible in luring insured people with gifts. How does the Minister feel about people being lured with a voucher for clothing, for magazines, but also with an iPad, an Xbox, condoms, a shirt from your favorite football club PSV or Vitesse or free access to Walibi or the Dolphinarium for a year? Of course it all sounds great, but how much does it cost? Doesn't the Minister see that these kinds of decoys are ultimately aimed at bringing in those insured people who are lucrative, who are not very ill, so that the health insurance companies can make more profits? Is the Minister prepared to impose on the health insurance companies that they stop this kind of decoy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologise to Mrs Leijten for the late reply to her written questions. It was inside our system on February 2nd. That does not mean, however, that we have made a mistake. So here's to it. The cost of advertising is there. We all see the commercials, so we also know that those costs are made. However, the administrative costs as a percentage of healthcare costs were lower in 2013 than in 2004, when we had the health insurance fund so acclaimed by Mrs Leijten without that whole switching circus. A system that has competition has lower management costs in itself than a system that does not have competition but where you simply lost the money to bureaucracy. The system delivers very good results. Once again, we are number one in the European ranking for care systems, especially for the quality of care and the way in which it is decided on the care a patient receives. I think it's okay if a health insurance company says that he needs to be brought to his care because he's incredibly good health care. What I do not want, however, is for risk selection to take place. That is why I asked about policies such as PhD candidates. PhD candidate has been mentioned more often than not, which focuses for example on highly educated people. Is it aimed at profitable target groups? How does that work? Are marketing strategies behind that, how does it work and is that lucrative? If that is indeed the outcome, I can promise that I will take absolutely no action against it, because risk selection does not fit in with our solidarity-based health care system in which every customer must be equally important, whether he has a chronic illness, whether he is old or young or healthy. For the summer of 2015, the NZa will come up with the results of the investigation and I will actually draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u3	Of course, it is well known that the SP and this minister are miles apart in solving the problems in the care sector. We say 'gone with the power of the health insurance companies and away with the health insurance companies'. We can conjure up administrative costs on which many reports have been written, but from the report that has been issued today and to which the Minister refers, we know that it is a sponsored report and that the facts on which it is based are very debatable. This is simply said by scientific institutes in Europe. Back to the decoys, because that's what it was about. I think it's a big deal that the Minister doesn't make a statement about that. I think it is a good thing that the Minister is okay with people, for example young people, being lured with a pack of condoms for very bad policies, which do not pay for everything or not for everything. It is sand in the eyes of the people and this minister should do something about it. I'm gonna ask her again what she's gonna do about these lurers. Is she willing to instruct the health insurance companies to stop doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u4	Bad policies? We have legal provisions for which everyone is insured. For that wide package, which includes more than 95% of all care, everyone is insured, whatever policy you take. The quality of care is the same for everyone, because we do not have government-controlled systems like in England, which are so bad that you have a private system besides which people have to insure themselves privately. We have laid down rules in the bill that a health insurance company should be transparent in what can be achieved and at which hospital. Unfortunately, that bill was rejected by the First Chamber. I will certainly lay down those rules, because I think it is important for patients to know which hospital they can go to and which hospital they can't go to before they take out a policy. In the Netherlands we do not have bad policies. We have a system that doesn't matter how much you earn or where you come from; you're in the hospital right next to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u5	There are hospitals in the country that warn their patients not to take out certain policies from certain insurers, because certain treatments will not be reimbursed in that hospital. This is a fact. We all know this. At the same time, those same health insurance companies are luring with iPads and Xboxes. I expected, apart from the ideological discussion, that the Minister would go into that. Apparently, we are not dealing here with the health minister for everyone, but with the health insurance minister. I'm very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u6	Hospitals may advise patients to take a particular policy. It's fine if they do. You can take advantage of that as a patient or not. It is not right to dismiss this system as a system that exists for insurers. We are not only number one in the Euro Health Consumer Index, but also the distance to number two is increasing. In this study it is precisely said that in our system patients with their doctors decide on care, that financiers and other bureaucrats give away far from that process........................................................................................................................................................................................ This is not only apparent from this investigation. Whether the common health studies are looked at or the OECD, the Dutch system really scores very well in quality, accessibility and even affordability. I find it particularly regrettable that what our people in the field can do is constantly being pushed down, day in and day out. If we go to the hospitals in England we know again how lucky we are that in this hospital are rich and poor in the same bed next to each other and are helped by the same doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u7	More than 500 million go to the sponsoring of football clubs, TV programmes and radio programmes every year, but also to this kind of lure. That's sin money, and that's what these Chamber questions are about. The Minister doesn't say anything about this. She quotes a report that was made and sponsored by people who are market ideologists, that's fine with me. However, I prefer to point out the RIVM, which says that 22% of people cannot pay for care because of the high risk they face. This minister walks away from that. I think that's very tragic, because I just asked her to stop throwing lures and people sand in the eyes. She doesn't even take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u8	There's no system without overhead. A competitive system has advertising as overhead. A system that is controlled by the government has the bureaucracy elsewhere. When the numbers are placed side by side, this system just comes out very nicely. I did say to the Chamber that perhaps the Chamber did not hear this, but it is important that risk selection does not fit our system. I am referring here to bringing in a specific group through gifts or otherwise, because insurance companies believe that this is the way to gain profit. With our system, everyone, whether you are chronically ill or young and healthy, should be equally attractive to a health insurance provider. The whole system is built on it. Everyone pays the same bounty, too. If risk selection takes place, by whatever means, I will take measures to prevent it, because this is the backbone of the system of solidarity as we know it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u9	It is an extremely sad day for the SP. On the day that independent research comes out that shows that our system is the best in the world and is well ahead of others, the SP comes up with lying stories and questions about 500 million in marketing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u10	Your question must be put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u11	Is the Minister aware that a "next check" of nrc.next has shown that these 500 million are not marketing costs, but only 50 million are marketing and 450 million are customer service? This is simply about supporting healthcare insurers' customers and it provides an important service to customers in the country and to all those who need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u12	Yeah, that's the overhead. It also includes the costs of the person you get on the phone with the insurer when you call to ask which hospital you can do best if you have, for example, Lyme disease. The overhead costs do not include the costs directly incurred to provide care, but the costs incurred to provide information to the insured person. I don't think all that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u13	Will the Minister respond to my statement that Mrs Leijten's calculation of the 500 million that would only be due to the people who are switching is totally incorrect? These costs are incurred for the benefit of all the customers of all health insurance companies, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u14	Yeah, that's true. I just made it clear that I'm proud of the system we have. This system is not perfect, but it leads to hugely good results. Care is complex. If I have a disease I've never heard of, it's very wise if I call my insurance company to ask where I can best go. This is the system we've set up with each other. Overhead's not always wrong. Sometimes it's just necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u15	In the hearing we organised last week on the role of the health insurance company, a large health insurance company mentioned the switching industry abject. He distanced himself from the gifts and decoys that people didn't allow to make a choice because of the content of the policy, but because of the wrong things. Healthcare insurers find it difficult to avoid this circus. The commercial comparison sites force them to offer such lures. How does the Minister intend to stop working with these locks, so the wrong incentives in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u16	Following this system that has been running for about ten years, I have instructed the NZa to inform me about a number of issues including the comparison sites. On what basis can we improve it? We once considered having a comparison site of our own. The question is whether it is better, so whether the government can make such a site better than the people who are doing it now. On the other hand, the question is whether these people provide information that is fair and relevant. In any case, we have released the insurers in their decision on the way in which they put themselves in the window, even though the conditions are very strict. Everyone has the same package, everyone has the same fee and everyone pays the same premium from the same insurer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u17	In the transition period Arjen Lubach made a song about switching. It's called "Shippers," do I have to switch? I'm not gonna sing that song here right now, but it's worth listening back. At the end he says quite happy: "I choose health insurance company X, because I get tickets for Billy Elliot!" This, of course, indicates the problem and the downside of those presents. People are being lured. They are looking to see if they can go to Billy Elliot, while of course we want them to look at the policy they choose to prevent them from coming up with nasty surprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u18	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u19	How can people be promoted to be honest, understandable and well informed rather than lured?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u20	That seems to me to be an understatement of the one who is switching, because for him or her a number of things are very important. I want to balance them, too. Research has shown that the most important thing of all is the price of insurance. I want people to look more closely at the quality of insurance in the sense that they are wondering what that insurance offers them. That is why I think it is much more important that we look together at a comparison site that actually says something about the care provided by insurance than that we focus on the rather cocky gifts that are given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u21	That is a somewhat unparliamentary expression, but I think everyone has understood her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u22	Tough presents then! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u23	Every year, health insurance companies spend EUR 500 million on acquiring existing policies and new policies. We cannot deny with each other that a significant part of that money goes to the gifts with which insured persons are lured. The Minister has still not indicated that she wants to limit this. We're not talking about a car dealer, are we? These are insurance companies that sell policies, where the focus should be on the content of the healthcare policy and not on the baits. What's the Minister gonna do to stop and stop offering those decoys?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u24	We are talking about packages of condoms and such gifts. It is not a question of significant amounts. This is my next question. To what extent does it pay to lure certain groups into the risk selection with gifts that are interesting for that group? That is what the real big money is about. That's what the system is about: that regardless of your illness you have the same conditions with an insurer. I'll get that checked out, and I'll get back to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u25	The big fundamental problem is that this minister wants to make a market very gradually. We all know that the market has no morals and is looking for profit. So you get the four biggest health insurance companies to do everything, including half a billion, to catch each other flies. In practice, however, we see 300,000 people who cannot pay the premiums and 800,000 people who cannot pay the risk. People who, for financial reasons, do not receive the care they need. And what does the Minister do? There's one more step to it. Really make a fist against risk selection: I can hear it, but I don't see it. Complete gifts are distributed, iPads, everything and everything, and care becomes even more a market. When will the Minister see that this is a dead end, that we are dealing here with a minister of health insurance and that this system does not allow everyone to have access to care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u26	We have a system that doesn't even look like a market in the distance. We have the public frontier condition that everyone must be accepted for the same premium by the health insurance provider, whether he is sick and has a lot of costs or is healthy and has little cost. Everyone pays the same premium for the same package. We impose incredibly many rules on the health sector. With these rules, we want to guarantee solidarity. That's what we do in this country, because if you have a low income and an expensive disease, you get the care you need in the Netherlands, because of the top specialists we have here. No one has to sell their house for that, because that care is just as good as someone who has a lot of money. We don't make a distinction in that. It's about what the results of the system are. Today it has again been shown that the Netherlands by far has the best results with the system in which competition must ensure efficiency and innovation, and in which the public framework conditions must ensure solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. That concludes oral Question Time.
