ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u1	This is the conclusion in plenary of a debate which was very extensive the day before yesterday. I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Foreign Minister and once again the Minister of Defence. Ten speakers have signed up for this debate. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. The fight against Islamic State is a long-term issue, but it is also a matter of supreme necessity. The Netherlands makes a good contribution to this by training Kurdish peshmerga fighters and Iraqi military. In addition, the Netherlands also contributes in an excellent way to the fight by air strikes against Islamic State in Iraq. Islamic State not only creates hell in Iraq, but also in Syria. In addition, the fight waged by Islamic State in Iraq is constantly fed by warriors and weapons headed from Syria. In addition, Islamic State fighters fighting in Iraq can always return to Syria for rest and recovery, to rest and recover. Islamic State is virtually not hindered in all that activity in Syria. You can do much better than that. There is every reason for this, and I think the government can see that. From a military point of view, there is also every reason to attack Islamic State in Syria. Nevertheless, our government hesitates to use our F-16s against Islamic State in Syria. The government hesitates because there is no prospect of a strategy that can reasonably lead to a good endgame in Syria. And that's right, there is no such strategy, and I think it could take a very long time before such a strategy will be there, if ever there will be, because I doubt it. Do we have to let the Islamic State go unhindered in Syria? I think that's a bad idea. Some fear that it was also apparent in the debate we had earlier this week that if we attack Islamic State in Syria, we are also playing into the hands of the regime of Assad or Al-Qaeda or other terrible Islamic terrorists. However, doing nothing is not without consequences. The non-attacks by Islamic State in Syria also have terrible consequences. I can imagine that the government wants to think this through, but I hope that the government will be quick to do so and will act quickly. Undoing the successes of Islamic State and letting their appeal to confused heads fade is also a Dutch interest. I would therefore like to encourage the government with a motion and ask my colleagues in the Chamber to support it. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the fight against ISIS in Iraq is severely impaired by the fact that ISIS is not, or is hardly, hampered (at least to an insufficient extent) in the landing of fighters and weapons from Syria to Iraq and that the area controlled by ISIS in Syria can also be used as a place of refuge for the ISIS fighters from Iraq;]] [[Whereas by doing so, the use of the Dutch air weapon against ISIS in Iraq is like fighting with one hand tied behind the back;]] [[Whereas, from a military point of view, there is every reason to attack ISIS in Syria;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how the Dutch air weapon can be used against ISIS in Syria and, if possible, to make the Dutch air weapon available, and to inform the Chamber thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-546]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u3	I have a comment, which is actually quite fundamental. In the Article 100 system that we have agreed and have also constitutionally established, I do not really think it is appropriate that, however much you believe that action should be taken in Syria, there should be a motion from the Chamber that points out the military apparatus and the government where they are to drop their bombs. I support the tabling of this motion, but such a motion will never be supported by the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u4	My reaction to that is that I am not yet telling the government that she should be throwing bombs there. I merely ask the government to see whether it would like to do so, how it would like to do so, and whether, if it can and will do so, it will keep the air weapon ready. That is what the motion calls for, no more and no less. I admit to Mr Ten Broeke that I hope that the Government's answer will be yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u5	In my view, this is exactly the same, if we take Article 100 seriously, and indeed all the articles of the Constitution from 93 onwards. We must ultimately entrust this to the government and to the military apparatus. That's why we have them. Fortunately, we are only representatives of the people and, apart from our employees, do not employ uniforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u6	This sounds like bullshit to me. That would mean that we in the Chamber should never state that we believe that the government should be taking military action somewhere. We can, of course, do so, and we can certainly do so with a motion, in my view, also in this third period. I would like to express my support on behalf of the PVV for the extension of the current mission against Islamic State in Iraq. I wish our soldiers every success and strength and I wish them every success. I hope that they will all return safely to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u7	Mr. Chairman. On 7 October 2014, two Dutch F-16s cast off the first three bombs on targets of ISIS in Iraq. A lot has happened since then and there have been successes. The Iraqi cities Tikrit and Baiji have been recaptured at ISIS. The Kurds have started to advance in northern Iraq and 25% of the populated areas in Syria and Iraq have been liberated from the barbaric ISIS regime. Dutch pilots, Dutch trainers and all the Dutch military we joined in October 2014 contribute to these successes. That is what my group is proud of. We all feel the urgency and need to act against the terror of ISIS. However, urgency and necessity do not relieve us of our duty to take a critical look at the coalition's overall strategy. We are critical of this and we have concerns about it. We have concerns about elements that stand in the way of an effective approach to ISIS. I would like to mention these concerns explicitly here in this period: the problematic role of Iran and Shiite militias in Iraq, the lack of a political strategy to allow the Sunnis in Iraq to fight against ISIS, the failure to face up to the fact that Syria and Iraq are one battlefield, the reduced impact of the peshmergas on insufficient armament and, finally, the lack of financial support that ISIS is still receiving. In the debate, the government has clearly indicated that it is also aware of these concerns and that it wants to act on them. Possibly military operations in Syria, possibly military operations in Syria, Mr De Roon, is not ahead of us in this Article 100 letter. However, it is clear that the cabinet has come to the conclusion that there are no longer any international objections to this. Good, but I still see international law advice as an advocacy to a subsequent Article 100 letter, which we may receive after the summer or when the cabinet will be able to do so. However, the initiative, primacy and responsibility for this remain with the government. Another objection to which I would like to draw attention in this plenary round is the financing of the extension of this mission. There is a Ten Broeke/Servaes motion calling on the government to fund missions in the future on a sustainable basis. Honesty dictates that this is not enough. During this extension there is again a cash drawer. It is smaller than last time, but it is not gone. That is what we are doing to finance our fight against ISIS. Mr (VVD): On top of that, we know that the operational readiness of the armed forces will also come under greater pressure as a result of this extension. For the VVD Group, it is necessary for subsequent missions and extensions of military-wide operational deficits to be included and included in the budget. Mr Servaes will be tabling a motion this time. I'll finish, but not until I've highlighted one more case. This fight against an enemy of civilization falls or stands with the courage and dedication of our troops. They are doing this battle, which we have not chosen, but which we all in this Chamber say we cannot and do not want to avoid. We visited them last month, our kites, our trainers and all our support units. All brave men and women. Men and women who left without hesitation for a war when we said, "You must go." Suppose we hadn't done that, that we hadn't intervened. Then the Jezidis would probably only have been found in our history books. Then perhaps the black ISIS flags would have wandered in Baghdad and who knows later in Amman or Beirut. Another million extra people in the Middle East would have been displaced and fled and who knows how many more were murdered. That would not only have been a defeat for the whole region, but for the whole Western world. After all, this civilisation enemy not only fights at our external borders, but also manifests itself in our inner cities. It's not just far from here, it's here. It is about the value of freedom and civilisation that we have built together here in centuries. In this conviction, the VVD Group can support the decision to continue the fight against ISIS, a battle that will last for many years to come. We are proud of the Dutch military that we have sent out and are going to broadcast. They contribute to this essential struggle. This is our civilization against their barbarism. However, it is not only the military, but also all those fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, partners and friends who remain concerned and count and strip away the days until their return. Also to these people, the people at home who bear the enormous burden of uncertainty, our thoughts go out today. I wish them all strength and our troops a safe return. Mr. Chairman. On 7 October 2014, two Dutch F-16s cast off the first three bombs on targets of ISIS in Iraq. A lot has happened since then and there have been successes. The Iraqi cities Tikrit and Baiji have been recaptured at ISIS. The Kurds have started to advance in northern Iraq and 25% of the populated areas in Syria and Iraq have been liberated from the barbaric ISIS regime. Dutch pilots, Dutch trainers and all the Dutch military we joined in October 2014 contribute to these successes. That is what my group is proud of. We all feel the urgency and need to act against the terror of ISIS. However, urgency and necessity do not relieve us of our duty to take a critical look at the coalition's overall strategy. We are critical of this and we have concerns about it. We have concerns about elements that stand in the way of an effective approach to ISIS. I would like to mention these concerns explicitly here in this period: the problematic role of Iran and Shiite militias in Iraq, the lack of a political strategy to allow the Sunnis in Iraq to fight against ISIS, the failure to face up to the fact that Syria and Iraq are one battlefield, the reduced impact of the peshmergas on insufficient armament and, finally, the lack of financial support that ISIS is still receiving. In the debate, the government has clearly indicated that it is also aware of these concerns and that it wants to act on them. Possibly military operations in Syria, possibly military operations in Syria, Mr De Roon, is not ahead of us in this Article 100 letter. However, it is clear that the cabinet has come to the conclusion that there are no longer any international objections to this. Good, but I still see international law advice as an advocacy to a subsequent Article 100 letter, which we may receive after the summer or when the cabinet will be able to do so. However, the initiative, primacy and responsibility for this remain with the government. Another objection to which I would like to draw attention in this plenary round is the financing of the extension of this mission. There is a Ten Broeke/Servaes motion calling on the government to fund missions in the future on a sustainable basis. Honesty dictates that this is not enough. During this extension there is again a cash drawer. It is smaller than last time, but it is not gone. That is what we are doing to finance our fight against ISIS. On top of that, we know that the operational readiness of the armed forces will also come under greater pressure as a result of this extension. For the VVD Group, it is necessary for subsequent missions and extensions of military-wide operational deficits to be included and included in the budget. Mr Servaes will be tabling a motion this time. I'll finish, but not until I've highlighted one more case. This fight against an enemy of civilization falls or stands with the courage and dedication of our troops. They are doing this battle, which we have not chosen, but which we all in this Chamber say we cannot and do not want to avoid. We visited them last month, our kites, our trainers and all our support units. All brave men and women. Men and women who left without hesitation for a war when we said, "You must go." Suppose we hadn't done that, that we hadn't intervened. Then the Jezidis would probably only have been found in our history books. Then perhaps the black ISIS flags would have wandered in Baghdad and who knows later in Amman or Beirut. Another million extra people in the Middle East would have been displaced and fled and who knows how many more were murdered. That would not only have been a defeat for the whole region, but for the whole Western world. After all, this civilisation enemy not only fights at our external borders, but also manifests itself in our inner cities. It's not just far from here, it's here. It is about the value of freedom and civilisation that we have built together here in centuries. In this conviction, the VVD Group can support the decision to continue the fight against ISIS, a battle that will last for many years to come. We are proud of the Dutch military that we have sent out and are going to broadcast. They contribute to this essential struggle. This is our civilization against their barbarism. However, it is not only the military, but also all those fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, partners and friends who remain concerned and count and strip away the days until their return. Also to these people, the people at home who bear the enormous burden of uncertainty, our thoughts go out today. I wish them all strength and our troops a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u8	Mr. Chairman. The international coalition conducting the fight against Islamic State shall do so upon request and with the agreement of the Government of Iraq. In the debate I asked the government who is still representing the government of Iraq, following comments and analyses by others, including the US Department of Defence and also Dutch defence experts, who say that countries such as Iraq and Syria, but also Yemen and Libya as such no longer exist. In Iraq, therefore, the practice seems to be that the international coalition mainly acts as the Shiite Air Force for the Shiite-dominated Government in Baghdad. Iraq, in the opinion of many people, I share that view, if not already disintegrated, is falling apart in three parts. Action by one of the parties in that country, as far as it is still a country, will only increase the differences between the groups in Iraq. A solution is becoming increasingly difficult, especially when, as the government points out, it is also dependent on a political process involving all groups in Iraq. Unfortunately, that is not the case now. We are seeing an ever-increasing expulsion between the government in Baghdad and the Kurds in the north. We do not see successful attempts to integrate Sunnis, which are largely the source of recruitment for Islamic State, into the political process. This means that there is a bomb under the entire political process in Iraq, not to mention the situation in Syria. The SP is concerned about the firmness with which the government says that there are no longer any international legal objections to action in Syria, but that, possibly, before such action is discussed, agreement should be sought with other partners. I therefore suspect that this letter, in which no participation is announced in or above Syria by the Netherlands, is the prelude to such an intervention, once again making the political process subordinate to military intervention. That will not bring the solution for both Syria and Iraq any closer. In my contribution in general consultation, I have drawn a great deal of attention to a number of issues on which I would like to make proposals. The first concerns the establishment of a mechanism similar to that in Syria in order to at least see civilian casualties and other results of the deployment of Dutch F-16s. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are worrying reports of civilian casualties resulting from air strikes in Iraq and Syria on ISIS targets by the coalition countries, of which the Netherlands is part;]] [[considers that it is important that such reports are examined and that civilian victims or their survivors have access to compensation;]] [[further considers that it is important that there should be regular openness about the number of fighters and civilians killed by air strikes by Dutch F-16s in Iraq;]] [[calls on the Government, to investigate reports of civilian casualties, to promote a compensation scheme for civilian victims or their families and to regularly inform the Chamber of the number of fighters and civilians killed by Dutch air strikes in Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-547]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u9	For much longer there has been a discussion about the role of Turkey, the double role of Turkey, where Turkey is accused, there are also images of and persistent reports about the passing of weapons, the passing of warriors and the passing of money. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there have been reports of Turkey's support for jihadist groups in Syria and Iraq for years, including arms supplies and foreign fighters crossing the border;]] [[Considering that the fight against IS is seriously hampered if these and other radical groups can easily obtain new weapons;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to independent investigation to identify support through Turkey to jihadist fighting groups in Syria and Iraq so that this can be countered better,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-548]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u10	There has also been general consultation on the role of the PKK, an organisation of Turkish Kurds which is still on the list of terrorist organisations. Clearly, given the role it plays in Turkey in the peace process, with a ceasefire, and the role it plays in combating IS, this organisation must be removed from the list of terrorist organisations. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the PKK is on the list of EU terrorist organisations;]] [[Considering that since March 2013, the PKK has observed a ceasefire in the conflict with the Turkish government;]] [[Considers that the PKK plays a positive role in the peace process in Turkey and in the fight against IS;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the removal of the PKK from this list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-549]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u11	Finally, the answer to the basic question of whether my group can agree to the extension of the Dutch participation in the mission in Iraq. No, my group does not agree with that. This is without prejudice to the fact that we too wish the Dutch troops success and a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u12	I would like to ask Mr Van Bommel if he knows how many innocent civilian victims the PKK has on her conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u13	Exactly what I don't know. No one knows, I'm afraid. The fact that tens of thousands have died in 30 years of struggle between the PKK and Turkish soldiers is a fact. I am therefore very pleased that there has been a ceasefire on the part of the PKK since 2013, which is being properly respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u14	That's right. There's been a lot of civilian casualties. I wonder what the SP message is to all those fathers, to all those mothers, to all those cousins and to all those cousins of people who died in that fight. What is the message from Mr Van Bommel to all those people who also live in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u15	The message to those people is that peace between the PKK and the Turkish government is the only way, after there is clarification about the question of guilt and after there is clarification about what exactly happened in those years. As far as I am concerned, there is no doubt that the role of the PKK and the warriors must be kept under review, as well as the role of the Turkish government and the military. However, there can only be investigation and possible prosecution if there is a peaceful situation between the PKK and the Turkish authorities. That is what we hope to promote with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u16	Mr. Chairman. The atrocities of ISIS come to us almost every day and unfortunately from an ever wider area. Each time, ISIS seeks a new, more barbaric way to defy our values of peace, freedom and tolerance. ISIS is a disaster for Iraq, a curse for the region and a threat to our own open society, which we must take extremely seriously. And so there was and still is broad support for fighting this sinister hyperextremism. Even the only party, we heard the net, which, in general consultation on Tuesday evening, repeated not to support the Dutch contribution, acknowledges that only with the use of military means can ISIS be effectively combated. We showed determination on Tuesday to continue the fight against ISIS. At the same time, however, we have had a fundamental debate on how to fight this battle. Chamber and cabinet share the analysis that this can and should be done even better. I call the disappointing fighting will of the Iraqi armed forces, the loosely sung Shiite militias, which sometimes do more harm than good and the slow way in which the Al-Abadi Government's reform agenda leads to concrete results for all Iraqi population groups. I would also mention the way in which, although the international coalition has set up several trails and so many working groups, it is still not sufficiently successful in draining the sources of funding from ISIS or preventing so-called foreign fighters. On all these points, we ask the Cabinet, together with partners, to use extra energy. Military commitment is essential to halt the advance of ISIS. However, much more is needed to remove the breeding ground for ISIS and to achieve a sustainable strategy for a stable Iraq, in which Shiites, Sunnis, Kurds and other minorities can build up their lives. It is not just about throwing bombs, but above all about the use of local, moderate forces and cooperation between population groups. The same applies to Syria, where there is great frustration about the inability to break the deadlock of violence, even after four and a half years of civil war. Energy must now focus on forging unity among the opposition and building a political strategy with regional, European and international partners. On each mission, the PvdA Group realizes what this means for the deployed military. We also see the impact it has on the wider defence organisation. With regard to flexibility, we consider it important to take a close look at it in such a mission decision. That is why we asked at the time of the extension what the decision means for people and for equipment. Without wishing to enter into budgetary discussions, I do not want to talk about issues such as 'bigging'........................................................................................................................................................................ That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that participation in missions has an impact on the operational readiness of the armed forces and that the transmission of specialist functions results in deficiencies in the units and rods concerned, with direct (negative) consequences for the internal management and readiness of units;]] [[Whereas part of a political decision to participate in a mission are the longer-term consequences for operational readiness, with a view to the possible future deployment of the armed forces, including addressing the consequences of broadcasting (specialist) functions;]] [[invites the Government, in Article 100 letters or in other letters relating to the Dutch participation in missions, such as progress reports, to include and explain these consequences in their entirety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes and Mr Eijsink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-550]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u17	An extension of a mission means more men and women are about to be deployed. These are trainers who do their job under difficult conditions, pilots of F-16s who literally and figuratively operate closest to the enemy, and those who enable their colleagues to do this responsible job. The PvdA Group supports the cabinet decision to extend this mission, and it wishes to see all those who are currently contributing or are about to do so, strong and a sustained return. Of course, my group also wishes the home front every strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u18	Mr. Chairman. Every day we are confronted with the suffering caused by ISIS in Syria and Iraq. Every day we get reports of refugees and displaced persons. The propaganda of ISIS continues to reach our own young people on a daily basis. Often these stories are tempting. That's disappointing, and that's terrifying, too. D66 was and is of the opinion that, in the event of such a threat, we cannot stand on the sidelines. The Dutch contribution to this fight against ISIS, with F-16s and with trainers, is just as necessary as it was a year ago. The liberation of cities, the reduction of ISIS, the destruction of equipment: the Netherlands has been able to make a modest but important contribution to all these matters, of course within the coalition. Mr Ten Broeke has already said that. However, it is worrying that the broader strategy is really failing. Yesterday, the Chamber and the Cabinet held a wide-ranging debate on this matter. I would like to reiterate the problems: the Shiite militias, the marginalisation of the Sunnis, the wood rope equipment of the Kurds and Iraq's lack of fighting will. Widely shared was also the observation that more was needed from our own coalition to fight against foreign fighters, to fight against the funding of ISIS, but also to counter that hateful propaganda. There are serious concerns about this. In that light, I would like to ask the cabinet again, as I did earlier during the Rule 100 debate, to do everything possible, military, political and humanitarian. I would like to ask the two ministers present here today and the minister who is not here today to show the greatest possible personal political commitment. In this context, I have two more questions. The first is whether Turkey shares information on travellers and travellers with agencies such as INTERPOL and Europol, so that foreign fighters can be combated elsewhere as well. If not, why not? The second question is whether the cabinet is prepared to do more, whether or not in a coalition context, to support the peshmergas in Iraq. As the cabinet has already said, support in the form of weapons and ammunition is not available to the cabinet itself. But perhaps the cabinet has the financial means to enable the Kurds to do more themselves. I have signed a motion for a resolution on this subject by Mr Knops. There has also been talk of Syria. There is now a mandate. It's a narrow path with ifs and buts. However, the cabinet is currently saying that there is no broad political strategy. However, if the Chamber asks about the terms of that strategy, then the cabinet is silent. Then there's annoying reaction. I believe that the cabinet is doing this quite wrongly, especially since the Minister of Defense, I think it was speculating in the media today about plans to bomb over Syria. This raises the question of whether there is a lack of a strategy, or whether the cabinet has simply not done the homework yet. In that context, I would also like to ask the following question. I've been suggesting it for the third time. Resolution 2209 states that Chapter 7 measures are possible if Assad continues to throw vascular bombs. What chapter 7 measures does the government intend to take in response to this continuing bombing? I come to the humanitarian aspect. We all know that the war in Iraq and Syria has caused millions of people to flee. This puts enormous pressure on neighbouring countries. I call Jordan and Lebanon, but that goes equally well for Erbil and Baghdad. I understand that Guterres said that again this afternoon to his colleagues and that he did so in a convincing way. Unfortunately, I couldn't be there myself. It is clear that the government, which the Netherlands, is doing a lot when it comes to receiving refugees in the region, but the question is whether it is enough. After the recess, I would like to receive a letter from the cabinet on how the Netherlands can provide more structural support to those countries in the region that disproportionately receive many refugees. I do not mean multilaterally, but directly with governments on the ground. I'd like to get a commitment from the Cabinet on this point. I'm rounding up. D66 is convinced of the added value of this mission, which is necessary to stop the ruthless terrorist organisation ISIS and to protect citizens. That is why we must be military, political and diplomatic. That is why the D66 Group supports the extension of this mission. We wish our men and women much strength and strength in the exercise of their duties in difficult circumstances. The same goes for their home front, of course. Above all, we wish everyone a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u19	Mr. Chairman. Through the mission in Iraq, we can see that the advance of IS has stumbled upon. On a number of points there is also a certain reduction of IS. In doing so, our group can also observe that this mission has actually contributed over the past period to limiting human rights violations to genocide by the horrible organisation IS. We can also see that this issue has not yet been resolved and that there is certainly no question of the expiry of the need to continue this mission. On this basis, our group can therefore support an extension of the mission. A political agenda with a broad focus on the long-term construction of Iraq is lacking. It is essential that this is done and it is becoming increasingly essential that it is done and done well. If that stays out too long, the effect of military deployment will eventually be destroyed. Then this mission can be credited in a list of unsuccessful missions. The focus and commitment will now have to be on long-term building. Although it is understandable that this is a long-term issue, the Dutch government should now be committed to taking steps and making progress. As far as our group is concerned, particular attention should be paid to preventing revenge actions in reducing IS. It cannot be the case that revenge is taking place, even if it is the military or militias that are supported by us. That would destroy the success of the mission. It is therefore extremely important that we pay close attention to this and that we pay even more attention to it. In the first term, I asked for the options to create in any way a system of observers to gain more insight and control. I would like to ask the Secretary of Defense once again to respond to that request. The UN mandate, the UNAMI mandate, will be renewed shortly. There is also an opportunity, precisely from the UN perspective, to shape the integrated 3D approach more effectively and thus to work more towards the beginning of a peace process. I have a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u20	I think Mr Ten Broeke has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u21	I'll come back to the point of revenge. I assume that Mr Grashoff is referring in particular to the acts of vengeance committed by the Shiite militias, on which there is a great deal of concern in the Chamber. Although we all see it, we are talking about the Middle East. There's the eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is doden of gedood worden.]] So what is the solution of GroenLinks? GroenLinks supports this mission and is likely to continue to support it, but these are unfortunately the dirty hands that sometimes need to be made. What is the solution of GroenLinks to absolve the Shiite militias from revenge? Does Mr Grashoff have a solution for this? I did not get that in the debate the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u22	If I had a ready-made solution for that, I'd tear it out here and report it in detail, but I don't have one. I am looking for this point, but I can say that I assume that Mr Ten Broeke will agree with me that it is unacceptable for human rights violations to take place on a large scale under our responsibility. We have a responsibility to do everything in our power to combat this at international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u23	I share that moral indignation with Mr Grashoff, but it is not an effective strategic weapon in the fight against ISIS. Maybe I can give him a direction of resolution, even though it is probably accompanied by a lot of dirty hands. I am referring now to the involvement of Sunnis in the struggle, particularly in the province of Anbar, where they are left behind and not participating. In the past this has happened with bags of money and promises, but it is very difficult to do this again. Does GroenLinks also see reality there? Does she see that, unfortunately, in this struggle, sometimes you cannot remain completely pure in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u24	I don't think that's a good question. The realism of warfare is well known to me. At the same time, we are opposed to the commitment that we have to make to prevent this, partly because it will form the basis for new conflicts, which will ultimately sustain each other in a vicious circle. We shall have to do everything we can to prevent this from happening. I'm filing my motion now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UN mandate for UNAMI will be extended in July;]] [[noting that, at present, human rights elements, such as the safe return of refugees, are present, but still insufficient;]] [[Whereas, in order to prevent a new conflict following the defeat of ISIS in areas, it is necessary to monitor whether the right of return of fugitive residents is respected and whether revenge exercises are taking place against civilians;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to strengthening the UNAMI mandate aimed at:]] [[ensuring the right to the safe return of fugitives;]] [[monitoring and reporting on revenge actions against the civilian population;]] [[promoting a process aimed at establishing a peace plan;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-551]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u25	My group believes that at present, on the basis of the information now available and the current situation, there is no reasonable assumption that military intervention can be meaningful in Syria. My group notes that the international mandate which has now been examined is far too narrow for this, because it is based on a situation from the Iraqi perspective. Although no decision is being taken at the moment, we would like to stress that at present and under these conditions we do not see any good at all. The following is the most important aspect. If we are to carry out further research into opportunities in Syria, it must be about the importance of protecting the citizens of Syria. The protection of civilians in Iraq must not be at the expense of the security of civilians in Syria, or unintentionally have the effect of supporting the equally horrific regime of Assad. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also wishes to express its respect and appreciation for the deployment of our military forces in Iraq. We all wish for a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u26	Mr. Chairman. In general, we have discussed in detail the extension of the mission against IS. That battle is desperately needed because the threat posed by IS threatens not only the West and the Netherlands, but also very large parts of this world. That is why we must continue the efforts we have made so far and extend this mission. However, my group realizes that every time we decide to extend missions, this can only mean that we must provide the men and women of the armed forces with sufficient resources for those who have to carry out this task. The financing of such missions, and not only of the missions, but also of their preparation and the standing organisation, must be sufficient. My group is extremely critical of the way in which the previous mission was financed, but also of this mission. You can't do this next time like this. Two issues call for particular attention in this debate and were addressed in the AA. Firstly, the mandate, the international mandate. The cabinet has acknowledged that this can extend to Syria. We have discussed this at length. The cabinet has indicated that it is not yet ready to implement this. I shall table a motion on this point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that both the government and the external international legal adviser consider that there is an international legal basis for attacking ISIS in Syria, within the framework of Iraq's collective self-defense;]] [[Considering that the Government considers a broad-based political strategy for Syria, as well as a joint approach by EU countries, to be important in the shaping of thoughts on the possible military deployment of the Netherlands over Syria;]] [[Considering that the Government considers Iraq and Syria as a single area of operation in the fight against ISIS, and also expressed political support for the action of the coalition against ISIS in Syria;]] [[Whereas it is difficult to imagine in the short term that major steps can be taken towards political transition in Syria, including through a lack of willingness to negotiate with the warring parties in Syria, as well as the divisions within the Syrian opposition, the countries in the region as well as among permanent members of the UN Security Council;]] [[calls on the Government, a widely-supported political strategy for Syria, as well as a joint approach to EU countries, to use as desirable but not necessary condition in the decision-making process on the possible military deployment of the Netherlands over Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u27	Second. My group has also raised the issue of peshmerga. We send our best people, our best trainers to train the peshmerga, who are the vanguard in the fight against ISIS. We have seen this with our own eyes; Mr Ten Broeke has already spoken about it. We have noticed that they must do so with very modest and limited resources. With the same or a little bit more effort, the effectiveness of the peshmerga as a first line can be considerably enhanced. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is making an important effort to train the Kurdish peshmerga in Iraq and to deploy highly capable trainers for this purpose;]] [[Considers that the peshmerga in Iraq is an important ally in the fight against IS;]] [[noting that the peshmerga is equipped with highly outdated and defective weapons and lacks, inter alia, ammunition, medical equipment and connectors;]] [[Whereas the availability of high-quality weapons and ammunition significantly increases the effectiveness of the peshmerga and hence the training efforts;]] [[Whereas the supply of arms to the peshmerga is currently difficult, inter alia because the current process through the Iraqi Government in Baghdad is slow and bureaucratic;]] [[calls on the government to promote the joint commitment of the coalition to improve the coordination and effectiveness of arms and other supplies for the peshmerga in Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Voordewind.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-553]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u28	The CDA Group believes that the fight against ISIS should continue unabated. That is why we will vote in favour of this mission. We wish all the soldiers, men and women, every success in this mission, which is often carried out under difficult conditions. Of course, we also include the home front. Through this commitment, Dutch soldiers play a crucial role in the fight against IS. It will take just as long until IS is defeated, because that is an interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u29	Madam President. Earlier this week, we had a good debate on the cabinet decision to extend the Dutch contribution against terrorism of ISIS until October 2016. I do not want to repeat this debate. I would just like to draw the political conclusion in particular. That political conclusion is that the SGP fully supports this decision of the Cabinet. It lay on my lips to say: 'Happily supports', but I hesitated, because there is always something of pain in the heart when we have to resort to military violence, with all the consequences of that, if the path of persuasion and conversation is not successful. We also realise that with these missions we always expose men and women we broadcast to dangers. That is why I did not use the words 'happily', but I would like to stress that we fully support this cabinet decision, because it must be done. The horrors of ISIS must be stopped, for the people there, but also for our safety here. I would like to make two comments in this conclusion. The first concerns an issue that we also discussed in the debate, namely whether or not to act on Syrian territory. I would like to conclude on behalf of the SGP that if it is necessary for an effective fight against ISIS in Iraq to take action over Syrian territory, my group will have no objection to it, if it does not produce unacceptable side effects, I would add. That is the formula by which the SGP Group will assess the government's possible further decision-making. I would like to move on another point to underline the importance of offering the prospect of minorities in areas first driven out by ISIS and then trying to return to areas where ISIS itself could be driven out. In practice, it is extremely difficult for them to get their feet back on the ground. I did not hear that until an international conference, where I spoke with a Member of Parliament from Iraq. I have promised to bring forth their care and pain in this Parliament. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on the so-called Ninivé plain many Christians, Yazidis, Shabaks and other religious and ethnic minorities were horribly expelled by IS;]] [[Whereas at present these groups have little prospect of staying in Iraq and increasingly seeking refuge in Europe or elsewhere;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, internationally, the return of these refugees to the Ninivé plain and, wherever possible, to support them in both humanitarian and material terms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Voordewind and Mr Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-554]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u30	I have a question to clarify the intention of this motion. The government is asked to promote the return of these groups to the Ninivé plain. There has been talk earlier about setting up a safe harbour or about a no-fly zone. What is the intention of this motion? What are you asking for in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u31	That's another discussion. There was also the question of whether you should not set up a very special area. That is another political discussion. It is good that Mr Van Bommel points that out. This motion concerns people who lived there before, who were happy that they had a place there, were then driven out by ISIS and are now trying to come back, now that ISIS has been driven out there again. That's very difficult for them. In the motion they are requested to help them return to their original residence. That's the limited scope of this motion. Finally, I would like in particular to welcome all the Dutch soldiers, the trainers who go there and wish their home fronts a good contribution and that they may return. I wish them God's protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u32	The atrocities of ISIS must be stopped in a more powerful and effective way than has been the case so far. To this end, an international mandate to combat ISIS in Syria is now also leading. But there is still a lack of political support and a political strategy in Europe. Nor is the Christian Union Group in favour of an all-inclusive approach to the Netherlands and wants a clear strategy for what we want to achieve and how we will prevent the civilian population from being even worse off in the course of intervention. That was also the great lesson of the intervention in Iraq. There are currently no reliable partners in Syria with which we can cooperate on the ground, except the Kurds. This is also reflected in the action of the Americans, who closely coordinate the bombings and air support with the Kurds in Syria. Meanwhile, the British Defence Minister has also expressed his intention to combat ISIS by air in Syria. Does the Foreign Minister know these considerations? Does the Minister know what his motives are and what his vision of the political strategy is? Is the Minister prepared to ask about this if he does not know it yet and to inform the Chamber about it? In my first term, I said on behalf of the Christian Union Group that it was not a question for us whether the mission should be extended, but in what way. ISIS must be combated more effectively than has been the case so far. The Kurds in both Iraq and Syria must be better equipped for this. In line with this, I fully agree with Mr Knops' motion. If we really want ISIS to be combated, the Kurds in Iraq must be better equipped. That means more ammunition and better armament. This applies not only to the Kurds in Iraq, but also to the Kurds in Syria. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Parliament last 11 March. adopted a resolution calling for support for the Kurds in Syria, for the Americans to coordinate the air attacks with the Kurds in Syria and for the Netherlands to support the moderate forces, including the Kurds, with EUR 3 million;]] [[Considering that there is now an adequate international mandate in accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter to combat ISIS also in Syria;]] [[Whereas the Kurdish armed forces within Syria can be regarded as moderate, that they have so far proved to be very effective in the fight against ISIS and that they cooperate, inter alia, with minorities;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the possibilities, and to gain support from allies, to further support the Kurds in Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-555]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u33	Finally, I am tabling a motion on the protection of minorities in the Ninivé plain, a little in line with Mr Van der Staaij's motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the Minister will examine the possibilities for supporting the Kurdish Regional Government and Peshmerga in Iraq in the fight against ISIS; Considering that the controversial status of large parts of Ninivé Province and rival claims of the government in Baghdad and the Kurdish Regional Government, strongly contribute to the potential for new violent conflicts, as well as forced return or selective resettlement of IDPs (displaced); calls on the Government to lay down conditions for such aid, including respect for the right of return of displaced persons, as well as adequate protection for displaced persons on their return to the Ninivé plain, when exploring possibilities for assistance to the Kurdish Regional Government; and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 556 (27925).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u34	In conclusion. Now that the mission will be extended, with the support of the Christian Union, I wish the Dutch military who will be deployed, very much strength and a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u35	Mr. Chairman. Previous speakers have consistently talked about the so-called "Islamic State" or "ISIS." This is not in line with reality. We are dealing with a terrorist movement, and the largest number of victims are Muslims. As we speak, this so-called "Islamic State" is fighting during the Ramadan, the Islamic month of peace. He even attacks mosques on Fridays. If we use the term "Islamic State," that is corn on the mill of a terrorist group that uses Islam as a cover for its terrible acts. I'm not the only one with this opinion. The British House of Commons and Prime Minister Cameron also agreed yesterday to refer to the so-called 'Islamic State' as 'Daesh'. The same applies to France and Turkey. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the so-called "Islamic State" is incompatible with Islam and is a very inappropriate and misplaced name for the counterproductive terrorist guerrilla in the Middle East;]] [[noting that countries such as the United Kingdom, France and Turkey now call this terrorist organisation "Daesh," an Arab abbreviation for "Al Dawla al-Islamyia fil Iraq wa'al Sham";]] [[Considering that this will have a positive impact on the image of Muslims who have nothing to do with this terrorist organisation and want to be involved;]] [[calls on the Government, the current terminology such as "Islamic State', "IS', "IS' or "ISIL', to henceforth call "Daesh' in public communications and to ask public service broadcasters to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-557]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u36	I could, of course, comment on the scale of the problem in the Middle East and its naming, but I would rather not. I do have a question about the operative part. Of course, you can ask the government to do something and perhaps the government would also like to mediate, but Mr Kuzu is asking the government to give public service broadcasting a mandate. I'm asking him how he sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u37	It's public service broadcasting, so it's your network and so is my network. In the operative part, I would like the government to do this. So it's meant as a request, not as an order. I assume that public service broadcasting in these kinds of issues, where there is a picture and sentiment, has quite an ear for what the people's representatives and the cabinet say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u38	In that case, a serious question about this. I very much cherish the independence of our media and hope that the cabinet will do the same. Why should the cabinet or this parliament ask the public service broadcaster or journalists to do something or to carry out their profession in a different way? I find this a very strange request. If the request remains that way, my group will therefore not be able to vote in favour of your motion, although I do like the spirit of the rest of the motion, although I do not think that is the main point of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u39	I understand that and will take it with me in my consideration. I am concerned that what we are doing here in Parliament should give us a picture. Then the media must have the same image of the Islamic State or ISIS. You should definitely not see that as an assignment, but as a request. I hope that the Dutch media will also listen to this debate and understand the sentiment, given the example of the United Kingdom and France. What has been the result of the war on terror since 2001: more or less terror? The bombs are counterproductive. That must be clear by now. I think we should stop Dutch participation in that military mission. What does the Dutch contribution add? Our strength lies in diplomacy, reconstruction and development, not in throwing bombs. The situation in Afghanistan and Iraq has taught us that throwing bombs and then leaving doesn't solve anything. The more you bomb without a long-term strategy, the more you disrupt countries; the more you disrupt countries, the more you feed terrorist movements. This increases the risk of attacks in the Netherlands. This is also clear from the letters of the Minister for Security and Justice. So we propose to stop throwing bombs, stop macho behaviour and stop the cycle of violence that responds to violence that reacts to violence once again. The war on terror is not working and has already killed 1 million people in Iraq and Afghanistan alone. We are opposed to any form of violence, but we also know that the military mission will continue. That is why we wish our soldiers, our boys and girls good luck and a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u40	This brings to an end the first and last term of the Chamber. This was actually the third term. The directors have asked for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u41	I will reopen the sitting and give the floor to the Foreign Minister for his answers and assessment of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u42	Madam President. I would like to thank Members for the questions put and the comments they have made and for the broad support that exists in the Chamber for the Article 100 letter before us. I think we have had a very good debate. I do not think I want to go back on all aspects, not only in view of the time, but also in view of the adverse effects that would have on the decision-making process ahead. There are a few points left. I believe that everyone agrees that this important struggle must be continued, that we have military, political and development resources, that they must be properly coordinated, that this struggle is not yet over and that we should, above all, give our soldiers who work hard there every support to do that important work. This is both in the interests of the people in the region and essential for our own Dutch citizens. The fight against ISIS is a long one. ISIS will have to be fought hard. This fight will have to contribute to preventing and ending human rights violations and to protecting the civilian population in the region and the people here in Europe and in the Netherlands. We also discussed in the debate the different traces and the way in which they interact. We have talked about the problems in Iraq and Syria, how they are partly interrelated and partly different and how we deal with them in international law. There are different opinions about this. We've shared it extensively over the past few days. I think it has been a very good and important debate, in which we have also come quite close to each other. That doesn't apply to everyone. Of course, there are also groups that find it difficult to support this, in all legitimacy. But everyone has said that we support the people who need to do this important work. Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes stressed the importance of the political strategy in Iraq and Syria. It is important that the Dutch government is also very proactive in this regard, when it comes to inclusiveness, the leaders of Sunni tribals and actually stimulating it, and so you even want to proactively intervene in a political way to ensure that the army in Iraq becomes more unambiguous. We must also ensure that the relationship between the Kurds in the north and the government in Baghdad remains sound. We need to support this and we need to realise that there are also interests of the various regional powers that do not always benefit the situation in Iraq. We're very alert about that. I can see the support of the Chamber to shape this both in Iraq and in Syria, within the possibilities that the Netherlands has together with our partners in the alliance, in the European Union, and, of course, transatlantic. Having said that, I would like to comment on the motions. However, I would first like to comment on a question from Mr Voordewind about the debate in the United Kingdom. The information presented by Mr Voordewind is incorrect. There have been two debates in the United Kingdom. There has indeed been a debate on the word 'daesh', which Prime Minister Cameron has been quite supportive of. The other debate actually followed exactly the same lines as the debate we have had here. The government in the UK has said: because there is a new government and a new parliament, we are going to look again at that question about Syria. So it has exactly the same angle of view as we have. There has been no concrete proposal on the table. There has also been no anticipation of any decision-making. It has also been said that we are going to examine with the allies whether that makes sense or not. There has been no mention of a timetable either. The same question has been raised in the United Kingdom's Parliament with regard to the reasons for international law, but we are one step ahead of them. That is what has been asked, also in connection with the debate in England on the war in Iraq: can the Attorney-General not look at it? That is where we are looking at the situation from a particular point of view. For the same reasons, it is important to look closely at it. In that debate, I would not like to end up with anything quite different than the conclusion that we, as a government, have drawn. The cabinet notes that the presence of an international legal basis in itself is not sufficient to decide on a Dutch military effort over Syria. A broad political strategy to resolve the conflict in Syria is currently lacking. The cabinet will closely monitor the outcome of international initiatives, including discussions between opposition groups and the UN consultation process in Geneva, in which the Netherlands also participates. The cabinet will also follow the training efforts for the armed Syrian opposition of, for example, the United Kingdom, the United States, Turkey and Qatar. Dutch support in Syria now focuses on supporting De Mistura's efforts. The Netherlands also supports the moderate groups. If the cabinet decides to engage in military action in Syria, the Chamber will be informed in good time. In doing so, the Cabinet underlines the importance of a joint approach by EU countries. We have also written this in the Article 100 letter. In that light, I would also like to express an opinion on the motions. We do not impose any further conditions in that letter. We are talking about a number of important considerations. As Mr Ten Broeke rightly said, the initiative lies with the government to inform the Chamber by means of an Article 100 letter when it considers it appropriate to transmit. However, we felt it necessary to inform the Chamber of this international opinion and to give a more detailed description of the situation in Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u43	I don't know what sources the Foreign Minister uses. I do have a quote here from the British Secretary of Defense, Michael Fallon. He says: the extremist needed to be targeted at source. That's what he means by Syria. He also says in this document that he will now present this to Parliament. Depending on the consent of the parliament, he will or will not continue. This shows that the Minister of Defence, on behalf of the cabinet, intends to bomb in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u44	It seems that Mr Voordewind knows better than we do on the basis of the contacts we have with the ministers there. I don't know exactly what's going on in the press. In any case, this is the picture we have, including the contacts with the United Kingdom. That makes sense, too. Every government looks at it that way. Everyone sees that it is an urgent matter, that there is one military theatre and that there are important political considerations at the same time. Those considerations have also been discussed in detail: where is the source, how can you best deal with them? Of course, so does the English cabinet. We need to look at what this means, including the situation in Syria. We can talk endlessly about this, but the government remains firm in its position as described very accurately and precisely in the Article 100 letter. We have already had that debate. I would have the motion-De Roon in part number. 546 for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u45	We are going back to Mr Voordewind first. He has another follow-up question to your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u46	The quote I mentioned was from a few hours ago. If the Minister says he has more recent information, which comes directly from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or from the Ministry of Defence, I'll take it from him. But I ask him once again whether he has not heard of the intention or of a plan to bomb in Syria that would be submitted to him. I am not saying that they are doing it to the British Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u47	First of all, there are comments from the United Kingdom Minister for Defence. Mr Voordewind can rest assured that what I say is based on the contacts we have with the United Kingdom. They have reported to us how they stand in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u48	Before the Minister continues to assess my motion, I have a question about his speech so far. Is it true that if there is no prospect of a political strategy in Syria in the direction of a successful outcome there, then under no circumstances will the government decide to take military action against ISIS in Syria? Even if it takes until January, the government will not do so. Did I get that correctly? Or are there conditions under which this could happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u49	Mr De Roon did not understand that correctly. The essence of the importance of this debate is precisely that I do not allow myself to be tempted to set precise benchmarks and to make statements on how things will end. It may well be necessary for another reason. We believe that political and military means belong together. I see what is happening in Geneva with realistic glasses. I also see the debate we have had on the risks and opportunities. The government rules. If the cabinet will decide on military deployment in Syria, the Chamber will, of course, be informed in good time. I'm not putting any conditions on that right now. I won't exactly finish a list. I have learned from the past and from years of experience in peacekeeping operations that this is not a good plan. We have a review framework. That's what we're looking at. On this basis, the government will inform the Chamber if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u50	Then I notice that we've come a long way. Even if there is no prospect of a political strategy pointing towards a good solution for Syria, the government may decide to take military action against Islamic State in Syria. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u51	All I'm saying is that this isn't obvious. I'm not going to pass criteria in all kinds of ways. I think we've been very clear. This is about an article 100 letter that has nothing to do with Syria, but with Iraq. We have made a judgment on what we consider to be important in international law. I would like to say once again, also in the direction of the CDA Group, that this is not suddenly a new vision, but it is based on those elements that relate to one military theatre. As I said, if the cabinet were to decide on military deployment in Syria, the Chamber would be informed in good time. In that light, I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u52	You mean the motion in part No. 546.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u53	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u54	I wonder whether the Minister understands the thrust of the motion. It asks nothing but that the government either brings forward an article 100 letter aimed at military action against ISIS in Syria, or a message saying that it does not want to, or does not want to, and that the reasons for that are put out again. That is the only thing this motion asks: either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u55	Again, I'm dissuading the motion. I like to choose my own words and not the words in the motion. We've told you what we're doing. If the cabinet decides on military deployment in Syria, the Chamber will be informed in good time. That is the government's choice of words based on the review framework in Article 100. So I do not need motions that take a different approach or use different language. I believe that we should be very precise when it comes to broadcasting missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u56	The Minister is always right when he says he chooses his own words. I also note, however, that he is cycling completely around the scope and intention of my motion and simply does not respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u57	I deny that. I thought that in recent debates I also discussed Mr De Roon's reasoning quite thoroughly. Unfortunately, for a large part, we disagree. In this sense, I cannot go along with Mr De Roon's motion. The motion in part No. 547 will be dealt with by the Minister of Defence. That brings me to the motion on part No. 548, by Mr Van Bommel. First of all, I would like to say that Turkey is a country which, as may well be known, receives 1.6 million refugees. They take on a very great responsibility. I have had the opportunity today to discuss with Mr Gutiérrez that people are being welcomed very warmly in Turkey. It might be important to say that. The cabinet is familiar with the various reports about possible support from Turkey to jihadist organisations in Syria and Iraq. Those messages do show up at regular intervals. However, they remain unconfirmed messages, which have also been repeatedly denied by the Turkish authorities. In addition, Turkey has every interest in combating terrorism. It itself has repeatedly become the victim. During the Turkish election campaign, bombs exploded in southern Turkey which were believed to have been laid by ISIS supporters. The fact that Turkey cannot close a border of almost 900 kilometres due to sometimes inaccessible terrain to 100% is obvious. So we need to work on that. At a time when the border crossing at Tel Abyad on the Syrian side is no longer in the hands of ISIS... and it is still unclear exactly how the relations there lie.... can be expected that it will be more difficult to smuggle arms or persons across the border. I do not therefore see any reason to respond to requests for an international investigation into the Turkish role in the fight against ISIS, or to argue in favour of it. There is no international support for this either. Mr Van Bommel also asked for an independent international investigation. However, he should not ask the government to give the order to do so. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u58	My group, too, greatly appreciates Turkey's efforts to accommodate large groups of refugees; there is no misunderstanding about this. I do wonder why the government states that the reports are known, but that there is no confirmation of them if the government does not wish to contribute in any way to a possible confirmation or to contradict them. I may ask the Minister: does he think it is important to have certainty about this? If these messages are correct, do we have a very big problem with Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u59	As you know, I won't go into questions like that. It's about unconfirmed messages. We are, of course, in constant contact with the coalition partner Turkey is in the fight against ISIS. Then it makes no sense for a coalition partner to ask for an independent international investigation. That seems to me to be a contradiction in terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u60	Let there be no misunderstanding about the intention of this motion. The Minister says: how can you ask for an independent investigation? I mean, of course, a study which is not carried out by Turkey in the first place. Turkey is a NATO ally. Research is often carried out in countries that are members of NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u61	Your explanation is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u62	I would like to thank Mr Van Bommel for his further qualification of the research. His interpretation of what should be an independent investigation is apparently only that Turkey itself is not involved. That, too, seems to me to be wrong. I think it is important that Turkey should be involved if it is already desirable. I think the most important thing is that we have no cause for international research, given the way in which we can gather information. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u63	That has actually been the standard reaction of the past Cabinets: we have not been able to confirm it. Do you mind if I turn it around? Is the Minister satisfied with the way in which Turkey shares information with Interpol and Europol about persons who may or may not travel across Turkey's border area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u64	We have many contacts with Turkey, because we consider it important, also in the light of the possible departures of Dutch citizens to Iraq, to maintain close relations with Turkey. Then it is not the most logical thing to say: we do not trust you and are going to conduct an independent investigation. But apart from that: if the Netherlands has information about persons who have been identified as travellers, Turkey then uses the Interpol channel to inform the Netherlands about this. In addition, Turkey is very cooperative at Interpol meetings. Turkey has regularly shared with us an overview of foreign terrorist fighters. I think that is the essence: if we want to serve the Dutch interests, we will want to strengthen cooperation further. I also think that cooperation is getting better and better. We need very much cooperation with a number of countries in the region, precisely in order to combat effectively the major problem of foreign terrorist fighters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u65	Cooperation is getting better and we need to intensify it, okay? The question was: are we currently satisfied with Turkey's cooperation with Interpol and Europol?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u66	The answer is yes. I believe I have the motion in part No. 549 by Mr Van Bommel have been coming by many times. That is happening again now and I will re-dissuade the motion. The PKK is on the EU list of terrorist organisations. Within the EU, there is no willingness to remove the PKK from the list, given the high number of deaths and attacks. The Netherlands still sees the PKK as a terrorist organisation. Of course, we consider it important to continue the peace talks and to ensure that this leads to a positive outcome. We have also called for this, both in the Turkish Government and in indirect contacts with the various Kurdish parties in Turkey. The motion in part No. 550 will be dealt with by the Minister of Defence. Then I come to a question from Mr Sjoerdsma. The question is about Resolution 2209. I thought, frankly, that I had already dealt with that question during the general consultation. It is about that great problem of the dictator where we have these days, it has made me somewhat strange, actually very few words dirty, namely Assad. The OPCW confirms that chlorine attacks are part of a "chemical weapon," so to speak. Chlorine as such is not a prohibited substance, but chlorine gas as a weapon is obviously not accepted in armed conflicts. As Mr Sjoerdsma knows, the OPCW itself has no mandate to identify those responsible for the use of chlorine gas. However, only Assad has helicopters associated with chlorine gas bombs. This is therefore resolution 2209. This is one of the dossiers I have discussed with the Russians in order to ensure that they are not opposed to that point in Chapter VII. Resolution 2209 does not automatically imply action under Chapter VII of the Charter. This requires a new UN Security Council decision. But of course Dutch is opposed to the use of these weapons. Wherever we can, we are putting pressure on that, as I have just mentioned in an example. The work of the OPCW is essential. Not much has been achieved in Syria in terms of the protection of the population. Let's be honest about that. But at least there is a UN 1 resolution, tabled by Luxembourg, on humanitarian access. In any case, it has led to effective action in relation to chemical weapons. It is now a matter of ensuring that the action on Resolution 2209 is actually implemented. Then I come to a point that I very much agree with. We were extensively briefed this morning and this afternoon by Mr Gutiérrez. I could talk about that for a long time, but I don't, given the time. The House can rest assured that the Dutch Government, including my colleague Ploumen, has a very personal commitment to Jordan and Lebanon. In addition to the commitment we have as a major donor, we are, of course, committed to a more integrated, structural use of aid for the reception of refugees in the region. Two accents are laid. Firstly, there is more attention and space for the self-reliance of refugees to enable them to provide their own livelihoods. Secondly, we are trying to balance aid to refugees with support to the communities in the host countries, which are often affected by the influx of large numbers of refugees, who must use the same facilities. The policy is currently being developed in concrete terms, focusing on the neighbouring countries of Syria and the Horn of Africa. I think we have also discussed this with Minister Ploumen in the context of a number of other debates, such as the asylum debate we have had here. It is clear that Jordan and Lebanon bear a heavy burden, with the reception of 620,000 and 1.5 million Syrian refugees respectively. It's a drama. We have all been in that region: my colleague from Defence and Minister Ploumen. The Netherlands will also continue to provide humanitarian aid to Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries and host communities, according to possibilities and reasonableness. Development cooperation does not involve temporary partner countries. However, the bet has been determined, with your Room, for the longer term. The cabinet is therefore not in favour of identifying temporary partner countries, but will consider the possibility of additional aid to Jordan and Lebanon. Then I come to the motion on part No. 551 of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. The points in that motion are in line with the Dutch commitment in this matter. They are also in line with the activities of UNAMI and other UN actors. I must tell you, however, that changes to the mandate of the United Nations are generally very difficult. However, in view of the nature and the text of the motion, I would like to leave it to the House to decide. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Knops. I would advise against this for the same reason as Mr De Roon's motion. The application in the operative part is premature. We said the cabinet's up. That is what I said in response to Mr De Roon's motion. I will therefore inform the Chamber, where necessary, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 100, as we have already said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u67	That request may be premature in the eyes of the Minister. However, in an interview today, the Minister of Defence said that bombing should not be made dependent on a comprehensive and comprehensive strategy. "Because then you can wait until midnight," says the Minister, wondering who exactly is St. Juttemis. So the question is what exactly is the Minister's problem with this operative part? I get the idea, also from the little debate between Mr De Roon and Mr Ten Broeke, that there is a misconception that the Chamber should not give any consideration to the cabinet, where the cabinet obviously has its own decision-making powers. The cabinet informs the Chamber of its decision by means of an article 100 letter. But that does not deprive the Chamber of the right to think and to give things to the cabinet, especially if the government gives reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u68	Of course not. The Chamber can give you anything. I thought that has been the case in recent days in the debate. I note, however, that Mr Knops also has his own language. He refers in his motion to 'as desirable but not necessary condition'. He read the letter well. We consider the political strategy and also a common approach of EU countries to be important in a political assessment under Article 100. We have not made a separate condition of this, but that is one of the many factors that will be assessed. Mr Knops now consolidates it to specific points that he fits into "wishful," "not necessary" and so on. The only thing we have found is that there is an international mandate, that there is one military theatre, that there is also overlap in the field of politics, that there are a number of initiatives in the United Nations that I believe are essential, that any military strategy includes a political strategy and that only in this way can the military instrument work effectively. On this basis, the government will, where necessary, inform the Chamber in an Article 100 letter. The language in the motion is not the language of the government, I repeat. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u69	The problem is not so much that the operative part of the CDA motion is unclear, but that the letter from the cabinet is completely unclear. It recognises that there is an international mandate, but then adds that we do need a common political strategy. Now I would like to draw attention to a statement from the Secretary of Defense. She says that the cabinet cannot make decision-making dependent on a broad-based strategy because we can then wait until the end of the day. For the sake of clarity, I very much agree with that. But if the Minister of Defence says this, then if we take the principle of unity of government policy as the basis for my motion, can the Minister of Foreign Affairs not now, in this way, discourage the operative part of my motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u70	In the first place, Mr Knops explained the words of the Minister for Defence. She will speak herself later. Yes, the cabinet policy is unambiguous. The Chamber has also been clearly informed. Everyone thinks it is important that an article 100 letter is written on the basis of a number of elements. Where necessary, we will send it to the Chamber at the right time. Mr Knops now wants to check out certain specific elements. There's no way I'm gonna be tempted to do that. That's not the way we handle military missions. I thought we had all learned that in the past, but apparently that is not the case. At least I think the operative part is premature. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u71	Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u72	The motion in part No. 553 will be dealt with by the Minister of Defence. That brings me to the Van der Staaij and others motion. in piece No. 554. Let me point out that, of course, the cabinet is aware of the serious problems of many refugees as a result of the situation in Iraq and Syria and more specifically in the Ninivé plain. I think it is right that minorities are particularly vulnerable here, even when it comes to return. We do not distinguish between groups of people and those who follow different religions. However, what Mr Van der Staaij is saying is certainly correct; this is certainly true for Christians too. The Netherlands, through its working group on stabilisation, is committed to creating conditions for safe return. This means that, after an area has been liberated from ISIS, it is necessary to ensure that there is a sufficiently safe environment and a rapid restoration of basic facilities so that fleeing groups can return. Let me come back to the importance of the 3D approach. So that is also a military approach. If you do not ensure that there is also directly stabilisation, you will immediately have a problem in the next phase. Inclusiveness is the key word. Demographic engineering, as it is sometimes called, must therefore be avoided. The Netherlands also contributes to stabilisation and return through financial contributions to mine-mining projects. The Mines Advisory Group and Handicap International are already funded by the Netherlands in Iraq. They will soon receive additional funds to expand their activities, including in the recently recaptured areas. The additional projects aim to ensure safe access of returned IDPs to secure areas and to reduce the number of deaths and injuries caused by war remnants. In addition, the Cabinet underlines the importance of reconciliation, including in the context of return. To this end, we are financing a project of UNAMI together with Germany. This is aimed at supporting the Iraqi government in adapting and designing legislation relevant for reconciliation. The Netherlands also contributes to humanitarian aid. As announced on 24 June, we are making an additional contribution to the United Nations. This brings the total Dutch contribution to emergency humanitarian aid in Iraq to 28.3 million since June 2014. In view of this, I consider this motion to support policy. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 555. That's a complicated motion. The government is invited to explore the possibilities and gain support from allies to further support the Kurds in Syria. Let me say first of all that the Syrian Kurds are not a homogeneous group. It may not be good to fall into sectarianism by saying: we are going to support that group or that group. We are also concerned about reports of human rights violations by, among other things, the YPG. We spoke about this yesterday. We disagree on this. I really think there's enough news about that. In addition, the cabinet notes that there are links between the PKK and several armed Kurdish groups. I said they were on the list of terrorist groups. Apart from international law aspects, it makes the supply of weapons at least problematic. In that light, I advise against the motion. There is also a problem in the observation. The claim that the Netherlands supports the moderate forces, including the Kurds, with 3 million, is to be borne by Mr Voordewind. That's not a ruling from the cabinet. In the interest of the security of the parties involved in Dutch aid, the cabinet does not at present make any statements about the groups supported. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u73	This is a quote from the minister himself. He said that in a debate we had a year ago. The Minister said: in addition to the moderate forces, we also support the Kurds in Syria with 3 million. That is why the statement has been formulated in this way. The motion does not call for military support, but for the investigation of possibilities to support the Kurds in Syria. So it's very carefully formulated research motion-like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u74	But I still find it difficult. The Syrian Kurds are not a homogeneous group. I am not in favour of giving money to separate groups, unless it serves a military purpose as we do with the Peshmergas, for example. In addition, the Kurds there are controlled by the YPG. There are violations of human rights. In the context of everything we do, therefore, I do not regard this as a priority and do not recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u75	Then I cannot make the Minister's previous remark. Earlier in the debate he said: we support the moderate forces and the Kurds by 3 million. Actually, that's what I've been working on. I am therefore not talking about'supporting', but about'supporting further'. Perhaps we did not understand each other correctly in that debate, but that is how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u76	I think this has been a misunderstanding. I hope that this has been corrected, but I am not in favour of spending additional funds on it separately at the moment. So I'm not suggesting the motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 556 by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. It invites the Government to impose conditions on this aid, including respect for the right of return of IDPs and adequate protection of IDPs upon return to the Ninivé plain, when exploring the possibilities for assistance to Kurdish Regional Government. We are indeed examining the possibilities of additional support for the Iraqi armed forces, as will be discussed in the response of the Minister of Defence. However, in general terms, the Netherlands only supports those parties that respect human rights. It is really not customary to add separate conditions to that. This does not mean, I say immediately, that the right to return IDPs is not an important issue. On the contrary, Mr Voordewind is quite right. The safe return of IDPs and the protection of IDPs is very important. According to the Cabinet, the imposition of conditions on the provision of material support is not the best way to ensure that the authorities respect this interest. I do not think it will work if we attach a number of conditions to our support in this way. In my view, the Netherlands is doing this more strongly by calling on the Kurdish regional government and also the government in Baghdad bilaterally and coalitionly on the rights of the IDPs and the obligation to provide the IDPs with the necessary protection. The establishment of conditions also entails the risk of a form of sectarianism. I really don't think this is the most effective way. As part of stabilisation, the coalition raises the issue of return with the Iraqi authorities. I think that is important, but I do not think it is right to say specifically that we attach a special policy of conditions to it. The motion is sympathetic, but I have to dissuade her because of the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u77	Before I give the floor to Mr Voordewind, I would like to point out, for the Acts, that 'IDPs' are referred to in Dutch as 'impatriotics'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u78	That's correct. I understand from the Minister's words that he says that this is being closely monitored, because it is important that these minorities can return, including to Ninivé, that there is no selection and that people can also return safely. That is, of course, in the operative part of the motion. If the Minister says that this is taken into account in discussions with the Kurds, I can withdraw the motion. Can the Minister confirm this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u79	Sure. We will make a real commitment to this. I think that is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u80	Since the motion-Voordewind c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u81	On the motion in part No. 557, tabled by Mr Kuzu, I can say a few things. The subject raised in the motion was also the subject of a debate in the House of Commons yesterday. We have previously agreed on this in the coalition. The best thing to do is to talk about "Daesh." In that sense, I am sympathetic to the motion. I believe that Prime Minister Cameron said very well in the House of Commons yesterday, or perhaps it was this afternoon. I understand what the motion says. Every time they talk about "Islamic State," that name is being pumped in more and more. In that sense, I am in favour of the motion. We are already doing so in the motion, because all international meetings only talk about 'Daesh'. Well, I do have a problem with the motion. I refer to Mr Sjoerdsma's remark that we cannot put thought police on it. There is also such a thing as the free possibility of public service broadcasting to use the terms he wants. However, we in the coalition have agreed to use the word 'Daesh'. "ISIL" is also used, because this word does not directly have that specific connotation. Let us also say immediately that 'Daesh' also has exactly the same number of words that refer to Islam. In that sense, it remains a terrorist organisation, whatever it calls itself. However, I understand the point. We have also discussed this with the United Kingdom and the coalition before. I must nevertheless discourage the motion, because I cannot accept a request to the government to ask the public broadcasters to do or not to do something. I believe that the case mentioned in the motion cannot be imposed. However, I consider it important for public communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u82	Nor was it my intention to impose that on public service broadcasting. If there's a misunderstanding about that, I'd be happy to get it out of here. I also understand that the motion is too far, in the light of the comments made by Mr Sjoerdsma. I therefore propose that the phrase 'and ask public service broadcasting to do the same' be deleted from the operative part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u83	You're changing the motion now. You're deleting "and asking public service broadcasters to do the same."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u84	I will delete that from the text and I assume that the judgment will be'support policy'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u85	The amended Kuzu motion (27925), No. 557) has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that the so-called "Islamic State" is incompatible with Islam and is a very inappropriate and misplaced name for the counterproductive terrorist guerrilla in the Middle East; noting that countries such as the United Kingdom, France and Turkey are now calling this terrorist organisation Daesh, an Arab abbreviation for Al Dawla al-Islamyia fil Iraq wa'al Sham; Considering that this will have a positive impact on the image of Muslims who have nothing to do with this terrorist organisation and want to be involved; calls on the Government, the current terminology such as "Islamic State', "IS', "IS' or "ISIL', to now refer to Daesh in public communications, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 558, was no. 557 (27925).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u86	In that sense, therefore, the motion is superfluous. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u87	Mr. Chairman. The Van Bommel motion in part No. 547 is about reports of civilian casualties. I explained in detail in the debate earlier this week what the targeting processes look like and what processes are going through after a bombardment. I have invited the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to visit the mission area so that they are fully included. I therefore consider this motion to be superfluous, not even desirable. I dissuade the motion for that reason. I repeat briefly that all messages are being examined. I have indicated that, where appropriate, there will be a compensation scheme. In the case of civilian victims by Dutch action, the Chamber will be informed of this, of course after investigation. What we haven't done so far and what I wouldn't want to do is to deal with the level of threat and any risks that you're calling yourself by doing with it, is to publicly make statements about the number of warriors killed in bombings. We have no body counts and no boots on the ground. We can't literally check that out and can't split it out by partner within the coalition. In other words, I do not consider that part of the motion feasible. That's what I'd like to dissuade her. The answer to the questions as to whether all reports are being examined, whether there is a compensation scheme and whether the Chamber is included if it is established that civilian casualties have occurred after a bombing by Dutch F-16s, is "yes'. The motion-Servaes/Eijsink in part No. 550 is about informing more explicitly about the consequences of a mission for the armed forces. We discussed this briefly during the debate earlier this week. This motion will deal with this matter in greater detail and will be further developed. I think that this motion should be seen as a further exception to my efforts to operate as transparently as possible and therefore to be clear about the impact of the mission on management and the generic practice and to make it much clearer to the Chamber as well. I understand that wish and I actually have it myself. Internally there can be anything and everything that is known, but it is also good if it is known to the outside world what the impact of a mission is on the organisation and what it does with the management and the generic practice. I would like to give the advice 'judge chamber', but I would like to ask whether I can read 'the specialist functions', which I think is a bit of a complicated term for the armed forces as 'the individually deployed military and the individually assembled units'. Then I'd better move the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u88	I see that the applicants have agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u89	In that case, I shall leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. The motion Knops c.s. in piece No. 553 is about a joint effort by the coalition to achieve better coordination and more efficient delivery of weapons and other supplies for the peshmerga in Iraq. I have already indicated in the debate that this applies not only to the peshmerga but also to the Iraqi security forces. I also promised at the time that the distribution of equipment and the issuing process would be difficult and that the coalition would now have a great deal of attention to do so. This must be done in a coalition context, but also in consultation with the Iraqis. In view of what the Netherlands is currently delivering to material, if I may read the motion in this way, we must have some sense of reality in the context of what the role of the Netherlands in this matter means. So, yeah, we're gonna argue for it. In fact, I said the same thing. We're definitely gonna draw attention to it. But since we are hardly supplying material ourselves, there are also some other countries that are taking the lead in this. I consider the motion to support the policy. We do it and we keep doing it, but I do ask for some sense of reality, because the Netherlands is not going to organise it in its uppie.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u90	It doesn't say that either. I therefore ask the Minister to give an opinion on the operative part as such. I think that is perfectly clear. This is about better coordination and more effective supplies as a joint commitment of the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u91	I was just saying that I see the motion as a policy support, but I wanted to do a little expectation management. The motion only refers to the peshmerga, but the issuing process for the Iraqi security forces is equally problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u92	I have no problem with extending the operative part, but I do have trouble with caveats. That is why I agree with the Minister's last comment on this. Is it allowed to ask the Secretary of Defense another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u93	You have the floor. One last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u94	I have just asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the statements made by the Minister of Defence on radio. The Foreign Minister says that there is unity of government policy and that there is no difference of opinion at all. I have been very closely associated with the words spoken by the Minister of Defence himself, but then I was "dissuaded" as a judgment. Does the Minister take back this afternoon's statements or have we misunderstood them? I have them literally on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u95	What motion is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u96	I gave the interview myself, so it doesn't have to be read literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u97	The Minister of Foreign Affairs also made such a move: you must have the text...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u98	If you'll just give me the number of the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u99	It's not a motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u100	Okay, I'll give the Minister the floor. Then she can express her own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u101	I gave an interview at BNR this afternoon about the world, including Russia, but also the fight against ISIS. I do not know if Mr Knops has had time to listen for the whole ten or twenty minutes, but then he will have received the necessary nuance. The question was why we were not going to bomb, now it has been established, also by the external international legal adviser, that there is a mandate. I have said that there are many considerations. The sec finding that there is now an international mandate does not automatically lead to the bombing by Dutch F-16s. The conversation then continued. I gave even more insight into the considerations that the cabinet stands for, as set out by my foreign minister, during the debate earlier this week. An example of a question you have to ask is: if you have driven ISIS out of Syria, who will come to power? We are also left with someone like Assad, who is responsible for gross human rights violations and many deaths. These are all serious points that this cabinet would like to take its time for. That's what I said this afternoon. At that time, I was asked whether a broad political strategy was a necessary condition. Then I said, no, it's not quite the other way either. There was enough nuance in those ten minutes to properly reflect the unity of government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u102	Let's end up positive. I very much welcome the explanation given by the Minister of Defence and her statements. If I have to choose between the two statements, those of the Foreign Minister and those of the Minister of Defence, I shall nevertheless vote for those of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u103	I guess that's what the circle's gonna be all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u104	The good news is that the Foreign Minister and I are in complete agreement. Mr Grashoff deserves another response...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u106	Mr Ten Broeke is joking, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u107	Yeah, well, you're gonna get over yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u108	Earlier this week, we talked about monitoring human rights violations. I promised Mr Grashoff that I would come back briefly today. I told you, it all sounds fantastic. It landed well with me in itself, but I wanted to pass the feasibility test. We are not yet done with this, but the first inventory is that the prevention of human rights violations is paramount. For this reason alone, the Netherlands invests in training for the awareness of those soldiers. Within the coalition, but also within the Dutch armed forces, it was rightly noted that in fact each soldier monitors his own behaviour and that of his colleagues. All other coalition partners also pay full attention to the respect of humanitarian war law in training. That happens in a very practical way. Not with lectures and lectures, but with scenario sessions where our trainers really talk to the trainees. It goes without saying that, in our contacts with the Iraqi authorities, we are also discussing the respect of humanitarian war law and human rights by the security forces and militias from the cabinet, in particular the foreign minister, myself and the colleague for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. That doesn't just happen because of us. This is, of course, also happening in a coalition context, at EU level, at the UN level and so on. In theory, it's a very nice proposal. The problem with its feasibility is that the Iraqi army and the peshmerga already have a great deal of difficulty in recruiting sufficient soldiers of sufficient quality. We also discussed this briefly earlier this week. We have been told internally this afternoon that it is precisely now that it is a priority to train the recruits who are recruited individually on that awareness rather than the separate appointment of monitors. That is also the feeling in the coalition. That is not the end of the matter. I have said that I will now do a quick scan of what is possible and what the thoughts are on it, but I have also said that I will come back to this in any case in the next progress report. I will. Then I will work on this or not and provide Mr Grashoff with a more detailed explanation. That leaves me, especially as Minister of Defense, to wish our military very much success and, of course, a safe return home. The words of Mr Servaes appealed to me very much. He said: fighting this sinister hyperextremism is absolutely necessary and has great urgency. I wholeheartedly agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-27.u109	This brings to an end the third time-limit in this Article 100 procedure. We are voting on the motions tabled this evening.
