ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u1	By way of derogation from the list of speakers, I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, who has asked to speak first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am extremely pleased and thank my fellow Members for their willingness to agree to this request. Unfortunately, I still cannot divide myself into two, but in this way I can try to speak in two debates that are taking place at the same time. Thank you again for that. This also means that I will have to leave the Chamber for a while, I say for the people who would follow the debate. In anticipation of the Tax Plan, we are today discussing the Tax Collection Act 2015. In that Tax Plan, of course, my group hopes to finally see ambitious plans for simplification, more jobs and greening, but today we are looking ahead to the tax collection law. My group has two points on the collectible law and one related issue. For the summer, the D66 Group, together with the PvdA Group, asked questions about the provision of interest rate mediation by banks to mortgage customers with an ongoing interest rate contract. That interest-rate mediation is meant to prevent you from having to pay a big fine at once that people don't have. The amount of the fine can thus be included in the interest you pay in the rest of the term. This will enable more consumers, depending on their own situation, to benefit from the current low interest rates. A number of banks already offered this, but they didn't do it all yet. I was pleased that the cabinet also felt it was desirable for banks to offer these opportunities to their customers, but I am concerned about the fiscal aspect, which the cabinet also writes about in the answers. A certain premium should be split from the interest rate. A part may no longer be deducted from the tax as part of the mortgage interest deduction. This seems to make the regulation impossible, because this raises another thousand and one questions. So my fear is that banks are not going to offer this, or even that banks that are already offering this are going to stop doing so because tax bears are all being created on the road. Does the Secretary of State share the concern of my group? Is he prepared to talk to the sector in order to achieve a workable implementation so that people can really benefit from this interest rate mediation and taxation is not in the way there? I'd like a response. During the written examination of the collective law, many questions were asked about the adjustment of the regime for the refund of the bpm in the export of cars. There is fraud with the bpm and there is a desire to counter that. My group supports this aim. As far as motor vehicle exports are concerned, there is currently a poor situation in which there is a right to return the PM in the case of exports to an EU Member State, but not in the case of exports outside the European Union or the European Economic Area. This gives an incentive to export your car first to an EU Member State and then to continue exporting to a country outside the European Union as soon as possible. The Tax Collection Act contains a measure by the Secretary of State to stop it. From now on, a car must be "sustainably registered in the other EU Member State." The Council of State had several objections to that proposal, both in terms of effectiveness and in terms of the design chosen by the cabinet. Despite the comprehensive written answer, for which I thank you, my group still has those questions. Is this arrangement still workable? If it only takes a couple of tens to register the car in a Member State so-called sustainable, compared to the current temporary registration in such a Member State, then why not? Then you can still send that car to a country outside the European Union. Those tens are not going to change that, especially since the Secretary of State says that there is no minimum period in which that car must be in that European Member State before you can export it to a country outside the European Union. How does the Secretary of State view the effectiveness of this measure? The goal is nice, but when I hear it like this, I really don't have any confidence that this will solve the problem. How does the Secretary of State see that? Finally, I come to the reduced rate on natural gas for greenhouse horticulture companies. The European Commission is now imposing the condition that a company in difficulty is not entitled to that reduced rate. I can follow that idea in itself, because the Commission is naturally concerned that this reduced rate is being used as a disguised form of state aid. You also do not want to support companies that are not viable. Here, too, I have questions about the impact in practice. How do we assess whether it is a company in difficulty? In practice, a company is not viable or bankrupt at once; there is a very grey area in between. For example, with banks, there comes a time when you can see that. Then there's a bank run and it's actually end of practice. That's a clear moment. However, in horticulture, where there is no supervisor, I do not see that at all. At what point do you say that a greenhouse horticulture company is actually no longer viable at all? How's the Secretary of State gonna judge that? When is a company going to miss that reduced rate? Are we not going to have the opposite effect? Is the moment the government pulls the plug on your reduced rate when it's determined whether you're going bankrupt, because that's the death sting for your company right away? This seems extremely complicated to me. I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State, who apparently knows a lot about greenhouse horticulture, is going to assess this on a case-by-case basis. How am I supposed to see this? Another question about a sector where the market perspective does not yet exist is what percentage of the total costs of greenhouse horticulture companies are energy costs. The greater the cost, the greater the reduced rate of course, and the greater the risk that you, just by telling a company later that it is no longer entitled to that reduced rate, have at once driven it over the blade. I do not think that taxation should be the trigger for the bankruptcy of greenhouse horticulture companies. It seems to me difficult to implement and very difficult to explain. What's the Secretary of State's answer? Are there any other plans to offer an alternative to this? Although I understand what the aim is, I still have very serious doubts about the workability of this measure in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mr. Chairman. Many colleagues had hoped that the Tax Collection Act 2015 would be a hammer piece. Nevertheless, we are here with each other to start the debate in the context of the supervisory function of our Parliament. I think that is a good thing. I'll go through the points briefly and businessly. In the first instance, I would like to comment on the interest rebate for staff loans. Two matters are dealt with for that. The zero valuation will be abolished, so we will simply have to pay for the value in the course of the economy of this wage in kind. Moreover, such an interest rebate will no longer be able to be designated as a final component. I think this is a good point. Why should we not continue this line to other gifts from the boss to the employee: no longer pay in the final charge, but simply pay in real terms? It is quite clear why we are abolishing bank savings for funeral expenses. It is not used and not applied. That's why we have to clean up the law, so that's fine. Then I have a question about Luxembourg and the withholding tax. I myself lived and worked in Luxembourg. When there was a banking secret, Luxembourg was the sixth deposit country in the world. There were trillions parked there. Now Luxembourg is a small country with a population of just over 300 000, I believe. Now that there is no more banking secrecy and therefore no more withholding tax, the Luxembourg tax authorities will have to notify, for example, those in the Netherlands about the assets of Dutch taxpayers in Luxembourg. My question is: can we actually do that? Is Luxembourg, that small country, able to transmit all that colossal data to the foreign fisci, including the Dutch? What's the experience with that? Then there's the holding loss scheme. It's fine that we fix it. I can wholeheartedly support that. Trade in loss bodies is a thing of the past. As a fiscalist, I was once allowed to stir in that pot myself, but then I wondered: why are we doing this? This is not good for fiscal morality, so let's sew the holes that are still there. I have one more question. The budgetary loss in 2015 is 30 million euros. My question to the Secretary of State is: why don't we start this repair on 1-1-2015? The dividend tax. Public legal persons and private public bodies are regulated to become liable to all VPBs, but there may still be objectively exempted activities in such bodies. A refund procedure in the dividend tax should then be opened for this because otherwise there would be a liquidity disadvantage. I understand that, only the dividend tax law also allows in specific cases to regulate in advance in the movement between beneficiaries and withholding agents that there is no withholding of dividend tax. Why should we not look for legal means to release this simplification, which is not to apply this deduction, also to public bodies which ultimately have exempted activities and therefore are not liable to tax dividends? After all, the dividend tax is nothing but a withholding tax on corporation tax. If you're exempt from one thing, then eventually you're exempt from the other. In the context of administrative burden relief, my question is to the Secretary of State: why should we set aside a complex refund procedure if we can easily regulate in the law that there should be no deduction for the proceeds related to those objectively exempted activities? For the purposes of the refund system for motor vehicle exports, I agree with the comments made by the previous speaker. I also keep asking questions about the control of what happens to those vehicles. I can only make the statement that, as we know here, I am, in principle, opposed to the instrumental function of taxation on the basis of the changes in the zero rate of vehicle tax. That means I don't like zero rates and so on to steer people's behavior and drivers. So I insist that we should abolish that zero rate. The tax on tap water had previously been put on a list of small charges which we could remove in the context of simplification. I am still in favour of that. Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of the estimated revenue from this tax, and is there any hope that we will be able to abolish this tax in the future? On the energy tax for gardeners, I asked a lot of questions in the written round that preceded this. There have been clear answers to that. Nevertheless, my heart lies with the gardeners who are already having a hard time and then find an extra attracted noose around the neck, because they are also closed off from tax facilities that apparently well-run companies can enjoy. That's where the shoe keeps wringing. Finally, the innovation box; then I can finish. The abuse of the innovation box is mitigated by the fact that taxpayers are no longer able to benefit from unintended benefits in shifting assets across borders. Is this limitation, let me put it this way: is the innovation box driven by EU risks? That's what I'm talking about. I have read that the European Commission and, in particular, other major EU Member States, such as Germany and France, have sometimes expressed a negative view of the state aid nature that would be attached to that innovation box. Is the further limitation of the innovation box linked to these noises in the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u4	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the tax bill today. It is good that there is such a bill and that it is dealt with separately from the whole thing surrounding the tax plan. We in the Chamber have asked for this for many years. My first point concerns the loans to staff; my colleagues have already spoken about them. I read the explanatory statement and the answers, and then I thought: how will this work in practice? In substance, I agree, but when I look at how this scheme is supposed to work, I'm glad I'm not a tax officer anymore. In fact, I would be slightly tired of it, as would all the interested parties. I'll be on the bpm. I agree that this is going to happen, but like Mr Van Weyenberg, I would like to know what the relationship is between EU countries and countries outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u5	I am a liberal myself, but occasionally I have to let myself be finely sharpened in my liberal principles. What does the VVD think of the fact that an employee benefits from his employment and that this advantage is not taxed equally against the wage of another person who does not benefit from such an advantage? Shouldn't we fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u6	In the past it has been repaired for a bit. If Mr Van Vliet wants to fix it, I assume he will submit an initiative law to this effect. In tax countries, Mr Van Vliet always knows that you do not lose something that is there so quickly. If you started at zero now, it would be something else. I was talking about the BPM and the non-EU countries. I come to the energy tax and the horticulture companies. Nearly all parties have asked written questions about this. I have read the answer, and like colleagues, I am left with it. You get an exemption, but if your company's going really bad, you're gonna have to start paying. I can explain a lot, including to my colleagues, but I find this very difficult. I'd like some clarification from the Secretary of State. Finally, Luxembourg. Thank you for the information, but I am very curious to see how this will develop in practice. Will we really be able to exchange information over and over again? In future, I would like information on this. Perhaps this can be done in the six-monthly reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that this year's Tax Collection Act also contains substantive measures. For years now the colleague of the VVD has already referred to this as a Chamber and the Secretary of State has taken a significant step in the right direction this year. In the Tax Plan we will see if there could have been more, but this is a lot bigger than in other years. From the colourful collection of fiscal measures I choose the interest rate discount on staff loans, the savings discount, the bpm, the death dividend, the greenhouse horticulture and the revision interest rate for usury policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u8	Is that all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u9	No, because as far as interest rates are concerned, I can simply agree with D66 and with Mr Van Vliet on the tap water. That is the tax that has changed the most in the last four years. I believe that it is adjusted about twice a year. I hope that this is the end of it, because people are taking a lot of effort to change their performance. I'll start with the employee interest rate discount. At present, banks and other employers can give an interest rate reduction to their staff free of charge. It is right to put an end to this. That was also a wish of the Chamber. The PVV Group came first. But does the law go far enough? It remains possible to give a discount on interest rates. So you haven't paid that money, but the unpaid money is going to be taxed by the employer. The employer must also pay social and health insurance contributions on it. The amount of money charged to the employer that has not been paid may then be deducted from your tax return as a fictitious deduction. Mrs Neppérus rightly said that this is fairly difficult to explain, and I too do not think that I have succeeded very well. My proposal is: why don't we just stop doing this? We have said very clearly to all shops that they can give up to 20% discount on their clothing up to a maximum of €500 per year and that it will then fall into the WKR. If you get above the exemption, you pay 80% final charge. My group has prepared an amendment and I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on the following proposal. Firstly, the interest rebate that has not been paid should simply not be deductible from the mortgage interest rate deduction. After all, something you haven't paid yourself, you can't deduct from the tax. Secondly, the first €500 will fit into the targeted exemption as with the targeted exemption for people working at a clothing store or a supermarket. After all, the staff gets a discount and all the more is just pay. This can be done in the free space of the WKR, but it is of course quite quickly full, because those people live in slightly larger homes. It will then be included in that 80% final levy. We have made the WKR so strict that you already have to pay taxes when you park the car near the neighbor. Then there's no reason to make exceptions to the mortgage interest rate deduction, is there? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State, because with this we bankers would simply treat the same as the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u10	Mr Omtzigt, the matter is extremely complex and technical. I ask you, as far as possible, to avoid abbreviations. The WKR is the cost of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u11	The WKR is indeed the cost of working. Thank you very much for the addition, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u12	I have an informative question. When can we see the amendment? Will that be with the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u13	No, it's part of this bill. It may be submitted this afternoon or this evening, because we have been working on it this weekend. The Secretary of State knows it. He can react to it, too. I can file it and distribute it. It makes sense to me that you can't subtract what you don't physically receive. We have removed all fictitious deduction costs, including all multipliers in the deduction for healthcare costs, and that sometimes hurt left and right, so... Now I'm gonna get back to saving the funeral. This law also provides for the exemption for funeral savings to be abolished. That makes sense in itself, because there are no providers of a savings product for their own funeral. But it's very undesirable. Many people would like to save for the cost of their funeral, because they do not think it is desirable to saddle their heirs with this. Then you'll run into the boundaries of box 3. Besides, you lose all your rent allowance if you save a little too much. Not for everyone, funeral insurance is an alternative. There are plenty of nasty stories about costs that are not fully reimbursed. Has the Secretary of State consulted with the NVB on how the exemption could be changed so that banks will offer this product? Is it really too difficult to carry out an account blocked until death up to the amount exempted? Now I'm going into the bpm. Bpm is the car tax, chairman. It's always very important to the VVD. In the bpm, the Secretary of State tries to raise a threshold against the widespread abuse of the restitution scheme. To this end, of course, I can only agree, but the effectiveness of the measure may be limited. The car industry indicates that the second-hand trade is severely hampered by this measure. Is it true that the Secretary of State had discussions with the industry about alternatives? If so, what has come out of it? We have just heard: you can park it in the neighbouring country for a while and then pretend to have an interest there. That costs parking costs, but you can bypass the measure in that way. But then we will all make another monstrosity in that legislation. I come to the codification of the approval of the death dividend. I am actually asking the same question as in the report, because the Secretary of State forgot or avoided it. Here's what's important. Suppose a man dies and leaves a company behind. The woman is entitled to half of the enterprise, but she is not an heir. The heirs decide to pay death dividend, but the wife cannot use Section 4.12a of the Income Tax Act. If the woman were heir, if only 1%, she could postpone the significant interest charge under Article 4.12a IB, including for the 50% share she holds on the basis of matrimonial property law; half of the community of goods. If this is fair, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u14	I have a brief question about Mr Omtzigt's previous point, that interest rate advantage for mortgages, in order to avoid any confusion in the Chamber. This could also help us to assess the amendment that Mr Omtzigt is going to table. I just heard him say you have a fictitious deduction. You have an interest discount on your boss' mortgage, for example because you work at a bank. Then you subtract that whole amount. My question is this. If someone normally pays €100 on that mortgage, but because of that discount only €80, because he works at a bank, he only deducts €80 in his claim IB? Is Mr. Ommzigt now suggesting that he's subtracting $100? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u15	Yeah, because it's being added and deducted again. If I understand correctly, you can also partially subtract the discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u16	I would very much like to wait for the answer from the Secretary of State, because I think the shoe is wringing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u17	It could be. I'm very curious, too. That is also one of the reasons why we are having this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u18	If it is really a very short factual question, the answer can be given when interrupting from box K, but I have to press the right button.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u19	Let's do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u20	We'll do that later. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u21	Then I'll come to the greenhouse horticulture. The European Commission will no longer charge a reduced rate of energy tax to glass gardening companies if they are in difficulty, because they would then be subject to State aid. The Secretary of State has thought carefully about the design of this measure. The sector says it can live with it, because it does not want to lose the reduced rate either. I note, however, that there will be a great deal of responsibility on the part of that one Tax Administration official who deals with the viability of companies. It can therefore decide from one day to the next that a company must go bankrupt. The moment he says that a company is no longer entitled to the reduced rate, which is already in some difficulty, that company can immediately apply for bankruptcy. Can the Secretary of State undertake that he will not handle this choice lightly when it comes to energy taxation? I also wonder whether the Dutch Government has opposed the European Commission's view that giving the low rate to companies in difficulty would lead to major distortions of competition within the EU. If both greenhouse horticulture companies with or without problems are covered by a reduced rate, that is nonsense. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? In my opinion, the Commission's demand is a new complexity in the system. The revision interest rate on usury policies is a big problem. One of the things you can have a usury policy for is retirement. You can't buy that off before the retirement date and so we know a criminal charge on top of income tax. This one's 42 or 52%, and that's gonna be 20% on top of it. If you have to pay off, you have to transfer 72% of that amount to the tax authorities. People with a usury policy can't go anywhere. They have insurance that charges far too high a cost, but if they want to buy it off, they will be punished. The Secretary of State does say that he wants the minimum regulation to expire, but he does not want to do anything about the 20% revision rate. In fact, he says that we should take another policy. If someone takes a policy with a normal interest rate of 1% and the Wabeke standard of 2.35%, he already makes a negative guaranteed return per year. That's where you force people to invest. For people who have a policy that can be qualified as a usury policy, according to Wabeke, there should be the possibility to buy it off, without this penalty charge of 20%. The definition of Wabeke can be used as a dividing line. We shall table an amendment to this effect. I am also very interested in the assessment of this amendment by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u22	Mr. Chairman. In order to reduce the pressure on the treatment of the Tax Plan, both Chambers have asked the Cabinet several times to send a substantial part of the tax legislative proposals to the Chamber already in the spring. So before us lies the Tax Collection Act 2015 which was sent to the Chamber in June. For the SP group, however, this is still far too thin. They are, after all, mostly logical changes of a technical nature. The question is therefore why it is not possible to get a larger part of the Tax Plan to go ahead with the Tax Collection Act. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that it is more than previous years, but there can be much more in it. I'm gonna walk by a couple of topics. I'll start with the holding loss scheme. Since the so-called Bosal judgment in 2003, it has remained restless around the tax on profits. The hole that threatened to emerge has been repaired, but it has been done with art and flying, by some arrangements that partly close the hole, but not entirely. In order to cover part of a loss in the income tax resulting from the so-called Bosal judgment, the holding loss scheme has been introduced. The Supreme Court has limited its interpretation of this rule, which threatened to create a further gap in the tax on profits. I'm glad the Secretary of State is closing this hole now, but this way we'll keep chasing the facts. Looks like there's always holes that we need to close. How come the tax on profits is always so under pressure? Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP Group, namely that we need to see how we can cover the entire loss resulting from the Bosal judgment? A motion for this has once been tabled in the Chamber, the Bashir/Van Vliet motion. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. While the Secretary of State is closing one gap with this bill, the European Court comes up with a ruling that once again breaks the tax on profits. According to the Court, benefits to be granted to Dutch subsidiaries should also be granted to subsidiaries in another EU country. The Dutch tax unit appears to be unsustainable. What is the reaction of the State Secretary to this judgment of the European Court, which states that Dutch practice is contrary to freedom of establishment? How big is the hole that this creates? What's the Secretary of State gonna do to prevent us from going through a loss of the Vpb in the next few years? Is he prepared to look together with the SP Group at how we can ensure that the revenue from the profit tax does not go down any further, but up once? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Luxembourg will cease to levy the withholding tax on interest income and thus the set-off granted by the Netherlands will lapse. This is a good thing. Of course, it is a good thing that Luxembourg gives up its banking secrecy, at least for accounts of those living in the European Union. The question is therefore whether Luxembourg also gives up its banking secrecy for accounts of persons who do not live in the European Union. What does the Secretary of State think about Luxembourg not giving up entirely? Is he prepared to address Luxembourg on that? The Secretary of State writes in his reply to the written questions that he is not aware of the tax revenues generated by the exchange of information. My group is surprised at that. Does the Secretary of State intend to say that he doesn't really know what the exchange of information will bring? Is he prepared to say that he will look into how the data exchange will work out and what the proceeds will be? Furthermore, we read that Dutch people with an account in Luxembourg last year asked more than 2,000 times for the return scheme. So this is about black savers who have come to their senses. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many Dutch have an account in Luxembourg? How much did this return scheme yield for Luxembourg? What steps is he going to take to get the last people across the line or to impose sanctions on them if they do not want to? The facility for inherited significant interest will be expanded. The shares that were not acquired under inheritance law but were already in possession are now also eligible for the facility. We still have a few questions about this. Can the Secretary of State indicate how often this facility is used? What is the budgetary impact of this facility? I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State why this facility was introduced at the time. Is this because there is a tax debt when the money is not actually released? If that is the case, why can't a payment scheme be used? I'd like to get a reaction to this. My final point concerns the reduction in interest rates for staff loans. I agree with all the questions that have already been asked, but I have a number of other questions. Tax experts say that this measure can lead to a negative income effect for former employees, because the interest advantage is taxed first as a wage and then cannot be brought under the final levy. The Secretary of State states that he does not agree with this conclusion, but can he explain where the experts are wrong? Can he give guarantees that this measure will not lead to a negative income effect for people who do not fall into the fourth rate of income tax? The Secretary of State is talking about the negative income effects, but he doesn't indicate which ones they are. Can he tell us more about that? What does he think of the suggestion that the interest advantage should be passed on to the Tax Administration who can then correct it? Wouldn't that be easier to implement? The interest rate advantage may vary during the year. The Secretary of State says that he will work on how he will deal with this in lower regulation. When can we expect this regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u23	Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said. From a number of questions I will find it necessary to repeat them. The tax collection law can also be seen as an annual competition between tax analysts who look up the loopholes of the law and the legislator who then tries to close those loopholes again. This year we are talking in particular about the holding loss scheme in the tax on profits. Let there be no mistake that the Labour Party wholeheartedly supports all efforts to combat tax avoidance. However, we do have some questions about the effectiveness of the proposed measure. A ruling by the Supreme Court caused a leak in the limitation of the deductibility of losses by holding companies. It's good that this leak is now being repaired. However, as Mr Bashir also points out, the next leak is already occurring. This leak arose as a result of a judgment of the European Court of Justice on the application of the block exemption in France. In short, France offers advantages linked to the establishment of a fiscal unit between parent and subsidiary companies. According to the European judge, these benefits should not only be applied in domestic situations, but should also be granted to foreign daughters. If I can believe the Dutch tax literature, this will also attack the Dutch deduction limitation in domestic situations. This applies not only to the holding loss scheme, but also to the prohibition of deductions from currency losses, participations and exit taxes. My question is: how does the Secretary of State assess this possible leak? What budgetary consequences could it have? And most importantly, what does the Secretary of State intend to do about this? At the very least, I would like to ask him if the Chamber can obtain an analysis from the Ministry of Finance on the impact of this ruling by the European judge on the profits from Dutch income taxes. Then the bpm, about which a lot has already been said. We share the questions that have been raised in Chambers about the effectiveness of the proposed measure to prevent bpm leakage. How does the Secretary of State view this? Is this just a temporary stopover and does he also see other measures as an opportunity to prevent bpm leakage? The greenhouse garden companies have also been mentioned. I understand that Europe is imposing on us that greenhouse horticulture companies in difficulty should not use the reduced gas tariff. It seems to me to be a nonsense measure because I cannot find state aid in it if a company in difficulty is punished for it with a high energy bill. I understand that the Secretary of State who wants to carry out Brussels' demand in such a way that only companies that are in fact bankrupt and have to stop are affected. In view of the concerns expressed in this Chamber and the need to further develop the implementing measure, I would ask the Secretary of State if he would like to submit it to the Chamber by means of the so-called suspension procedure before it enters into force. Then there is the exchange of information with Luxembourg. My question is in fact the same as Mr Van Vliet's: will the Dutch Tax Office receive all the information from all Dutch account holders in Luxembourg and, if so, will they all be examined and involved in the declaration? We will look with more than normal interest at the amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt. We are also very interested in the appreciation of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u24	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 5:05 to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to arrange his papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u25	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say something about this debate. The wish is to make this as substantive as possible and to put a lot into it already, so that there is less left for the debate on the Tax Plan. I understand that wish, although it doesn't exactly match the heart rate in the department. However, I note that we may have a legislative proposal of a limited size, but that the level of detail of the questions compensates for this. In this sense, there is no lack of substance. I will try to go through it in the order of the questions asked. I shall begin with Mr Van Weyenberg's question on interest-rate mediation. Mr Van Weyenberg is not here, but I will answer his question, because that has indeed become a complicated issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u26	Mr Van Weyenberg is listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u27	I hope so. Loan interest, penalty interest and risk premium are paid to the bank. One is deductible and the other is not. We are in agreement with the banks. The intention is, of course, that this is feasible, but it is also all linked to the annuity repayment schedules; it is part of a wider system. My proposal to Mr Van Weyenberg is that I come back to this in the discussion of the Tax Plan and then try to convince the Chamber that a viable form has been found for this. Then I come to the refund scheme for the bpm. Mr Van Weyenberg and others, such as Mr Groot, Mrs Neppérus, Mr Omtzigt, have asked questions about this. Those questions are justified and they are also somewhat provoked by the fact that I made it clear that this is not the walhalla. We must distinguish between cars exported to countries outside the EU and cars exported to countries within the EU. Then it turns out that no less than 70,000 cars from the Netherlands are exported to other EU countries, all by chance to Germany, a country where there is no car shortage. This then gives the impression that these are actually cars intended for further export. We don't know that, but that's the impression it gives. In any case, more than 230 million bpm will be returned. This measure is of limited help; I cannot say anything else about it. We have worked for years to avoid bpm arbitrage, avoidance and all kinds of other constructions. I once told several spokesmen that there are a lot of ways in which the industry of the bpm lives. There are a lot of trick boxes for that and there has been an entire industry around it. I can't do anything but apply everything that's in my power. However, this has only a limited effect. The only thing I can think of that would definitely prevent this bpm industry is phasing out the bpm. With the Car Letter I tried to make a start with that. I really think it is necessary, because the bpm practice is no longer properly enforceable for the Tax Administration. I am making a final attempt here to make things a little more difficult, but the only solution is to finally let go of the bpm. In the Autoletter I tried to make a start with this: with the first 12% the head is off. I hope for support, because of course this is not a tax that we are proud of. I believe that I have dealt with all the questions on the bpm and that there are no other aspects identified by the spokesmen. I see Mr Omtzigt hesitant. Maybe he has supplementary questions. But I don't remember them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u28	I had asked whether there was or will be further consultation with the sector in order to see whether this could lead to a slightly more practicable arrangement, because I understand some of the sector's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u29	That's right. We seem to have arrived in the area of feasibility. I got that message from the industry. Of course, the industry is not happy with this, but we must also do something about it. The gardeners are also mentioned many times. The need for the law on gardeners follows directly from European guidelines. The European framework for this state aid requires that you do not support companies in difficulty. That leads to the curious situation, Mr Groot has said quite aptly that once it is in trouble a company must pay more for its energy than a healthy company. That is very strange, but it is of course a matter of companies which, within a period of six weeks, I shall mention what is really bankrupt. Of course, you don't want to grant a grant to a company that is overwhelmingly unlikely to exist anymore. That would really be state aid. State aid is only really a problem for this sector, because we can only apply the reduced energy tax if it is not in breach of state aid rules. The reduced energy tax is an important scheme. In the first disc it is an energy tax of €0,19, but these companies pay €0,03. If you walk through the disks and you arrive at the third disc, it turns out that it saves €66,000 a year for a horticultural company. That's a lot of money. We shouldn't risk that. If we go along the edge of this and come into conflict with the state aid rules, then we have a major problem. Many call it a matter of concern, but Mr Groot is asking a specific question. He asks whether the AMvB in which it is recorded can be hung. The AMvB is an elaboration of the Commission's guidelines. In this respect, the AMvB should not contain so much news. A veil seems too heavy to me. If we do this by tradition, it's gonna be a fat boy. I understand Mr Groot's concerns. Can we introduce ourselves to each other here? Then I think of an informal veil or something. I understand the wishes of the Chamber to see what it means. Let's do it that way. Then I find a way, for example, it can be included in the written documents surrounding the tax plan in order for it to go to the Chamber in a "non-adverse way'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u30	That then takes the form of a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u31	That then takes the form of a passage in a letter which is still sent to the Chamber. As part of the tax plan, we always send each other a lot of mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u32	If that's how you manage to deal with the committee, it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u33	That veil is beautiful, of course, but I still think it is a strange figure that a higher rate is applied to a sector when things are bad. We have a corporate tax exit rate that is intended to help SMEs move forward a bit, in the sense that the first time you pay a lower rate on a limited part of your tax profits. If such a company is in a bad way, does the European Commission say that there is illegal state aid? Where's the border here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u34	The Commission's limits are determined not by me but by the Commission. I propose that we take joint knowledge of the AMvB in the manner we have just discussed. I also refer to the evaluation of this scheme in 2016. The Minister for Economic Affairs will evaluate this arrangement. There will certainly be some more to be said about this arrangement. I suggest we do it this way. That's orderly, and then we'll have it all at once. Mr. Chairman. I shall continue with Mr Van Vliet's questions. He refers to the interest rebate for staff members. He asks why we don't introduce it more broadly, as it's a convenient construction. However, there is an even more convenient construction: the WKR. It's meant for gifts like this. The smaller gifts are in the WKR. The larger gifts are subject to the criterion of usability. This is much easier to implement. Especially now that we've embraced the WKR again...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u35	Mr Van Weyenberg, would you like to discuss or take a seat in your seat or in the hallway? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u36	Many questions have been asked about Luxembourg. In Luxembourg, it is always the question of how much money it will get. We've longed for years for the end of banking secrecy. That desire was carried out in a broad parliamentary way. When a secret gets cleared up, we always want to know what it was. As we wanted to know who killed Kennedy or what happened at the time, we also want to know what the end of banking secrecy will bring. But then I'm gonna have to disappoint the Chamber. Once a year, tax administrations provide each other with this data, but the data tranche has not yet been delivered, so we do not know what we do not know yet. We are going to know, but I cannot yet answer the questions. But there is certainly going to come out; we are going to get that clarity. That is, after all, the abolition of banking secrecy. Then we shall also know whether those who did not apply for the return scheme, but could have done so, are still running into the light of day. We are going to get answers to all these questions. Now we do not have that answer. The logical question you have to ask, of course, is: when will that happen? I don't know the answer to that, but it's still being sorted out. Maybe someone can tell me in sign language from the gallery when we do know the answer. The number of fingers raised corresponds to the month, so you can watch. Mr Van Vliet also asked about the holding loss scheme. He noted that there was a budgetary loss of 30 million. Can't this go in a year earlier? That would really be retroactive. We have problems with this not only parliamentaryly but also legally very often. I'm afraid that's just not gonna happen. I don't think the First Chamber would swallow that either. The Council of State would fall over us. We shouldn't go on that adventure. After that, it's fixed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u37	I assume the Secretary of State has had the block of Luxembourg. Mr Van Vliet and I have both asked whether the Dutch Tax Administration is now getting all the information from all Dutch account holders in Luxembourg. Are we getting all this data and are they all involved in the treatment of the tax return?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u38	Yeah, that's the idea. I don't know other than that. That is the lifting of banking secrecy. I don't know about reserves in there. That is what we have to count on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u39	I had asked more questions about Luxembourg in relation to banking secrecy and return arrangements. Can the Secretary of State undertake to return to this at a later stage by letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u40	Yeah, you can. I think that for the results of the return scheme I can refer to the letters that have been sent. Of course, that must be quick to look up. The results of the return scheme are there, because it is over. We know how many people were involved, how much money was involved and how much extra tax revenue was involved. I do not have the figures ready, but I will get to Mr Bashir's contribution later and I will see what I have missed. I try to put it together a little bit here and there, but I don't think I can do that at all. Mr Van Vliet also asked why we do not do it differently with public bodies. A refund scheme has been chosen. The way he's suggesting would be the way, but it couldn't be processed in the tax authorities' data anymore. I think that if we meet in five years' time, it will be as arranged as Mr Van Vliet suggests. In this case, I couldn't. One day it will be possible. I have taken note of the desire of many in this Chamber not to turn the button on the load on tap water all the time. That doesn't make it any better. I'm secretly very much in agreement with that. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Van Vliet that the limitation of the innovation box is not motivated by European risks. In the literature, a theoretical abuse possibility emerged that had never been exploited, but which we wanted never to be exploited. In the meantime, this literature has become obsolete, at least if it pleases you to finally adopt this bill. Mrs Neppérus understandably is concerned about the feasibility of the interest rebate on the staff loan. I just said something about that. You can see she knows the practice well. It is concerned about the effectiveness of the BPM scheme. I can only say that I share her concerns, but the only other thing I have on offer is the phase-out of the bpm. I therefore ask for her support, but that is not the time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u41	I'm just gonna come back on those staff loans. The Secretary of State hopes to convince us on this point in the Tax Plan, but we need to vote on this bill sooner. I'd like a little more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u42	Mrs Neppérus is absolutely right. I'll spend more time on it. With a staff loan, your employer, who is also a bank, calculates an interest rate below the market rate. You can see that as something you didn't pay, as Mr Omtzigt did, but I see it as a kind of wage in interest rate advantage. The word "natura" is not appropriate, but it is part of the reward. This must of course be taxed, because wages are taxed in the payroll tax. What are you doing with that paycheck? You pay mortgage interest on it. You get a 2% discount. That's pay. What are you doing with it? You pay that 2% with it. And that's tax-deductible again. In the past, there was no problem not counting it and not subtracting it, because it was the same amount, but that changes. It changes not because of a natural disaster, but because of ourselves. It changes due to the own housing tax measure, which is part of the Housing Market Act 2014, in which the deduction and aggregation rates are slowly falling apart, at least for the fourth disc. We count to 52% and we are now at 51% in the deduction. For part of the interest, the deduction is therefore not in accordance with the old method. That has to be repaired. As far as I am concerned, Mr Omtzigt's reasoning cannot be followed. He says, "You never paid for it, but you can jerk it off." No, it should be counted as a wage. It's pay in kind; we have to be hard at that. At the same time, it has the character of a deduction and we must therefore allow deduction, but at the rate at which every Dutchman can deduct his mortgage interest. In doing so, we shift someone who works at a bank in the same way as other employees. Of course, the desire to treat bank employees as ordinary Dutch people has been playing for a long time. Banks must also contribute to this. I am moving forward to Mr Omtzigt's amendment, which I do not see any ground in. It is precisely this amendment that regulates that we are going to treat people differently, and that is not necessary. It means, in fact, that we are going to introduce a kind of banking tax, albeit indirectly, because it actually goes to the banks, which is going to be 50 million to 100 million soon anyway, which is related to a post which was otherwise simply deductible. I really must reject that as illogical. This may not surprise my assessment of the amendment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u43	But we are not ahead of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u44	So the Secretary of State says this. If a bank provides an employee with a loan of €200,000 at 4.5% interest rate, then €9,000 interest per year must be paid. The bank, however, gives a discount. The employee gets a third discount, as is usual. So he doesn't pay €9,000 but €6,000; that's what he physically transfers. The proposal rewards that €3,000. Although the employee transfers only €6,000 physically, he has a deduction of €9,000 minus the WPA value on his tax form. That's how I read the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u45	Well, how it goes, that's another complicated guy. Someone gets pay in kind of €3,000. This must be taken into account in the payroll tax. Then someone has a deduction of a total of €9,000, so €3,000 higher than the €6,000 he actually paid. That's how it's gonna go straight. The €3,000 summit, introduced by Mr Omtzigt, is added at 52% and deducted at 51% and at 50% in two years and so on. Oh, sorry...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u46	The question is how the Service will handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u47	Yeah, my phone rang and I still don't know how to get it out fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u48	It is good that the Secretary of State confirms that only €6,000 will be paid and that the person concerned will be paid in kind. I think this is a strange form of pay in kind, because it is a discount that simply produces money. With wages in kind I think more of a gift or a flower and not of something worth an exact amount, namely an interest discount. The Secretary of State confirms that you can deduct €9,000, while you have only paid €6,000. It makes more sense for you to subtract everything you pay. This is also the case with non-bank employees. You'd better get the rest under the work-cost arrangement. That is what I was trying to do with my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u49	This would mean that Mr Omtzigt's amendment would require the bank to pay tax on the amount of €3,000 and that this amount should no longer be deducted. Then we treat the employer of a bank employee and thus also the bank employee differently from other employees in the Netherlands. I don't think that's real. Mr Omtzigt made an advance on how this was to be implemented. All kinds of forms are conceivable for that. You can have the bank charge extra taxes. In the case of pensioners, the problem is even more complex. We are in productive consultation with the banks on this. We believe that all this is feasible. The solution seems to be in sight. I will report on this as soon as that solution is reached. There are all kinds of ways to do this. The point is that the bank as an employer and the employee of a bank are treated in the same way as any other employer and every other employee. I told you, the term "in kind" is a little weird. I agree with Mr Omtzigt, but I do not know any other term for that. For the discussion, this is seen as a wage in kind that should be taxed at the same rates as other forms of pay in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u50	If Mr Omtzigt still has a technical question, it might be useful to put it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u51	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to do so. In an interim sense, the Secretary of State is creating another problem, and that is that of bank employees who are no longer employed and who still receive interest rebates, for example because they have retired or have been dismissed. The latter also happens with large banks in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State says these people will also be covered by this regime. Well, that's a real dragon, actually. In fact, the Secretary of State also says this, because he still has to find a solution for the implementation. How is it possible that we still have to find a solution to this problem, when we are being asked to introduce this into legislation already? Surely we can do much better through the amendment on the cost of work. That is also very much more practical in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u52	Very productive consultations are taking place on the implementation. We're getting closer and closer. This does not concern implementation issues with regard to the employees themselves. At most it is about the employees who no longer work there, such as pensioners. There are all kinds of different solutions, all kinds of different variants. That's what they're talking about. Let it be clear that it is perfectly justified that bank employees pay taxes in the same way as other employees. That is also the wish of the Chamber. Those employees do not need to be treated more coulantly, as is currently the case. Those involved are now subtracting from 52% in the fourth disc, while other Dutch people are allowed to do so at 51%. They don't need to be treated more coulantly. That's what this law is for. They do not need to be treated less generously or more strictly. It is a perfectly logical solution to want to do this exactly as for all other Dutch people and to come up with a version for that. The Housing Market Act 2014 has more often entered the books as a law that needed to consider how to make them executable. We are also working on this now, but this does not seem to me to be insurmountable at this stage. This is the subject of excellent contact with the banks; I believe that this happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u53	That every Dutchman pays the same rate, soit, but in this example of Mr Omtzigt, anyone who does not work at the bank pays €9,000 interest instead of €6,000. If you work at that bank, you have a very big advantage of that €3,000 interest rate discount. You put that advantage in your pocket. It's an advantage from your employment, and that's what we're going to tax on. That's a final charge. That employee doesn't notice at all, but still holds his advantage of €3,000. Then he can subtract another €9,000! Well, then you're enjoying a double advantage because you work at a bank, aren't you? Maybe I'm missing the link here, but I don't think this is a logical system. I therefore agree with Mr Omtzigt's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u54	According to Mr Omtzigt's rhetoric, he didn't pay it, but he got it as part of his wages and then paid it. That is how it is seen in this proposal. You've got a paycheck and an interest rate advantage. Together they form the reward package. This is taxed at the rates at which every Dutchman has to pay. It is then spent on interest payments. The deduction possibilities are exactly the same as for any other Dutchman. That is the only way to treat these staff members not more generously, but not more stringently than we are being treated in this Chamber. I really have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u55	Mr Van Vliet would like to take one more shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u56	As a business fiscalist, I looked mainly at corporation tax and sales tax, but as a citizen I have to deal with income tax. My question remains the same: how can you deduct more than the amount you actually pay? That seems to me to be a completely new model in the Dutch tax system. You just pay $6,000! You're not gonna subtract $9,000, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u57	You pay less interest. That advantage is taxed first. Other people who pay interest to a bank are not taxed for something they do not pay. So these people are taxed for what they do not pay, and may then deduct from them what they do not pay. That makes them exactly fiscally aligned with you and me. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u58	This is a complicated exercise. You have to think about it, but the bottom line is that these bank employees are going to pay 1% tax on the interest advantage they get. They pay 52% tax and are allowed to deduct at 51%. But I think that the Secretary of State is going too far in replying to the question about former employees, because there is a major problem there. This interest advantage must also be taxed first, after which it may be deducted again. The Secretary of State refers to lower implementing rules, but the bill is now on the table and we have to decide now. I would therefore like to know what this is going to look like and when we can get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u59	This also depends on the choices made by the market players themselves. One way to do that is for example the following. Suppose a bank gives a former employee an annual interest rate advantage of €3,000, because this is still in the contract. A simple way to do that is to buy off the advantage and thus pay the amount, tax the amount at once, and then settle with the tax authorities. So you're done with the whole problem. There are all kinds of ways to handle this. It's not up to me to be in the shoes of an employer or the IRS. There are all kinds of ways to settle this, but let us note that we bank employees do not want to give secretly hidden advantage, as we do now, but also no disadvantage. I'd say that's a good conclusion. Let us practice that we treat people with staff loans in the same way as all other Dutch people. How do we do that? There are many roads to Rome and the choices made by the market players themselves make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u60	A new regime is indeed being introduced. Even if an unjustified advantage is removed, we want to know how the implementation will work in practice. I assume the Secretary of State, as head of the IRS, will, too. Soon it will have to be carried out, even for former employees. We just want to know if it's feasible. I think the Secretary of State should take this into account a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u61	We have just made a prescription that we can take things with us in the traffic between the Cabinet and the Chamber around the Tax Plan. There are all kinds of ways to make this feasible. A further explanation of that can be incorporated in the communication with the Chamber around the Tax Plan in the same way. I can then give more clarity as to what the discussions with the banks have resulted in on this issue and what types of solutions will there really be more than one debt instrument suitable for this purpose? I'll jump back to Mrs. Neppérus. This was a trip, although a pleasant trip, but a trip. Mrs Neppérus has asked questions about the energy tax for gardeners. I hope I have clarified that sufficiently. The same applies to the exchange of information with Luxembourg. We're counting on us just getting that data. Someone asked if the Luxembourg tax authorities could handle it. I think it should be able to give us a diskette with the data on a second richest country in the world. Let's assume that. It's also been promised, so it should be possible. I shall continue with Mr Omtzigt's other points. He asked a question about the funeral saving. Indeed, there have been consultations with the banks, which have rejected this as "insufficient interest'. It was not appreciated by them and therefore does not need to be facilitated. I found his question about the bpm quite right. I've indicated that we're doing what we can, but we're not doing it anymore. He asked a question about greenhouse horticulture: one official has a great deal of influence. No, that certainly doesn't happen lightly. I promised an AMvB with a procedure attached to it. Then we get to the point of the usury policies. It's a nice idea in itself. The famous birthday has given us all an acquaintance with a usury policy. I count them in my immediate family. The Minister of Finance, my neighbor as I always call him, has been busy with that. Those banks have been called upon to actively approach and compensate the Wabeke cases. According to the signals I'm getting about that, that's on its own. That is, of course, also the route, because I do not think that we in the majority here are inclined to embrace the fact that problems between private parties, problems with questionable policies of banks, have to be solved by the tax authorities. We have seen many times that problems that were partly caused by banks were solved by the tax authorities. That style figure didn't get popular around here. I also think that we should not pass the usury policies on to the tax authorities, but that we should call on those banks to simply compensate for those cases. The Minister of Finance is also committed to this. Then there is also a practical objection. Mr Omtzigt says that in itself it is an intelligent idea that the dividing line can be formed by the Wabeke criterion, but that does not legally hold. That's not sharp enough. There's too many gray cases in there. It has to be in the law, and it's gonna be a mess. We cannot make that distinction. That is why it is not feasible and not even implementable in the law. I think it is an extremely sympathetic idea. Partly because of the Chamber, there has also been a lot of usury policies that we simply have to establish, but I would like to stick to the recent call to the banks to actively approach and compensate people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u62	Already in 2011, the then Finance Minister reported that the banks and insurers would have approached everyone within a year. They have yet to start approaching all customers with a usury policy on the home and a usury pension policy. So we're five years ahead, and they're still gonna start when they're supposed to be done in a year. They promised alternative products, but there are no alternative products. If you thought of them now, they would give a negative guaranteed return, so that's not very attractive either. And we're not proposing to compensate from the IRS. We propose that the tax fine be abolished. So I'm not proposing to exempt them from income tax. They'll still pay for 42% or 52%. And yes, if you're talking about dubious policies, these people are obliged to continue paying for a policy that they're costing too much for. So my request is to make sure they can do that. The amendment, which was passed only half an hour ago, provides for the possibility for the Secretary of State to indicate very precisely at AMvB which may be covered. Then he can also choose to only include policies of at least six or seven years old, so that you cannot start a new tax arbitration, because that is what the Secretary of State is right to prevent. That's what I'd recommend to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u63	I don't quite know the wedding policy file. The information I have is that it's running. Mr Omtzigt is more gloomy about that. Now he gets a lot of mail from the country in his mailbox, so I don't underestimate the extent to which he's aware of it, but the information I have is that it runs. I am also a little empty-handed in fiscal terms in order to make that distinction. So I have to leave it at my discretion. I think it is a nice initiative, but I do not see it as a good one. If we think that banks are doing this too slowly, then we need to think about it again, because that is not what should happen. We need to slow down banks if there are any; I cannot say much about this without honouring fiscal constructions or benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u64	What is your explicit assessment of the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u65	Dissuade. That applies to both amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u66	I meant to make that up, but I hadn't heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u67	Then there is another point that I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt to ask a written question. The question he asked was not only incomprehensible to me, but also to public finances. That is also meant as a sincere compliment. He talked us out of it. So I'd like to ask him to write some things in writing and then he gets an answer, with the compliments. Mr Bashir has the desire that I have known for a long time to repair the Bosal hole completely. Well, there has indeed been a call to that. In the opinion of the Cabinet, this motion was withdrawn following measures taken in 2012. With that, I don't see any room for further work at the Bosal hole. Many different measures have been taken against this. You can discuss extensively whether or not that adds up to the original gap, but in the opinion of the Cabinet, this has been done what was reasonably possible. That's the end of the motion. A broader question from Mr Bashir I understand why he is concerned about that... is why the Vpb is always under pressure. We exchanged extensive letters about this pressure before the recess. One very flat reason is, of course, that in recent years, since 2008, profits have fallen, that we have taken crisis measures and that, some time ago, we have reduced the rate. This form of tax has given way to energy taxation. We have introduced a huge energy tax, which did not reduce the burden on business but gave it a different name. By the way, in all these years, the board has been encrypted. The base has become larger rather than smaller. What Mr Bashir is undoubtedly referring to is that the fiscal unit also seems to be leafing a little. All kinds of judgments are delivered; last week in the Groupe Steria case by the European Court of Justice. It is not clear at all what we should think of that, because that judgment does not concern a regulation that exists in the Netherlands. The Netherlands does not know about this scheme at all. There is a kind of angry cloud hanging over the profit tax domain and perhaps even the tax unit in particular. That raises questions. First of all, however, we need to study what is really there and then we need to determine what we think of it. It is not clear at all that this would mean a new attack on the Dutch tax on profits. That must be considered carefully. That thought has been explicitly started. For that, it is important that we keep an eye on the feasibility for the Tax Administration. Our location climate is also important and we must pay close attention to what BEPS delivers. The latter is partly in the sphere of profit. So there is enough to think about, but there is no reason to come to any conclusions now. In fact, if that reason were there, it wouldn't be possible. In reply to Mr Bashir, I would therefore like to say: no, it is not clear at all that the fiscal unit would be unsustainable. I'm not ready for that conclusion at all. What we're gonna do is we're gonna study right there. We need to see what's in there first, and back to the drawing board to figure out what this all means. I find it difficult to put a deadline on that. But I fully support the importance which Mr Bashir attaches to this. I think he's right to see clouds hanging above the profit tax. In that sense, I thank him for his contribution, but what we have to do is think hard about what this all means. Mr Bashir told me that I did not answer all the questions about Luxembourg, namely those concerning the return arrangements. I suggest that in one way or another I bring this to the attention of the Chamber, either by referring to letters in which it is all clear or by answering the questions again. That is what Mr Bashir owes me. Mr Bashir also asked questions which in fact relate to the succession scheme. That scheme was, of course, drawn up because the heir would have to empty the newly inherited company otherwise in order to pay his inheritance tax. We can all imagine that this is not ideal for the continuity of that enterprise. In fact, we think that you would put some of the SMEs in difficulty by settling this in that way. The total cost of that arrangement is estimated at about 250 million. Mr Bashir asks whether this could be otherwise. Yes, of course, that has been extensively considered. Mr Kamp and I sent a letter about this before the recess. The whole thing's been evaluated. For the answers, I would also like to refer to that document. Because it has indeed been considered whether it could be equally effective in other ways. Thus, ways have been considered in which we can also keep SMEs alive in cases where they are inherited. I now turn to Mr Bashir's question on the interest rebate for staff. Indeed, it should not affect people who are not in the fourth disk, because the percentage of add-on and deduction differs only in the fourth disk. That should therefore only apply to those people. Mr Groot recalled several things, such as the holding loss scheme. I think I treated it. We also talked about the bpm. I also made a commitment to Mr Groot on energy taxation. We do believe that we are getting the data on Luxembourg. As soon as this is the case, and so we would know what is coming out of it, I think it would be very nice, for example, to include something about it in a six-month report from the Tax Administration, because we find that interesting and Mr Groot too. I think I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u68	The Secretary of State spoke about the holding loss scheme. I asked a question similar to Mr Bashir. The Secretary of State is talking about a cloud hanging over the fiscal landscape. Could he send a letter to the Chamber in which he gives an appreciation, on behalf of the cabinet, of the impact of the ruling of the European Court of Justice? Can he also write what this can mean and what we can possibly prevent it from doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u69	I have already said that we must study this. This is not the kind of statement you'll say in two weeks' time: we're out, so we'll just send you a letter. It could well be even more so, that is actually the expectation that we will only get an explanation of this by means of further case-law. There can therefore be a number of procedures before we have a detailed, unambiguous and clear explanation from the Court of Justice as to what we are actually doing. As said: this is a bit circumstantial evidence, but not evidence, in a case that does not apply to the Netherlands. In a country which is not the Netherlands, an unknown situation here has been assessed in this way. Frankly, I do not think we should be too keen on the significance of this, because there may still be a need to build up legal history. The history of law lies here in part in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u70	If you wait for case law, you will then find yourself in the situation that a leak is being shot in the Vpb. Then you're gonna go after the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u71	If we knew by now that there would be a leak in it, we would also know where that leak was and we could fix it. It is precisely the fact that we do not know that that means that there will probably still be some case law. We'll see. We're not convinced this is a leak. It is not clear enough for that. It's too circumstantial. This ruling cannot be directly traced back to an opinion on the Dutch tax legislation or the Dutch tax unit. As soon as there is more clarity about this, there must be a piece on how it goes on. I admit that, but it takes more weight before we can say anything about it. It's not a small part. The tax unit is related to the entire income tax domain, to BEPS and to anti-abuse measures. He's not a little boy. We must get them into his cage before we form all kinds of judgments. My expectation is that this will not be ready for the turn of the year. I do agree that it is important to share things with the Chamber as case law builds up and matters become clearer. Then we can see whether the future of the tax on profits is what it is now, or whether things need to change. We do know that things have to change in the context of BEPS. I agree with the desire for more depth, but I do not think this can be delivered quickly. I would therefore like to put my 'jee' in the direction of Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u72	That's a combination of yes and no, I understand. That's another enrichment, like "not a little boy" before a law. We've learned a lot again. Thank you very much. Secondly, I would like to give the floor to the members of the Chamber, which I would like to use in the same order as Members. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u73	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Some of them I experienced live and another part I was allowed to hear back when I returned from another meeting room in this beautiful house. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to talk to the banks about how we deal with interest-rate mediation and to come back to that when we deal with the Tax Plan. I think it would be good if the Secretary of State could confirm that until then banks can continue to use interest-rate mediation as they did in the past, and that we now have no grey area. They did not distinguish between costs and interest in the past. In the run-up to the Tax Plan, no other rules should apply. Then the banks will also know where they are until then. I hope that they will continue to offer this interest-rate mediation, which we all consider important. On exports at the bpm, the Secretary of State says that this is not a miracle solution, but a step in the right direction and that he continues to look for other measures. I have to say that my expectations of the impact of these measures are not great and perhaps very small. No regrets, you have to do that, but that raises the question of whether we are going to get further proposals in legislation when translating the Autobrief II into legislation in order to do something else about it. How exactly does the Secretary of State see that? I understand that something had to happen for the greenhouse horticulture companies. This shows what kind of complicated situation you end up in with such a particularly reduced rate that you are not allowed to give anymore. We can have a very fundamental debate here, but I understand that the Secretary of State must continue with an assignment and that we have made European agreements. I understand that the Chamber will be involved in its work, with the instruments that we have for that. Let us not create new case law by looking for a new form. I'm assuming the Secretary of State thinks it's a good way to talk it through with the Chamber. I understand that many of my colleagues share my concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u74	Mr. Chairman. On the advantage that employees enjoy from a bank or another mortgage provider, where they are maneuvered into a position where they enjoy double advantage, the Secretary of State and I disagree in principle. In my assessment of the entire legislative proposal, I will have to consider how that works, depending on how Mr Omtzigt's amendment lands in the Chamber. Then I come to the dividend tax on indirect and direct government bodies. The Secretary of State offered an opening that I'd like to use by stimulating him through a motion, to which I'm not setting a deadline. I'm assuming this one will be welcomed by the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas virtually all direct and indirect public companies have become legally subject to corporate tax, which partly leads to administrative burdens;]] [[Whereas the activities of these public bodies may still be objectively exempted;]] [[Whereas the dividend tax is a withholding tax on corporation tax and, on request, a refund of previously withheld dividend tax where it relates to objectively exempted activities;]] [[Whereas, in certain cases, the dividend tax Act also provides for the possibility of withholding dividend tax in advance where the creditor informs the withholding agent in writing that the situation prevents or results in a refund;]] [[calls on the Government, in the context of administrative burden relief, to examine the possibility of withholding dividend tax in the case of exempted activities by public bodies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34220-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u75	Finally, I would like to stress that I thank the Secretary of State for his answers and that it was a constructive consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u76	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers. However, I will continue to wrestle with these staff loans. We should take a look at when we are going to vote on this, because I might want some clarification in writing. Otherwise, we're all gonna do our own math examples. Perhaps something can be sent or something else, because I can see a broad need for additional information from a number of colleagues. Then I come to the issue of usury policy, on which Mr Omtzigt has tabled an amendment. My tendency is to say that this is a matter between companies and individuals. I wonder what it means if you take such a measure, because of course they are broader problems, even with that revision interest. I wonder what the precedent of this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u77	On Mrs Neppérus' first point, I would like to highlight what I would otherwise have said at the end. I propose that you vote on the motions and amendments on Tuesday 22 September. Perhaps it would be wise for the Secretary of State in his second term to consider whether it is possible for him to inform the Chamber in writing before that date. If it isn't, we'll figure it out. I would like to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u78	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers in the first term. My amendment on the interest rebate has been tabled, so everyone can now take note of it. Technically, it provides that the interest rebate is covered by the working cost scheme and is therefore not deductible. That makes perfect sense, because it's a discount the employee didn't pay. We have just seen this in the example where €9,000 should have been paid, eventually only €6,000 is paid and then €9,000 can still be deducted. I don't think that's the answer. In my example, €6,000 can be deducted. In fact, this means that employers will find that it is a cheaper and simpler route to give the employee more pay and simply demand the normal mortgage interest rate of the employees, including in the banking sector. Then the employee at the banks will really be treated the same as all other employees. All other Dutch people can't go to the bank and say: can I get 30% interest discount? Banks' employees can do that. So then we achieve what the Secretary of State says we want to achieve, namely equality for all Dutch people at the banks. This also prevents a very complicated route from being created in the law, which allows you to deduct interest you have not paid and have not paid. I also wish everyone a great deal of strength to explain how this could be a simplification. I've asked several questions about greenhouse horticulture. One of them hasn't been answered. Has the Secretary of State explained to the European Commission that there is no distortion of competition if greenhouse horticulture companies with and greenhouse horticulture companies all have to pay the reduced rate without difficulty? Or does he agree with the European Commission's view that there is state aid if a greenhouse horticulture company continues to be affected by the reduced rate? So my question is: did we object? The question about the death dividend benefit we submitted in writing. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to include them in the reply before 22 September. If there's another way to do it, let him know. As far as the interest rebate is concerned, I forgot one more point. I'd like to know how ex-workers are treated. In the complex solution of the Secretary of State, employers have to pay for ex-workers. Apparently, there is no agreement yet with the banking sector, but we do have to vote on it. I find that undesirable in legal treatment. Perhaps we can hear this before the votes. I would like to hear who has agreed to the proposal on the bpm. Last time, the assessment reports also had some confusion about that. Which sectors or representatives have agreed to the idea that this is an enforceable regime in the bpm? The Secretary of State said they agreed to it, so maybe he can tell us who agreed to it. Then we won't have any questions about it later. Finally, I come to the usury policies. In 2011 it has really been said that in 2012 everyone would be offered a best-of-class treatment. So within a year, everyone would get an offer. It has now been five years and has not even started with the large groups. When people come to these people, they say: you can buy another usury policy or you can buy it, but then you pay 72% tax. There is also 20% revision interest. Secretary of State, pick up this glove. Please be informed at the Ministry. This file has been going on for years. The insurance companies and banks really don't do anything. They're not meeting a deadline or a letter. I can show you ten letters sent here by your finance colleagues and their predecessors. Let's really do something, which is not charging the revision rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u79	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has made a number of commitments and answered a lot of questions. I thank him for that. We are still getting a feedback on Luxembourg, where the return scheme is concerned. We will also receive a letter with information on how staff loans will be drawn up for former employees. The Secretary of State shares our concerns about the tax on profits. The Dutch fiscal unit is under pressure. I would just like to ask for a more proactive attitude from the Secretary of State, because this is a big money issue. If things go wrong, there will be major budgetary effects. Of course, we can always fix things afterwards, but it is better to be on top of them. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to find out in detail what the consequences may be for the Netherlands. What are the risks? What is the potential loss if it also affects our tax laws? Is he prepared to make proposals in advance to fix this at the time that this would affect Dutch corporate tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u80	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitments he has made. This is particularly true of his commitment to the reduced rate for greenhouse horticulture. We look forward to that letter or whatever it is. I also continue to worry about the new leaks in the profit tax. If the Secretary of State wants to wait for case law, I find that a bit waiting. However, he has given the assurance that there is pressure on it. That's gonna have to do for now. Finally, I share Mrs Neppérus' wish to get some more information on staff loans and the impact of Mr Omtzigt's amendment. This amendment seems to be a proposal that creates a little more fiscal neutrality when it comes to bank staff rewards versus other employees. As has already been said, I would like to have a little more explanation, like Mrs Neppérus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u81	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg's assumption that banks can simply continue with the current form of interest-rate mediation, even if it does not comply with the law, is not, in my view, a good thing. I believe that the aim must be to regulate the feasibility before the entry into force. I do not see how we can agree here that we would not implement an already passed law. That seems strange to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u82	The Secretary of State also referred in his reply to the Tax Plan. I would like to avoid some sort of grey area being created between now and the treatment of the Tax Plan, in which banks that have so far offered that interest rate relief think: it is now so unclear, let us stop for a moment. Does the Secretary of State share that concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u83	In the dampening of the mortgage interest rate deduction we made agreements and they are in the law. Those agreements must also be respected. That's possible, too. That is an administrative matter for banks, but I do not think we should suspend the law because otherwise banks will have administrative burdens. We don't want any administrative burdens. We might have been able to take that into account even more generously in the design of the law. I think we all agree on this secretly in this Chamber, but I do not think we should break the law. So I can't promise you that here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u84	Definitely not. That wasn't my question either. In my view, the operational conclusion is that it is important that the Ministry's discussion with the banking sector on how to deal with this should take place as soon as possible. Before we can deal with the Tax Plan here, we're a long way away. So run that conversation fast. Then there is the uncertainty that is now in danger of becoming as short-lived as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u85	That seems to me to be a sensible appeal. Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg shows his investigative mind with the question of whether there is anything else to come up with for the bpm. Others than Mr Van Weyenberg have spent so long in the past eight years in the process we have also demonstrated their investigative spirit and have really been twisting themselves in all sorts of turns to come up with new measures to dampen and eliminate the bpm-carousel. And that simply didn't work out. My proposal, as we discussed last week in the context of the Autobrief, is to phase out the bpm and start with it. The height of the bpm provokes this. As the bpm is lower and there are fixed costs associated with all these practices, it becomes accordingly less interesting to do bpm-artbitrage. The height of the bpm is therefore a very relevant parameter. My proposal is to take a bite out of that and start phasing out. That's the way to do something about it. Mr Van Vliet, together with Mr Omtzigt, speaks of a double advantage. I really have to graze at that choice of words, because that one advantage is just pay. If the bank employee had not received a €3,000 discount on his mortgage, he would have received a €3,000 higher wage. That's just a pocket pocket. It goes in a different form; in the normal case someone in another branch had received a higher wage of €3,000 and no benefit on his mortgage. On balance, this is exactly the same, and it must also be dealt with exactly the same way. So I am opposed to the idea of double advantage unless we are prepared to describe pay as an advantage in these fiscal debates. However, the wage is self-deserved: you get pay to work. I don't call that a tax advantage. The motion in part No. 9 on state-owned enterprises, I think. I'd like to leave this to the Chamber. We're gonna take a look at this. That sounds good to me. I would like to mention that Mr Van Vliet himself said that I do not give any time limit. That's not to train, but because it has to fit into the workflow of this already so busy department. Mrs Neppérus asked Mr Bashir and Mr Groot-Jannifer for more clarity on staff loans. In writing, therefore, would at the same time be a clear answer for Mr Omtzigt. Mr Bashir is even talking about a commitment. It seems as if he can look into the future, because I would like to make that commitment here; it seems to me a reasonable request. I would like to compare the two types of staff and show that there is a budget neutral treatment. I would also like to say something about the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u86	Will you admit the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u87	Yeah, that letter's gonna be there by September 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u88	The commitment I mentioned was about the former employees. I take it this part won't be ready until September 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u89	Yes, I do. I'm gonna go into the feasibility. We are already working very hard on it and we will be on our way by then. I can say the following about the precedent of usury policies. The problem is before a precedent is created. A precedent suggests that you can settle something in a clear way with a clear distinction and that someone else says: my case should also be eligible, so rule such a law for me too. However, for usury policies, it is not even possible to define that properly. The problem is precisely the delineation, so we are not even in favour of precedent. That's why it falls into the tray "unexecutable." Mr Omtzigt once again expressed his opinion on his amendment. I just said something about that. He asked me to support the European Commission's view on the State aid framework. The State aid framework is in place. Support is not relevant in this context. The framework is there and is explained in this way. We must not take dangerous adventures which will make it impossible for the growers to get this arrangement. That saves €66,000 per gardener per year. We shouldn't play with fire. This is how the State aid framework works. We must be careful about that. Only for this group, the group for which the reduced energy tax would no longer help, should we make an exception. Which sectors of the car industry or inter-branch organisations believe that it is feasible? I will read one sentence out of a letter: the problem does not seem to be there and that is the problem. I got this letter from BOVAG and RAI. Mr Omtzig's annoyance about usury policies is authentic and heartwarming, but I have said what needs to be said about it. Perhaps we are not getting closer to each other, but at least the mutual views are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u90	Mr Omtzigt wishes to make a final attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u91	I will continue to try, otherwise I will return to the Tax Plan, because this is a very important subject for us. Perhaps the Secretary of State can light his light on the Ministry about the fact that every, but indeed every, deadline of the usury policy affair is not met by the banks and insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u92	This is a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u93	Could he inform us before 22 September how these people can end their usury policy? There are people with a non-building policy who pay money every month and get nothing in return but can't buy off the policy. Isn't it wise now to make this buy-back easier as soon as possible? Will the Secretary of State inform us about this before the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u94	This really is the Minister's policy. I've known something about usury policy for about 45 minutes. Nor do I feel fully empowered to make commitments on behalf of the Minister on this dossier. I take Mr Omtzigt's wish to be informed about this with the Minister of Finance and I will discuss with him whether and in what way further information can help to answer Mr Omtzigt's question. That is how I want to do it, because I do not feel entirely empowered to make commitments on behalf of the Minister of Finance on a dossier that I am not in. That is the commitment I make, so to discuss this with the Minister and to let Mr Omtzigt know how they will respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u95	We have also put this question in the written round, and the Secretary of State has already replied, so he is aware of it for a little over 45 minutes, but I consider this a serious commitment to see if we can receive further information on the exit route before 22 September and how it could be made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u96	I'll let you know. Mr Bashir, who said that we should proactively pursue the tax on profits and that we should be on top of it. I thought I was going to tell Mr Groot that, although it is not quick and not small and not simple, we should be right on top of this and find out in detail. "Sit on top" and "pick out extensively" are exactly the words Mr Bashir used. As far as proposals are concerned, I have to disappoint him, because it is still too early to do so, precisely because we have to find out more about them. However, as soon as this is discussed, we will have to go further and then we will talk about it. My commitment is to find out and deepen this first. More case law can go beyond that; that is not immediately, but it will certainly come back. As far as I am concerned, I would say to Mr Groot that it is premature to speak of new leaks here. The question is whether this is true. I am therefore through the second-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-25.u97	I don't see anyone jumping up, so that's probably the case. I thank the Secretary of State very much for the answers given. The motion and the amendments will be put to the vote on 22 September, at least if the promised letter arrives in good time.
