ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. The future of our armed forces can only be seen in a good way at European level. It is only together that it is possible for that force to play a serious role. If you do it differently and still opt for an all-in-one of the multifunctional armed forces, you will eventually get that Swiss pocket knife in the smallest form, which I have once offered to one of the predecessors of this minister here. You can't peel an apple with that. EU Member States' defence budgets are being spent ineffectively. Together, with a sloppy USD 270 billion in defence spending, the EU would be the world's second great power, after the US, but with one-and-a-half times as much spending as China and three times as much as Russia, in order to achieve a balance. The priority should therefore be to eliminate this inefficiency and ineffectiveness, which can only be achieved by much more and much more structural cooperation. In that sense, an extra 220 million a year for the Defense Department is not the problem, but it is not the solution either. Twice blink your eyes and you've lost a multitude of extra costs for our failure hunter, due to a changed exchange rate or a canceled order from Canada. When interrupting, I have already asked Mrs Eijsink, and I am doing so now to the Minister: can she confirm that we are not spending any more on our failure fighter than originally estimated and that any increase in costs will lead to the purchase of fewer devices? When dealing with the Foreign Affairs budget, I go into more detail about the phenomenon of autonomous weapons, sometimes called killer robots. However, I would like to say something about it. Former commander Marcel Eurlings says in NRC: these weapons fit in the development of rock throwing in the primeval era to the intercontinental rackets of today. If that is an analysis that needs to legitimise the development and use of autonomous weapons, then I am very shocked. The AIV report speaks about the need for meaningful human control. That is a good starting point, but it is not defined. Does the Minister agree with me that until there is a clear answer to this question, it is better to call for a moratorium than an uncontrolled development? Bombing elsewhere can have major consequences. This means that it is common to report about where and when there are attacks and what their effects are. Bonds like the US and the UK do this more, better and more precisely than the Netherlands. Could the Minister do the same? As long as we don't specialize, we need to be able to do what's important. GroenLinks particularly attaches importance to stabilisation missions, reading the budget wondering whether capacity will be available for this later. Is that right? Is the Minister choosing not to commit to stabilisation missions anymore or are we wrong? If so, is that really a choice or is it something that was created only by chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, Mr Dijkgraaf, whom I am now allowed to replace here, has always started with a strong feter on the cuts in defense. I must say that I was persuasive in the way in which he put it on record. So I do not have to do that in my speech. At this point, we've really been through a turnaround. Even defied PvdA'ers at least I assume that they are still PvdA'ers as former member of the Chamber Harry van den Berg and a little bit more left-wing Jan Pronk have clearly indicated that our armed forces have been eroded unacceptable and that increasing the budget for security and defence is necessary. The situation in the world no longer tolerates a broken rifle, so that it has endured. We are very deeply confronted with the biblical task of the government to counter evil and tackle it at the root. In my view, we may now face the challenge of working constructively and structurally on this steady increase in the defence budget. That brings me to the implementation of the Van der Staaij motion, which has already been discussed several times this morning. How does the Minister guarantee that substantial steps will be taken in the coming years which cannot simply be frustrated by a different political composition of this House? The mentioned trend break that started last year must really get hands and feet and become structural. Moreover, how do we ensure consistency in policy in the long term? Reduce tanks and lease tanks from Germany a few years later. Our Orions sell and then buy back the information they provide from third parties. Maximum cuts and staggering are that the National Reserve is no longer able to practice. That is not really consistent policy, to put it mildly. So we have to get rid of that. With others I would like to make a move to achieve more continuity in this matter. In the area of infrastructure, we set budgets for more than ten years. For the longer term, there must also be certainty about the Defence budgets. You don't build it in one year to rebuild it in one year if you want. There can be no new austerity rounds every year. This does not allow you to pursue a proper long-term policy. The permanent state of reorganisation in which the Defense Department is in, is appalling for the staff. It is a question of having a mechanism that will allow the defence industry to rely on a fully-fledged budget, in line with its ambitions. I agree with the question put by a number of colleagues: how is the Minister going to achieve this? What possibilities does it see in drawing up defence agreements for, for example, a period of five to ten years, similar to that in Sweden and Denmark? The available budget and requirements for our armed forces should be aligned for a longer period of time. For example, our armed forces can act as a powerful and reliable partner in responding to international security crises. In the light of the above, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Knops have tabled an amendment to increase the budget by 200 million. That money is urgently needed to improve the employability, basic readiness and perseverance of our armed forces. I am counting on the support of the Minister and of the Chamber; it must not be just fine words. I still have a few short points, starting with NATO. Not only the Dutch army cracks, but also NATO sounds frightening reports. General De Kruif recently warned that NATO has lost the fight at the higher level. If this is true, this is extremely worrying, especially in view of the rapidly deteriorating situation worldwide, including in Europe. NATO is the cornerstone of our security policy. If that cornerstone is to falter or erode, the future of Western society is in fact at stake. How do we make NATO a robust combat machine again? Not because I am such a fighter, of course I have fulfilled my military service; at that time it still existed, but nowadays you have to explain what it is, but faithful to the old adage that anyone who wants peace must prepare for war. Does the Minister intend to dust off the old deterrent doctrines again and keep them under review to see to what extent they should be updated? The SGP has asked questions about dealing with the reservists and the restrictions they run into. This was also discussed during the recent legislative consultation. Reservists, for example, were suddenly told that the planned deployment and training could not continue. This is bad for the mutual relationship of trust, but it can also affect the training of the reserveists. The SGP therefore welcomes the Minister's commitment to increase the reserve budget from 22.5 million to 42.5 million by 2020. That is a good development. Reservists are, in our view, indispensable for the proper functioning of the armed forces. Let me make a comment about the Royal Marechaussee. From the country we received worrying reports about the military communications equipment. Since that equipment has been reprogrammed, the people of the marshalssee are no longer able to listen with police reports. That seems to us to be a rather unfortunate development, because the Royal Marechaussee, in addition to its regular military efforts, also has a police mission. How could this have happened and how could it be ensured that the Royal Marechaussee gets the reports from the regional police station again? I'll close with a cup about Israel. There is fierce fighting on the borders of Israel. On the north and east borders there is a civil war in Syria, and also in the region of Sinai there is unrest. The restless and hostile region in which the country is located means that technical and military strategic innovations are constantly needed there. That is why I ask the Minister: what can the Dutch defence learn from Israel's adaptive capability at its external borders? I am thinking here of the struggle in Syria, which in a few years' time has changed from a struggle with a conventional army to a struggle with rebel groups, separate groups and a more terrorist structure. Does the Minister see opportunities for the Dutch military to exchange knowledge with Israeli defence about dealing with violence control in critical situations? How can cooperation be further extended, for example in the area of the exchange of observers during military exercises? The SGP hopes that realism and continuity in ambitions and budget will contribute to a more consistent and forward-looking defence policy, so that the armed forces remain able to defend our peace and security, close to and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. A lot of parties want more money to go to war, more bombs, more military vehicles and so on. The question is: are we a country of war or are we a country of peace, diplomacy and reconstruction? In our opinion, we are good at diplomacy and reconstruction. That is where we will have to invest our energy, our time and our resources. Next is the step of the International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice. We propose to add an international centre of diplomacy and reconstruction. I would like a response from the Minister on this. How do we pay for that? By cutting back all those missions in which we cannot achieve results and using those funds for diplomacy before the war, and for reconstruction after the war. Bombs don't solve anything; we saw that in Iraq and Afghanistan. Bombs don't bring peace either. One final point. You used to have to ask your parents for permission if you wanted to get married. Today you must ask Minister Hennis for permission, because if you are going to marry someone from Morocco, Indonesia, Turkey or 40 other countries, you must get permission from the Minister. If you don't, you'll lose your job, and that's what we consider to be a violation of marriage law and of choice of partner. My specific question to the Minister is: what is she going to do to protect the soldiers who want to give their lives to us so that they can choose their own partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. The commander of the army, General De Kruif, warned his minister last month as follows: "Our army has forgotten the real fighting. The Netherlands can no longer wage war at the higher level." Because of a lack of resources, our military has turned into a second-class Boy Scout. It's an embarrassing display. Defense was once established to fight, to be able, if necessary, to defend our territory and our interests by force. We can't do that anymore. Our armed forces have barely any power left because of a chronic shortage of ammunition and spare parts and the sale of all kinds of weapons systems. The list of defects does not end. Let me give you a few examples. Soldiers have to shout pang-pang during shooting practice due to the lack of bullets. With the army our reserve army will be put out of operation, the Patriots will be in the lap basket for the next five years and a handful of tanks from Germany will have to be leased. In the Air Force, our F-16s are plagued by a bomb shortage and the Minister postpones the purchase of drones by seven years. In the Navy, half of our fleet is in need of replacement, but the budget for this is completely lacking. While the world is on fire, the Defense Department is toothless. The defence budget has fallen so far that the armed forces are no longer able to fulfil their constitutional tasks. That is what General De Kruif's remarks have made clear to us. The Netherlands is also abandoning its allies. The cabinet refuses to comply with NATO standards. Even the agreement to spend enough on the Defense Department in ten years' time is not being observed. It's irresponsible and dangerous. The rudder must therefore be completely reversed. It doesn't take millions, it takes billions. We need a delta plan for the armed forces. The International Affairs Advisory Council has already argued in favour of this. Like 43% of the Dutch population, we want the Defence budget to be increased by EUR 5 billion. Only then can all the deficits be eliminated and the necessary investments can be made. There's got to be more of everything. We need more frigates, more submarines, more tanks and more fighter planes. There must also be more transport capacity. And yes, there's even got to be a plane camp ship. There must also be a cultural change within the Ministry of Defence. Defence must be based on force and deterrent. In the case of broadcasting, care must be taken to ensure sufficient firepower and not to work with special gender teams. The feminisation of our armed forces must be stopped. I'm rounding up. There's a blackmail going on with our national security. The cabinet does not give the military sufficient resources to carry out its constitutional tasks. In addition, the cabinet abandons our allies by not complying with NATO standards in the longer term either. For these reasons, we shall be voting against the Defence budget. The armed forces deserve better. The Netherlands deserves better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u5	If I do, Mr Bontes says that he is opposed to the feminisation of the armed forces. Does he want to explain that to you? Can he say why that should stop? Men and women have similar qualities. If we use them in the right way, there's nothing against it, is there? Or am I wrong about that? I ask that in the context of equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u6	My story isn't against women either. It's about policy and culture within the Defense Department. Let me give you a few examples. Special gender teams have been set up to promote this during broadcasts, as in Afghanistan. That's totally unnecessary. Promoting gender and diversity is a spearhead. It's a policy goal of the Defense Department. None of that is necessary. Let's focus on firepower. At Jeroen Pauw, Minister Hennis said very proudly that she had brought about a greater gender awareness of the Defence Summit. Well, good thing is that: the Commander of the Armed Forces I see him sitting there in the hall, and he has more gender awareness, but his ammunition depots are empty. Things like that have to change. There needs to be more policy, but this must be seen in terms of more power rather than the use of military personnel in the context of development aid. We are now talking about disguised development aid. That's what all this is all about. That's what I mean by combating feminization. That's not against women. Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr Bontes really leaves me and many others in the Chamber in wonder. Isn't it a wonderful argument to cast a principle of equality on the basis of finance? That is the argument that Mr Bontes is using for this. That's a crazy argument, isn't it? Or am I wrong about that? Does Mr Bontes not think that women, if they can do the same, should be allowed to do the same in the armed forces? We have equality in this country, don't we? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u8	Yes, but Mr Houwers does not understand the concept of feminisation. He only sees this as "man and woman are equal," but it is also a culture with which you achieve femininity of such a part. That's what my message is all about. It seems that Mr Houwers does not want to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u9	I'm in wonder, too. Does Mr Bontes, who is from the police organisation, think that this organisation is somewhat related to the armed forces, and indeed that men and women within the armed forces have tasks of great importance? Let's start the peeling off there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u10	That's not where my message is. I've worked with the police for 30 years, and I've worked with the security region for a while. That's where I worked with men and women. That's all fine, but that's not the message. You can also see feminisation in the police. There too you can see: go to the conversation, more proactive, more at the front of the problem, not too loud, but de-escalating performance. That's what I call feminization. So it's not about not having women working. That would be nonsense, of course. The same goes for the DOD. It is about policy and how it is used. I see a feminization in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u11	I really need to think about this, because women aren't pussy. Women have enormous firepower; so does Mr Bontes. They are extremely important during missions. We've told you before, you don't have a military force without women. Defence does missions; I know that Mr Bontes may think otherwise, but that is what is happening. This is precisely what we need women for, including social tasks. I have no need to explain what women and men do within the armed forces. They are simply inseparable from their tasks. I do not understand the word 'feminization', but neither do I understand the word 'feminisation'. Is Mr Bontes opposed to the fact that men or women cannot do anything? Then we'll be standing next to each other again. I really don't understand what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u12	I'd like to explain it to you for the third time. It's about policy: how does your policy work and what culture does your organisation have? For example, if you promote gender equality in Afghanistan, and if you set up teams, including military, that contribute to making that point clear to the local population, that is discarded capacity. I see that as feminization of the armed forces. That's bullshit, and it didn't work either. That's my objection. That is why I say: ensure that there is enough firepower and an image that indicates that there is no mockery of the Netherlands. With these bullshit actions, which I refer to as "feminization," we are chasing the facts. This doesn't solve anything either. It's turned out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mrs. Eijsink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u14	It's starting to make sense to me now. Women are just needed for the conversations. That is the case in the Netherlands, and so is the police in the Netherlands. In certain conversations, Mr Bontes only needs to look at his own police theory programmes, sometimes women are needed to speak with women and men to speak with men. There are just specific parts. That's the way it is. That's what the police are trained for, as well as within the Defense Department. So I do not understand what is meant by 'feminisation'. On the missions in Afghanistan, we need that as well as in the Netherlands. That's what a doctor does, and a nurse does. I am trying to peel off what Mr Bontes stands for, because I'm sure he doesn't mean it as fury as he puts it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u15	I'd like to explain for the fourth time. It's not about the contradiction between men and women, but if you're going to use your military as glorified development workers, I'm talking about feminization of the armed forces. If that's how you use your policy and if that's your goal, that's feminization of the military. That has nothing to do with being a man or a woman. It has nothing to do with that. It is the policy of a country or of an organisation. I can see that in the Scandinavian countries, but also in the Netherlands. We can limit this once and for all, when it comes to policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the budget, I would first like to thank this female minister for her efforts to catch up in recent years. It will be a tough job before everything is back on the desired level, but it is being worked hard. A good start has now been made with the provision of additional budget. That is a good starting point for the years to come, but I deliberately say "start point." A start also means that a new basis is being laid for the future, a basis for readiness, a home base from which all military can work, but also a basis on which the House of Representatives and the Cabinet can make appropriate decisions. I will not go into too much specific systems, because others have already done so. I can say that I think that the investment we are going to make should be used mainly for the basic purpose. Because I think there is a lot to improve on that. We've seen that, too. I have a question about this because the letters we have just received continue to make choices which reduce the demand or the number to stay within the budgets. For example, the A letter on C-RAM and Class 1 UAV detection capacity states that "for budgetary reasons, it accepts that operational risks occur." Does the Minister consider it acceptable that we take budget-driven risks? What's a higher priority? In the legislative consultation we talked about all kinds of investments. This has now been clarified, and I thank the Minister for that. Now I get to the real estate. One effect of the major cuts is that we are now looking more critically at the real estate portfolio. The emphasis is on saving and there is a lot of rejection. A positive development, such as increasing occupation rates, is of course good. Co-use may also increase. Another development is that more and more can be transferred to the National Real Estate Company. How do these developments proceed? There is a strategic real estate policy. It is a good thing that this has been developed, and it must also apply in a state-wide manner, but there is, of course, the risk of displacement, of too much on the market. This means that there must be an integrated approach from all departments. I understand the Minister is cooperating in this. It would be good if we had some extra attention to that. There are alternative uses for the real estate. As far as I am concerned, extra attention may be paid to this. Can the Minister provide a matrix in which we can see more clearly which objects we keep now, so which objects are of precise significance, what area they have and what their geographical location is? In this way, we can get a clearer picture of exactly which real estate is in use or is needed for the Defence Company, now and in the future. Then we can also immediately see how we can do other things with the real estate we reject. Alternative useability can really be a consideration in the choices made by the Defense Department. It is not just about finding the best place for your defence tasks, but also about maintaining a place that is a bit similar, because you can use the other place alternative and perhaps create a development there that is socially and financially attractive. I would now like to say a few words about the general budget. Research carried out by the General Court, among others, shows that the framework with which it is currently budgeted does not provide sufficient insight into the risks of investment. The multiannual estimate is not yet sufficiently forward-looking and the requirements of life cycle costing are not yet met. I'd like to give the Minister a challenge. Is it possible for her to think about it and see if she can work on a budget that is more regulated under the income-burden system? I think that's a more modern way of burying. I think it's also appropriate for the government to do it that way. Will the Minister give us some thought and tell us what possibilities there are in this respect? Finally, I have a question for the cabinet. Yesterday we received a letter expressing the appreciation of the cabinet on Syria. We prefer a political solution. There is no doubt about that, of course. A motion has been passed asking the Minister to decide quickly on what to do in the event of possible bombing or threat over Syria. I ask the Minister what she can tell us about this and at what time we can get answers to our questions, other than a report expressing the preference for a political solution. Of course, that always applies, but it can help to have a stick behind the door. Can the Minister answer this question? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. I've stayed well within my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr Teeven has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u18	A point of order, indeed, Mr President. Would it be possible for the Minister to answer a number of questions in writing before 10 a.m. tomorrow morning? I'm looking around now. I do not know what the procedure is for defence, but it would be helpful if some of the questions put today could be answered in writing in advance so that we can have a better debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-7.u19	This is pretty standard. I also see the Minister nodding in agreement. In addition, I would say to the Minister that it would be nice if she had responded in writing to the amendments that have been tabled. That's not standard, some rulers do and others don't, but it's always nice when this is already there.
