ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u1	I welcome everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery, as do all those who sympathise with us in other ways this evening. In particular, I would also like to welcome the ruler and his official support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. There are two matters dealt with in the law we are discussing today. I'm the first speaker today. Then I always think it is nice to explain what we are talking about, at least to the people in the public gallery; there are two of them today, but of course there are a lot of people watching. The first is an extension of the right to speak for victims and relatives in criminal proceedings. The second is the extension of the scope of the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. Let me start by saying that the SP is very pleased with the coming of this law. Much has already been set in motion by the practice itself, by judges, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Damage Fund and everyone else involved, but it is good that this is finally enshrined in this law. It is an important law, which recognises victims and relatives. I have always had a lot of criticism of this cabinet when it comes to the destruction of security, but I think it is really appropriate if I also say today that the SP is very pleased with the much work that has been done prior to this law. At the time, Secretary of State Teeven made a huge effort to do this; I think it is worth naming. I am also grateful to the Ministry and all the field parties for the great work they have done. Thank you for that. There has been a great deal of thought, talk and debate on how the extension of the right to speak should look like. We too have thought a great deal about this, which, of course, is well reflected in our written input to this law. For example, we have thought about whether or not to cut up the law, about the two-stage process and whether or not to give advice to victims. In our opinion, the final legislative text takes due account of all considerations. We are satisfied with the choice not to go further with the right to advise, not only because it may take more time for victims to deal with the criminal case, but also because victims may be double victims by suddenly being seen as witnesses. So much for the appreciation of the choices made in this law. But the Minister also knows me as a critical MP, and I do not want to disappoint him today. Hence a number of questions. I shall begin with the question on the justification of the judge in the judgment. If a victim or next of kin speaks during the trial, his statement may now be included in the judge's judgment only if he is sworn in as a witness. At the same time, in answering our questions, the Minister admits that the statement of the victim or the surviving speaker who has not been sworn in as a witness could be taken into account in the balance of interests of a judge. A judge, of course, takes very many factors into account when determining the degree of punishment and cannot motivate everything. But if a statement had such a big influence on judgment, wouldn't it be very neat that a judge reflects that in motivation? I should therefore like to ask the Minister if he would ask the judges to explain more in their judgment how they appreciate the victim's speech. I would like that to the victim himself, but it is also useful, according to research by Radboud University on behalf of the dome of criminal justice, the National Consultation Course Content Criminal law. This shows that extending the statement of reasons leads to a broader understanding of the judgment. The reason for this study was the project started ten years ago to improve the motivation of criminal sentences, which has been named PROMIS, which I think is a very nice name for this investigation. The objective of PROMIS was to give the defendant, the counsellor and other stakeholders in society as a whole a better understanding of the court's thinking process. According to PROMIS, judges who write a judgment give more detailed and structured reasons for their judgment, according to the investigation. The reader and the victim thus gain more insight into the way the judges think than is the case in the classic, legal judgments. Can the Minister explain why he does not ask this from judges in cases where the right to speak has been applied? Why doesn't he at least ask the judges to give more reasons for the verdict? Finally, another point. Victims and survivors are now given the right to speak at the start of a criminal trial, but at the hearing on the extension of the TBs, victims and survivors have no right to speak. The SP is keen to arrange this for the victim and the next of kin at the time of a TBs hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u3	Despite the interesting last point, I have asked about the point before that, the motivating by the judge of facts and circumstances by victim or next of kin. Is that an obligation to state reasons, namely that the judge must motivate if something is stated, or is it voluntary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u4	I have also thought a long time about this; many considerations have been taken into account by the SP Group in relation to this law. We are not asking you to impose this as a duty. The request to the Minister is to ask judges, because it is in the interests of survivors and victims to gain more insight into their argument during the court hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr Recourt, your follow-up question, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u6	I'm gonna get rid of that. I agree. You can ask why not, but that doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u7	It is certainly not forbidden to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u8	That's really nice! Mr. Chairman. I already spoke about the right to speak at the hearing on the extension of the TBs. The reason I am asking for that right is that I, at a hearing, perhaps the Minister himself was present at that meeting once spoke to a woman whose ex-husband had committed a violent crime. They had kids. That mother said she was very concerned because she and her children were threatened and she did not have the opportunity to express those concerns to a judge. She missed that opportunity. I think it would be desirable for the judge to hear such cases firsthand from a victim or next of kin. This court can then take this into account and, if necessary, impose special conditions on a TB's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u9	I find it very charming in itself what Mrs Kooiman is proposing and I am also curious about the Minister's response to that point. But I am still looking for what might ultimately be the added value, also for the sake of tonight's precision for the sake of the Acts. After all, the victim has had every opportunity, that is also the beauty of this law, to say what he wants to say at the start of the criminal proceedings. What added value is there in repeating it or not in the event of an extension, which, of course, no longer concerns the imposition of penalties as such?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u10	Apart from the fact that I heard during hearings of next of kin themselves that they would have liked to speak to a judge, Victim Aid Netherlands and the Federation Survivors Victims (F.N.G.) that they see this as added value. That is why I put this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u11	I have a brief follow-up question. I read, I believe in the note in connection with the report, the remark suggested by Victim Aid Netherlands about any discussion between the victim and the prosecutor. Could this not, in Mrs Kooiman's view, achieve exactly what she advocates? Or is this not sufficient in her perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u12	I would consider it an important step, but it is not for nothing that I should like to present this opportunity to the Minister, precisely because it sometimes seems a bit different when something is said to a judge firsthand. I would therefore ask the Minister to at least examine the possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. Following intensive treatment, the Dittrich Initiative Act entered into force in 2005. This gave victims of a number of crimes the opportunity to speak during a trial. A limited right of speech was deliberately chosen at the time. The victim was allowed to express himself or herself about the consequences of what had happened to him or her, but it was considered undesirable that the victim, for example, should also address the question of guilt or punishment. We've been ten years. The law does its job and the practice has evolved. Victims who make use of the opportunity to speak make grateful use of this. Against this background, we are now discussing the removal of restrictions imposed at the time. An important starting point for this is the organisation of the criminal proceedings in our country for the Christian Union Group. We have used an inquisitory form, especially since the Code of Criminal Law was introduced in the nineteenth century. The violation of criminally secured legal standards is seen as a violation of the interests of the community. Criminal prosecution thus has a strong public dimension. Victims and survivors are not formally parties to the trial. In this sense, the protection against legal rift is objective. The danger of this is that victims and next of kin are only on the sidelines. This does not always do them justice. The victim's position has become stronger over time. For example, prosecution can be requested. The introduction of the right to speak also fits in with this trend. It was a more controversial attempt to put the interests of victims and survivors in a position in criminal law, particularly at the hearing. At the time, the objections were expressly raised. It was argued at that time that such a choice would actually require a new set-up of the criminal justice process. In addition, it was feared that too high expectations of the victim had to be met. Despite these objections, the bill was convincing. Since then, victims of certain crimes have the right to speak. Against the background of this discussion and the way in which we set up our criminal justice system, we are holding this debate. The key question is for my group: does the bill serve justice? This is, after all, a shared interest of society and victim. In this context, I would like to raise a number of issues. First of all, I note that most of the victims are positive about the current right to speak, according to the 2010 evaluation. That raises the question of what problem we are solving with this bill. Why is this enlargement necessary? Victims already have the right to speak and that is in 2012, for example, in connection with the Robert M. case, already extended by judge and legislator. Moreover, in practice, the restriction of the right to speak is not dealt with very strictly. The judge deals in wisdom with the psychology of the moment, but at the same time knows that he doesn't need or need anything directly with the victim's comments. The victim knows that in advance, so those expectations are clear. In addition, the judge now has a legal stick behind the door to intervene in excessively extensive judgments on penalties and guilt, especially when this can mean that the victim himself is being over-sucked in the criminal proceedings. I wonder whether a general jurisdiction for the courts to intervene, without restrictions on the right to speak from the legislator, is useful. I'd like to get a response to that. The bill we are now discussing made a false start by highly negative opinions on the Minister's original plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u14	I have a question about the previous point. Mr Segers said that the judge is quite flexible in practice. That's right, and I recognize that, but doesn't that give you some degree of arbitrariness? You can hit a tough judge or a smooth one. Wouldn't it be better to settle that with one legal standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u15	That's the question. If you give the power to intervene, but no directive at all, the arbitrariness in the area of guilt and punishment, which clearly has a fence around it, can sometimes be stronger than it is now. Is it not too noncommittal and too broad, so that a judge could indeed act at random?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u16	But that arbitrariness is no longer there if you no longer restrict the right to speak but to the order of the hearing: you can say whatever you want, but you realize that you can be called as a witness when you talk about the evidence or the measure of punishment. It must also be within the limits of the appropriate. If that's what you want, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u17	That order can be understood very widely. My question is whether this is not too broad and whether it should not be framed further. Don't judges need a directive to know what's in the order of the case and what's not? So the question remains whether it is not too wide. As I said, the bill has been falsely launched by very negative opinions on the Minister's original plan. All parties from the field and the Council of State were opposed to the right of advice for victims. It is a point of profit that the Minister has removed the right of advice. In the new proposal, the judge seems to have nothing to do with what is being put forward by the victim. However, this raises the question of what is the function of the victim's statements on, for example, punishment and guilt. After all, the victim will be able to say something about anything. Do the victim's comments continue to float in court or should the judge involve them in his consideration? Isn't it all within the court's own observation at the hearing? In the 2010 evaluation of the right to speak, the researchers assumed that the limitation of the right to speak would be a function for the judge. It gave some clarity about what is and is not part of the order. That's what we were just talking about. Doesn't that clarity threaten the judge with this bill to be lost? What should the judge or not do with the victim's words? For the 2005 bill, it was assumed that the judge would have to weigh the consequences for the victim. There's still some logic in that. But for punishment, that's different. When statements made by victims are to be taken into account by the courts, this raises questions. How is that supposed to be done? How does this relate, for example, to the general public objectives of criminal law? Are they leading? Doesn't the Minister in fact introduce an advisory right in a hidden sense with the right to speak? That was just taken off the table. There is, after all, a statement by a victim about the degree of punishment or guilt, which the judge puts at least a judgment on in his judgment, even if he does not respond directly to the victim's statements. Doesn't it almost make sense for a judge to respond to the victim's statements? I'd like to get a response to these questions. I also have a few questions on the premise that this bill serves the victim's position. The evaluation has shown that far from all victims make use of the opportunity to speak under the current regime. Justice has invested a lot in informing victims about the advantages and disadvantages of using the right to speak. In the 2010 evaluation of the right to speak, researchers suggest that many victims are helping to refrain from speaking because of the risks involved. As a victim or next of kin, you can use it to maneuver yourself into the criminal proceedings without having intended this. How does the Minister assess this in the new situation? Fortunately, the evaluation of the right to speak in 2010 shows that victims are rarely called as witnesses. This prevents victims from taking additional risks in order to get an extra blow through the proceedings at the hearing, the so-called secondary victimisation. The question is whether this will continue to be the case if victims are given the right to speak freely. Can the greater risk of ending up in the criminal case itself not be a deterrent? Is there any investment in good information, as was done in 2005? Then talking about cases like guilt, evidence and punishment. The risk is that we're throwing disappointment here. The evaluation shows that victims appreciate the right to speak, but would like to influence the penalty. That does not alter the fact that they are positive about the current possibilities. In any case, it can be said that false expectations are not raised. For this reason, the Christian Union Group would like to rule out the possibility of talking about a measure of punishment. Then you'll avoid those false expectations. Mr Berndsen has an amendment in preparation with regard to penalties. We would like to co-sign it. The same applies to the amendment on the addition of an evaluation clause. A very useful evaluation of the right to speak was carried out in 2010 and it would be good if this were to happen again. My group has raised a number of critical questions about the legislative proposal. We look forward to answering these questions and will also determine our final assessment on the basis of them. Together with the PvdA Group, we have put a pressing question to the previous Secretary of State for Security and Justice on recovery law in the course of the budget debate. Of course, this also affects the victim's position and the possibility of reconciliation. Then there was the generous promise to make a note of this with Prince's Day. Does the Minister still intend to present that note on Princess' Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u18	I hear that the Christian Union is asking a number of critical questions to the Minister about the extension of the right to speak. I think it is appropriate to ask the Minister about this if there are any doubts about it. I did have a question for the Christian Union that I could not find out in those questions. The evaluation showed that half of the victims would very much appreciate an extension of the right to speak. How does the Christian Union take that into account in its opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u19	We weigh that very much, because it is an important signal. The reinforcement of the victim's position, giving the victim room so that he or she is not just standing along the sidelines, is an important note. We are therefore very concerned about this. However, it would be very unwise to raise false expectations around the level of punishment that cannot be fulfilled. That's where our concern lies. That is why we are working together with the D66 Group. Shouldn't you rule that out, because you sometimes do them less justice than you do when you clarify the issues that can or cannot be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u20	I'm just thinking. Victim's gonna be right over there. He has time and energy and he has probably conquered himself to tell that heavy story he wants to tell, but suddenly he's talking about the measure of punishment. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u21	The right to speak is already being handled smoothly. A judge must deal with this in wisdom, and that is why information is so important. If the expectations are right, you can avoid disappointment. A judge will deal with that in wisdom. However, it will have to be made clear in advance that you may wish for this punishment to be very high, but that the victim is not about that. Information is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr Segers actually says: I would like to extend the right to speak, but I still see a limitation in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u23	The latter is true. I have asked many questions about the right to speak, and I hope the Minister will answer them. There are still some questions to ask, but that is a fairly adequate summary of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u24	I conclude from the words of my colleague from the Christian Union that the victim must be protected from secondary victimisation and, for this reason, should not talk about punishment. I find it somewhat contradictory that Mr Segers then gives the victim all the strings, when it comes to the right of recovery. That is where such a disappointment occurs, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u25	I have underlined the importance of the right of recovery. Mr Recourt has done so much more, because he has presented a note in the course of the budget debate. You give room for recovery, but you can never force people to reconcile. Reconciliation will have to come from both perpetrator and victim. That's why you're offering space and opportunities for that. The results of the pilots are very positive, so I have high expectations of that. They will have to be further worked out, but it is also in the interests of the victim, because then he can do his story. Of course, you also hope that an unsub will think and change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u26	It might get a little clearer to me. However, the fact that a victim must be protected in criminal proceedings and is considered to be full and complete in the process of recovery does seem to me to be somewhat double-sided or contradictory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u27	Then I'm glad I can make that clearer, because if a victim looks forward to a meeting with a perpetrator, he can never be forced to come to that meeting. If he can't handle a meeting like this, it'll never lead to a meeting. However, if a victim says that he would very much like to have a meeting, if a perpetrator repents and is open to the story of the victim, it can be very beneficial, both for the treatment of the suffering caused to the victim and for the process of change in the offender. The tests show that this is very beneficial. Even then, the victim has the directing role and it's about what he can and can't handle. The floor is up to him or her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. The right of victims and relatives to speak in court is a fundamental right. It gives victims and next of kin a voice in the process. Indeed, they are the ones who have been harmed. Serious crimes, such as violence or a sex crime: they intervene deeply and leave deep traces. That emotional damage must be visible to the judge and the defendant. This visibility can help to repair the emotional damage. It may even have a preventive effect. Ten years ago, this gave rise to the D66 initiative to give rights to victims and relatives in criminal proceedings. Such reinforcement of the victim's position is not on its own. It calls for a review of the balance between all actors in the criminal proceedings. In the criminal trial, truth finding is central. The right to speak must be at the service of that truth finding and should not unduly burden the criminal proceedings. My fellow party member, Boris Dittrich, had to look very closely at all the advantages and disadvantages of his speech initiative in 2004. What does it do to victims? What does it mean for the criminal trial? At the time, it was already noted that his statement did not allow a victim to be victimised again and that there was no need to raise expectations that could not be met. This led to the introduction of a limited right of speech in 2005. The victim may make a statement at the hearing about the experienced suffering and how the crime committed has infringed his or her life, but not about the evidence and the level of punishment. The cabinet now proposes to go a maximum step further and no longer limit the right to speak. From now on, the victim and the next of kin can talk about everything. The central question before us is whether this is desirable and sustainable. The D66 Group strongly supports the right to speak. However, we do not think that this unlimited extension is desirable. This bill cannot be summarized, as the Minister seeks to do, as simply formalising the existing practice. There are, after all, judges who do not allow a more far-reaching right to speak. They follow the rule and not the exception. Today's legal inequality arises precisely because judges allow more than is regulated by law. Nowhere does the bill show the added value for the victim and for the criminal trial, if the victim is allowed to say anything about the evidence and the measure of punishment. We do not have figures on the number of victims and survivors who wish to exercise full rights to speak. There are also no figures available on the number of cases heard by victims after exercising their right to speak. The Minister writes literally about this: 'I cannot now make an informed statement on the extent to which they would wish to do so, or to what extent they would wish to do so.' Now there are between 200 and 250 people who exercise their right to speak. We read in the legislative proposal how many there will be in the near future. An evaluation of the right to speak was carried out in 2010. This would show that the current right to speak is not a matter of disappointment among victims. They are positive about the right to speak, the just outcome of the criminal case and the confidence in police and justice. Of course, victims want more influence on the outcome of a criminal case, but that is precisely the difficult point. On the basis of the evaluation, Secretary of State Teeven did not consider it desirable to extend the right to speak further. It would greatly alter the character of the right to speak and have consequences for the victim's position in the criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u29	In Mrs Berndsen's contribution, I am looking for what she ultimately wants. Is she and her party at a sort of arbitrariness where the victim has to wait and see which judge he is facing and who he is restricted to in what he wants to bring about? Or is Mrs Berndsen in favour of the victim's freedom to bring forward the suffering he himself has not asked for in the way the victim himself chooses?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u30	If, through legislation, judges are given the clear directive that the right to speak is limited to what is now the case, with the exception of the expression of the penalty, there can no longer be any arbitrariness. Then it is perfectly clear what this law is about. That is also what I am achieving with my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u31	I shall explain Mrs Berndsen's contribution in such a way that she does not seek to be arbitrary but rather to restrict the right to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u32	Certainly, but that is not a restriction on the current right to speak, but a restriction on the legislative proposal as it stands. I was just talking about Secretary of State Bitch. Now I would like to talk about MP Van der Steur, because he was, on the other hand, a great supporter of enlargement. Strikingly enough, I read in Minister Van der Steur's bill about the objections of former Secretary of State Teeven little more. The fair question of what exactly helps the victim and the criminal proceedings if the victim can give his opinion on the level of punishment is not answered. The bill is based rather unilaterally on a need that would live among victims and next of kin. The actual added value for both the victim and the criminal proceedings is not mentioned. Expectation management seems to be sufficient, but let's face it, a victim who takes the trouble to say something about the evidence and the measure of punishment also has certain expectations. The victim will expect the judge to take his opinion and that it will affect the final judgment. That leads to some strange situation in the criminal trial. So how does the victim's sentence relate to the prosecution's claim? Defining the question of guilt or proof that suspect is the culprit and what the punishment should be, is argued in our criminal proceedings according to legal and legal criteria. That's not for nothing with the D.A.'s office, with the D.A.'s office. It is precisely in the interests of the victim and society that it is appropriate to argue the matter. What can the victim's opinion on the degree of punishment add to the truth finding? How's the judge gonna tell you this in court? The victim decides how to use his right to speak. Can this mean that action should be taken at the hearing if the statement goes beyond just one's own experience? Is that up to the judge? Or is the witness only sworn on the proposal of the defense or the prosecution? What standards can the judge then use to determine whether swearing-in as a witness is at issue? How is the judge supposed to handle a sentence before the sentence? They are not on an equal footing, but they are going to relate in a certain way. The Minister writes that a mature victim will often not be satisfied with a moderate attitude of the Public Prosecutor's Office and with a balanced punishment requirement; sometimes the victim will be critical of the way the preparatory investigation has been carried out. What does the Minister base this statement on? So what exactly does he intend to do in front of the D.A.'s office by having the victim explain this at the trial? Does he expect the D.A. to move more with the victim? Or does he expect more sympathy with the judge? How are we supposed to see this? The Minister also writes that the final sentence imposed will often differ from the punishment sought by the victim. However, he does not want to oblige the judge to explain the verdict to the victim. The judge also does not have to take into account the victim's personal circumstances. That would make the court's workload too much more difficult. However, such a statement by the victim merely creates a feeling of empathy and because she was put forward at the trial, no doubt for judges a sense of obligation to respond to it. What if one does respond and the other doesn't? Will judges be able to hold the statement at an appropriate distance in their final judgment? Then what is the point of taking note of that sentence at the hearing? Even if the statement has been made as a sworn witness, it has not yet been established on the basis of the legal and legal criteria that apply to it. The judge cannot therefore consider her as such in his final judgment. Some judges already allow it in practice: an incriminating statement about the evidence and the measure of punishment. But there is no evaluation of how that works. The fact that this bill should codify the practice of judges who deviate from the legal rule, because otherwise there will be legal inequality, is a crooked reasoning. Equality of law may exist if judges respect the scope of the right to speak more closely. That's what I just said in the interrupting debate. The Minister does not even know to what extent this inequality exists in the various courts and what consequences it has for the parties to the proceedings. Without knowledge of the extent and consequences in practice, it is not appropriate for a careful legislator to make the rule of derogation. So there's a good chance that it's gonna be a disappointment for a victim. The judge can and will judge differently in most cases. The victim is also at risk of being questioned by the defense. After all, there is a suspect on trial, whose guilt has not yet been established. So there's a chance of secondary victimization. So does the Minister himself. Why would we want to expose victims and next of kin to this? The chance of victimisation by interrogation may be reduced by the assistance of a lawyer, the Minister states. Isn't it this same cabinet that minimizes legal aid? Then that protective assistance only applies to the victim or the next of kin with a full wallet. How does the Minister see this? Restoration of emotional damage to the victim or the next of kin can be imagined in a statement on the consequences of the suffering inflicted. A desire for punishment that gets little weight and can't be honored doesn't appear to be reparations. The Public Prosecutor's Office should reduce the expectations of victims and relatives, according to the Minister. But if the district attorney prepares the victim for punishment and punishment, why should the victim have to speak about it himself at the hearing? We must also prevent the victim's statement from too much affecting the sentiment in court. The defendant hasn't been convicted yet. The criminal trial serves the truth. And what does more speakers mean for the course of business? More speakers who may be provided with a lawyer: this more often means delay. To what extent will that be the case, the Minister cannot oversee. This will come later, at the expense of the lead times in the justice system, with the result that victims will have to wait longer for their case to be resolved. So the fair question is: what good is the victim with all this? And what is the point of the criminal trial and the truth finding? Looking at the countries around us isn't gonna do anything. Belgium and Germany do not have an unlimited right to speak as proposed by the Minister. The objections I have just raised are not new. They have also been discussed in detail in the introduction of the current right to speak. It is therefore surprising that this bill ignores the red flags that were levied in 2004 on a limitless right to speak. The victim deserves a strengthened position in the criminal proceedings, but blind sailing on what victims would like, simply does not go into criminal proceedings. The Public Prosecutor's Office, the judge, the defense: the criminal trial is a combination of all those actors. Proposals in favour of the victim must remain in the interests of the victim. This bill is too much for the Minister. D66 cannot therefore support such an extension of the right to speak that it includes the measure of punishment. Although my group proposes to give more room to the right to speak, so that the victim can say what has happened to him, what consequences that has had for him and how he is going to experience the criminal proceedings, it does not want to comment on the extent of the penalty. If this bill is to succeed, preferably with my amendment, then an evaluation of the law is in order, precisely, to get a good picture of its consequences. I have also prepared an amendment to that effect. Finally, it is regrettable that this bill also sees in almost one breath the expansion of the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. We'll see that as a less hot hangar. My group has no direct objection to extending the deadline to ten years. The safety net function of the compensation fund is imaginable. As far as my group is concerned, this could have been done very well as a separate proposal. That is not the case now. So, unfortunately, the feasibility of this depends on what the Minister does with the right to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Chairman. The next item is the victim's right to speak in court and the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. The majority, of course, concerns the right to speak. This is the last step in the extension of the right to speak, which began with Mr Dittrich's initiative. But, yes, never say "last" and never say "never," because who knows... Mrs Kooiman already came up with a not so crazy suggestion about tbs. In any case, we have taken a big step. I'll start by remembering the history of this subject. The Minister will not like that, because it was his first defeat as a Member of Parliament. On 15 May 2012, MP Van der Steur and MP Recourt tabled an amendment to this effect: the "free" right of speech. "Free" then stands between quotes, because it must fit within the order of the session. I do not know whether that amendment has been voted down or that it has been withdrawn. Afterwards, I'm glad. It is good that we now have a broad parliamentary debate in the Chamber. In this sense, amendments are vulnerable to the legislative process. So that's a profit, with the knowledge of today. The amendment then entered into the coalition agreement. There was another step from the previous Secretary of State, which, as far as I am concerned, fortunately did not make it. Now, again, there is the original amendment in the form of a legislative proposal. As the author at the time, I am particularly pleased and content with that. Why? At the time, with my experience as a criminal justice officer, I was already in favour of no longer restricting the right to speak. As soon as the victim is well informed and supervised, that is, of course, a condition, so I immediately ask the Minister whether this will happen. The victim himself is able to say what he or she says and why. The vast majority of the victims I have spoken and experienced are made up of very reasonable people. They understand that if they think there should be a strong punishment, the defendant can still be acquitted. Moreover, that is no different from the current right to speak; it is also a risk today. They also understand that the judge won't say to the victim: okay, that's what we're gonna do. The judge also has other interests to consider. I'll mention the personal circumstances of the suspect, who may become a perpetrator at any time. The district attorney's not just standing for the victims. He has a double hat on, because he also stands for society. Those interests may break up. The officer can say something else based on the importance of society than the victim would wish. Ultimately, it's about taking the victim seriously and telling him: you say something happened to you, these are the boundaries, that's how our criminal process works, you realize that, but we also understand that you want to be involved. After all, it's about something that's been done to the victim, the moment the case is proven. The great gain of this bill is that the victim knows, knows and does not need to be angry. He's being heard, and he understands that there are limitations to that. The D66 amendment concerns the penalty. I admit that there are risks involved, but I do not think that is the greatest risk. The victim will understand that if he pleads for life imprisonment, that will rarely happen anyway, or a firm sentence, this is not the only one. A much greater risk is at the point of evidence. The victim could say: it didn't happen at all; I was there myself. In that case, the lawyer or the officer will say that the victim must be heard as a witness. That is right, because if there is doubt about the means of proof, if someone who was present says that it did not happen, then it is a good thing that this is brought forward. That is not good for the efficiency of the criminal proceedings, but that is good for the truth. Once again, with good information, I do not think that is a major objection to this law. Furthermore, Victim Aid The Netherlands is also not an insignificant player in this area in favour of the current legislative proposal. My group is not in favour of another criminal trial. That's not in the bill either. We don't want some kind of "Nebenklager" in the German system. We must, above all, preserve the current inquisitory process. This is not only an efficient process, but also a careful process. The only player still missing, but now slowly, step by step more present, is the victim. That's what we're talking about tonight. Next, a comment on the SP initiative on tbs and the right to speak. I'm asking the Minister to respond to that. I believe that the situation of the victim or the next of kin should also be considered in the event of possible suspension, leave or removal of TBs. That's relevant. I still have doubts as to how that should be done. I would like to hear the Minister's response to the SP initiative. This shows that I have a positive basic attitude towards this initiative. We have often talked about the two-stage process. The problem is that one speaks to the victim when the suspect is not yet a perpetrator. I have long thought that we should go for this two-stage process, but for two reasons that is off the table as far as I am concerned. Firstly, the WODC study states on substantive grounds that this does not fit well in the Dutch process. Secondly, the pilot in Amsterdam has not yielded any results. Our position on this point is therefore not fundamental, but very practical. So we should not go further along this road. I have a very practical point, namely the appeals for the hearing. From the point of view of practice, I know there are times when things go wrong with that. That's highly frustrating. Everyone's here; the lawyer's here, the suspect's here, but the victim hasn't been called. Then a new session date must be planned. That has been better recently with the D.A.'s office, but we are going to extend the circle of spokespersons with this bill. Is that well prepared for the prosecution so that we don't have any further arrests? In doing so, I have made my points with regard to the right to speak. Again, I'm happy with it. In fact, I'm very happy. You need a long time in politics, but in the end you get things done, provided the bill is passed. And now I'm gonna keep quiet before I start on the next subject, because there's an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr Recourt seems to take on less weight that a victim can come into the position of a witness and can therefore be interrogated in person. Now it could happen by cutting legal aid that a victim is heard as a witness without an attorney present. What does Mr Recourt think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u35	There are a whole series of conditions, butts and relativizations, which I shall put forward here. One. Mrs Berndsen mentions the cuts, but that is not yet the case. Unfortunately that is or happy; it depends on how you want to see it. Two. The judge also has the possibility to refer back to the Judge Commissioner if he thinks that the victim's interests are not sufficiently guaranteed in court if he has become a victim-witness. Three. I don't think it's gonna happen very often. We are talking about a number of 250 at the moment, I believe. I myself suspect that this will not be much higher or lower; that has not been investigated but it seems logical to me. They're all victims who consciously want to express themselves. Of these, a small proportion will only talk about the means of proof, especially if the information is properly arranged. That's a condition. And of that small part, an even smaller part will be called as a witness. So I think it will only be a few things a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mrs Berndsen, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u37	I note that these are all assumptions, because no research has shown that this is true. I think it would be wise to evaluate the law anyway, so I hope that Mr Recourt will at least support the amendment on that. The question is whether the peeling, what Mr Recourt is doing, is correct. But I am glad that it is not yet time to cut legal aid, as Mr Recourt says. That gives hope for the future, because I can imagine that it is also important for the PvdA Group that victims who end up in such a position should receive assistance from a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u38	That may be important, as any witness may have an interest in being assisted by a lawyer. You also see it more and more happening that victims hire lawyers or get reimbursed, and rightly so. It is a whole new branch of sports within the legal profession and that development will continue. I don't think it's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u39	I heard Mr Recourt talk about risks when talking about the punishment of victims. We're both seeing these risks. We'll take a different look at it. In this context, he spoke of the importance of good information. What should this information consist of, and how could it be used to deal with the risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u40	Fortunately, in recent years, or more than in recent years, the Public Prosecutor has invested heavily in helping victims, as we hear from Victim Help Netherlands. In addition, victim support itself for serious crimes is provided, and that is usually also the case for special directors who take charge of the supervision. So it's happening from two instances. We can see that the quality of this has really gone forward with leaps and bounds. One aspect of this guidance and information is the question: what does a session look like, what is everyone's role and what can you expect? That's where it's at, of course. You can say whatever you want within the limits of the law, but do realize that the judge has the final say, that the judge must also take into account the person of the offender by the time the defendant is found guilty, and that the judge must also take into account the public interest. So there are a number of interests. In short, you will not be served at your beck and call. You're being heard and we expect the judge to take you seriously. I also agree that, above all, it should not be an obligation to state reasons. I have learned from practice that this brings with it a drama of case law and cassation at the Supreme Court and so on. But if the victim says something meaningful, but this can't be done at all, because... I do expect the judge to motivate something. If the victim has said that there must be a heavy penalty, the judge will always explicitly or implicitly explain why he believes that the sentence imposed is the right one. Then he must motivate what elements he has taken into account. I therefore expect the victim to be able to read back on all sides, in the information but also in the judgment of the judge, how his arguments have been weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr Recourt's expectations are clear, as is the way in which this information could take place. It seems like a clear and good story to me. We just don't have any guarantees; we don't know that it's happening and that it's happening right. So what guarantees are there? That's my first question. My second question is whether it will not be all the more beneficial to include an evaluation and look back very closely at whether there will be no false expectations that may frustrate people much more than help your victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u42	I am not afraid of false expectations because it will be discussed extensively. It is already mentioned in the current right to speak, and the new right to speak will not change that. But evaluation is always good. I have no reason to think so, but if this is a tragedy, we should not go through with it. I am waiting for the Minister's answer, but I cannot imagine that the cabinet has any difficulty with this. My group certainly does not. From D66 we expected nothing but an evaluation clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr Recourt continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u44	I'd like to talk about the compensation fund. With enlargement and the longer term, my group is very pleased, but we still have one wish. This concerns Dutch people who have become victims of serious crimes abroad. Is it not possible, also in view of the continued under-exhaustment of the fund, to allow this group of people to benefit from that fund? I find it very difficult to sell that it is said: you are all Dutch, but because you happened to be just over the border with Belgium, you cannot call on the fund. Then you can say: perhaps Belgium also has a fund. But perhaps Belgium does not have a fund. So let's just bring that group under the Dutch fund. If it can't be over, it can't be over, but because it's a relatively limited and small group, I have no doubt that it's possible. So I ask the Minister about the possibilities. My group would appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. "The position of victims deserves further improvement." That's on page 76 of the CDA's election program. In this respect, the CDA Group welcomes the legislative proposal. It's good that the victim in court gets the room to do his story. This does justice to the suffering that the victim is suffering, contributes to his own recovery and hopefully also has some effect of regret and repentance on the suspect and, if they are actually convicted, the perpetrator. Today is the provisional conclusion of a long-standing parliamentary debate on improving the victim's position through the so-called second-stage process. The CDA Group has been strongly involved in this in recent years and is also very pleased that extensive research has been carried out by the WODC. It does disappoint the CDA somewhat that the pilots never really got off the ground with the two-phase process. The first question to the Minister is therefore whether there was no political will to do so or whether there were other reasons to do so. The CDA Group welcomes the increased attention given to the victim's position in recent years. Where in the past the victim was not or hardly involved in the courtroom or trial, that is very different nowadays. However, there is still much to improve. This bill certainly contributes to that improvement. The interpretation of the concept of the right to speak in Article 302 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is now extended: there is a right to speak freely. However, I would like to make a comment: no substantial change is proposed in legal terms. The Minister stated in the note on the report that there was a codification of the right to speak 2.0, but, strictly speaking, the interpretation of the right to speak was not changed by law. This led the CDA Group in the written input to the question of why the government has come up with this bill and not much earlier put forward a separate legislative proposal on the proposed extension of the Compensation Fund Act for Violent Crimes. This change has been the subject of much less questions. Its treatment could probably have taken place much faster. Is it not the case that the proposed group of survivors of victims who have died as a result of a serious traffic offence could have previously been entitled to compensation from the Compensation Fund Violent Crimes? I'd like a response from the Minister. This is not an unimportant issue for the CDA Group. The Minister drew attention to figures from, among other things, Victim Aid Netherlands which show that the potential target group eligible for this fund is higher than the current number of applicants. Inflow will therefore increase by approximately 30 per year. The cost of this is €240,000. If this is a priority for the Minister, why did he link this change to the change in the right to speak, which is likely to have taken much longer to be dealt with? Could the Minister confirm that the need to adapt the right to speak in the case of victims has long existed? Victim help The Netherlands, as well as the Victim Aid Fund, the Association of Parents of a Murdered Child and the Foundation "Speaking Attention" have shown this. Then why has it taken so long, ten years, to change the right to speak? In fact, it is not even a legislative amendment, but a different interpretation of the concept of the right to speak. The CDA Group asks the Minister if he expects that much will actually change in practice. The evaluation shows that, in practice, judges rarely prevent victims from talking about the level of punishment. They are flexible in that. In the written reply, the Minister also states that it is important that the victim no longer has to wait to see whether he is dealing with an effective or a precise judge. This suggests something different from what the evaluation has shown, namely that the difference in the way in which judges give victims the room is significant. Can the Minister answer that? Can he also indicate that, if he thinks it is the case, this bill is really going to be a thing of the past? The Minister indicated that he would enter into consultations with the Council in the case-law on the possibility of combating inequality between courts in this respect and achieving a more equal interpretation. What are the results of that? I have a question about the sentence. The victim's interview doesn't talk about that by default. This is going to change, because the victim will be able to speak freely during the session. The Minister indicated that he thought it appropriate to discuss this at the victim's interview, either on the initiative of the victim or the next of kin, or on the initiative of the Public Prosecutor. That can indeed be very useful. The CDA Group asks the Minister to confirm that the current practice on this point is continued, but not all cases should lead to discussion of the penalty requirement. That has to be for the D.A. to assess. The CDA Group believes it should be left to the district attorney. He or she can determine whether it is wise to prepare the victim or the next of kin for, for example, the expected level of punishment. He can also wrist or the punishment he himself has in mind matches the victim's feelings. However, can the Minister also confirm that, if the victim or the next of kin do not need to speak about the sentence, the Public Prosecutor does not have to feel obliged to bring that up anyway? The victim's gonna be allowed to talk about everything from now on. This can lead to difficult situations, for example when a victim presents new information about the criminal proceedings or accusations about the action of the Public Prosecutor or the police. There is, of course, the possibility that a victim may still be heard as a witness in incriminating statements, but this will cause disruption of the hearing and chaos in the process that has been going on up to then. Does the Minister share the view that it is desirable for all parties to know as much information as possible prior to the hearing, including the views of the victim and any new information he wishes to add to the criminal proceedings? This way we can avoid unpleasant situations. The victim interview could be a good opportunity for the prosecutor to form an image of what the victim may still want to share in court. But is the information that the officer then gets from that call and what might be useful for the defense also shared with the defendant and his counsel? The Minister further states that a victim is only invited to a victim's interview if there is a case in which the right to speak for the multiple chamber may be exercised. But what about single treatments and the degree to which the D.A. is informed in advance of what a victim wants to bring in? Finally, Mr President. Today we are talking about the interests of victims and relatives. In particular, the CDA Group calls on the Minister to pay attention to the legal position of parents in criminal proceedings, in particular parents of abused children. The discussion about the legally weak position of parents is certainly more interesting than ever since the Amsterdam sex case. The CDA Group asks the Minister what exactly is the state of play since the EO broadcast of "This is the Day" in May 2014. In that broadcast, parents of an abused girl told us about the legal barriers they encountered after the abuse. They have united in the Foundation Strijd Against Abuse, which this minister is familiar with from his previous parliamentary membership. The Secretary of State then prepared a bill that would allow parents to join the criminal proceedings. However, this bill has still not been reached by the House of Representatives. What's the status? After all, the internet consultation round was closed in the summer of 2014 and would be sent to the Council of State in early 2015. Why is it taking so long for the bill to reach the Chamber? Does the Minister share the view that it is important that this bill be adopted quickly to do justice to victims, including parents of abused children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr. Chairman. I see that there is ten minutes behind my name, but if I am not mistaken, I have signed up for fifteen minutes. But I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman! Victims and survivors have the right to speak in criminal proceedings and this right to speak is not currently unlimited. Victims and survivors may speak only about the consequences of the crime they have suffered. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today removes this limitation, which allows victims and relatives to express themselves in exercising their right to speak about, for example, the penalties and other consequences they have suffered from the criminal offence, for example their feelings towards the accused. My group has always been critical of the extension of the right to speak. It is not because of its content, because it is sympathetic. There is also a need for the victims and relatives, as the website of the Federation of Survivors Victims of Violence, a umbrella organisation in which, among other things, attention Doet Voorken, is now well-known. As far as my group is concerned, that is where the criticism lies, because for my group there is a gap in the legislative proposal. Victims and relatives speak not because they want to speak, but because they want to achieve something with it. They want to be heard. Wanting to be heard implies that the speaker also wants his or her statement to be taken into account. However, there comes the gap between the court and the victim is not obliged to take account of the statement made by the victim or the next of kin. There is no provision in the judgment for the judge to dedicate a consideration to the participation of the victim or the next of kin. The Minister indicated in the note following the report on our questions that this was an increase in the workload of the judge. That is what my group considers to be of minor importance in relation to the importance of the victims and their families, who have to make the effort and overcome themselves in order to reach a decision at the sitting. That is why my group is considering a motion on this point, but first, of course, I would like to receive a response from the Minister. A second point, but not criticism, is that now that victims and relatives are given an extensive right to speak, the defense has the right to question them in response to their statement. That's right, because the defendant is innocent until proven guilty. The victim or the next of kin will then be sworn in as a witness, and that may well be profound. It is true, however, because of the innocence presumption that has just been mentioned. But for this reason, the desire to draw attention to this, my group asks the Minister whether he is prepared to review this law after a number of years to see whether problems will arise with the points I have just raised. By the way, I criticised this earlier during the legislative consultation on extending the right to speak on 21 May 2012. That was also the time when Mr Recourt referred to the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Steur and Mr Recourt. That amendment concerned the possibility of making a statement in plenary session. At that time, it was even more of an advisory right. I think I remember the example that was mentioned. Wouldn't it be nice, as was said, if the victim could point out something by saying, for example, that you saw this tire track, Mr. Prosecutor? Anyway, I've been listening to colleague Recourt. He agrees with what it looks like now. My group is, too, but I would like to mention these points again. I come to the conclusion that my group is pleased that the then Secretary of State in the final legislative proposal we are discussing today did not take into account the right of advice here. That was a bridge too far, not only because of the danger of cross-examination, but also because of the fact that the criminal process became almost like a tripartite process and the risk of the victim becoming almost responsible for the success of the process. The Public Prosecutor's Office is the only prosecution, and it should remain that way. That is why we are also pleased that the letter of amendment states that questions to victims or relatives will be put by the Public Prosecutor or on behalf of the suspect through the President. The danger of a so-called cross-examination has disappeared. Too bad, however, that the bill does not contain an obligation for the defendant to appear. Although the presence of the suspect is indeed not decisive for all victims or relatives, it is of course particularly annoying to have to do your story in front of an empty chair, while you can be sworn as a witness if you use the extensive right to speak. In doing so, my group has always believed that in the event of a crime, someone has to answer to the victim or the next of kin in particular and to society in general. In this context, someone must be present at the hearing, at least at the time of the ruling. It will not be surprising that I am considering a motion on this point, although, of course, slightly modified in response to the letter from the then Secretary of State of 4 October 2013, to which the Minister referred in response to Parliamentary questions from the recent VVD Group. In addition to an extension of the right to speak, this bill extends the Damage Fund Violent Crimes Fund for relatives of victims of serious traffic offences or of the crime of death by guilt. My group agrees with this enlargement. It is now the case that only survivors and victims of deliberately committed violent crimes are eligible for benefits, but also survivors of victims who, as a result of a serious traffic offence or the crime, should be entitled to such benefits. In this way they can also receive compensation for the affection damage suffered, the so-called intangible damage. That is not possible at the moment. I do have a question on this point. From the opinion of the Council of State, it can be seen that relatives of the victims of the crime would initially not be eligible for a benefit because of financial considerations. However, the explanatory statement shows that, fortunately, there is financial scope. This is due to the fact that the amendment of the Compensation Fund Act of 1 January 2012 has had less budgetary impact than previously estimated. Indeed, the number of applications has increased less than anticipated following this legislative amendment. Although my group's agreement to the present legislative proposal does not depend on this, I do ask what if the number of applications made on the basis of this legislative proposal is greater than foreseen. Is there going to be a restriction? Rounding up. I can see by the way that I would have stayed well in time. I have a number of questions for the Minister, and there are only two motions in the air, I would say, but for the time being my group can agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group wants to do justice to the interests of victims and relatives, and that is why it wants to extend the right to speak for victims of serious crimes. Following on from a colleague earlier this evening, I will start with a quote, but a quote from my own election programme, a quote on which I have discussed in numerous rooms in anticipation of my membership of the House of Representatives and which I have discussed with colleagues or future colleagues. After the formation, the subject was regularly discussed at debates and meetings outside this Chamber, also in connection with the agreements made between the coalition parties on this subject. Perhaps the initiatives are back on track, as I understand. It was recently regulated by law that the circle of people who were given the opportunity to make their voices heard was expanded. Then we are talking about the right to speak for next of kin and minors. This legislative proposal removes the limitation that can only be spoken of the consequences of the crime they have faced. This, in my opinion and in my group's opinion, responds to the needs of victims who want to talk about the conduct of the crime or the conduct of the trial. This law makes it possible for the victim to have the freedom to give effect to the right to speak. The victim, who is unsolicited by aggression and violence, who has lost loved ones or has heard that his child has been abused, is allowed to speak without restriction and does not run the risk of being silenced. Of course, the practice is generally that judges deal with this with a great deal of empathy and compassion, but it cannot be ruled out that you do have a restriction. This has just been demonstrated by the interruption debate that I had with colleagues on this subject. It is therefore incredibly important that this restriction be lifted. The VVD has passionately advocated this. Now that is being shaped. I think that is extremely positive. However, I would like to draw attention to the position of the victim and any questions that may naturally arise. Following on from colleagues, I mention the re-experience of the trauma. It should be so, and I read this back in the note following the report, that a victim should be able, if he so wishes, to be properly advised and properly informed about questions such as: do I want to use that right of speech, what words do I choose, what consequences can that have, etc. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. I also read in the last note received that the judge is ensuring that the victim is properly treated and that he can prevent questions from the defence that could conflict with them. How does the Minister see that in mind? I had only a few minutes of speaking time and made it even less, because I want and can be brief about it: the VVD is really content with the proposal that is before us. It responds to a plea that we have been putting out for a number of years. It strengthens and respects the victim's position in criminal proceedings. In doing so, it responds to a strong wish that we share with victims and relatives, the desire to be heard and to be able to speak freely about the suffering that has been done to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u48	I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions. Interrupts in two, question and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of your Chamber for the comments they have made, in particular, to my predecessor Secretary of State, Mrs Teeven, on the way in which this bill has been prepared. Mr Van Helvert asked why it all took so long. That also explains why it took so long, because, particularly at the request of the CDA, an extensive investigation has been carried out into the possibility of a two-stage process. The handling of this bill shows how important the subject is and at the same time how important it is that we look very carefully at it and deal with it. That is why Professor Cologne was asked for advice on the two-stage process. A very well-founded opinion was submitted, which, to the surprise of many, shows that the reasons why the members of this Chamber thought about the two-stage process are not really there. On the one hand, it was the importance and position of the victim if he were to exercise the right to speak and, on the other hand, the two-stage process might play a role in resolving the problem of the refusing observers if there were tbs. Mrs Berndsen-Jansen rightly referred to the achievements of D66 in this area when, by means of an initiative law of former Member Boris Dittrich, that party introduced the right to speak in our Dutch criminal proceedings. The very special thing is that at that time the same thing happened with the rest of the Chamber as now only with D66. Perhaps that is a result of the law of the restraining edge: on the one hand, the fraction of D66 was very much ahead in the Chamber at the beginning of this century and on the other, it now has reserves as to the completion of the right to speak, as it has introduced here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u50	I note that this is pure entrapment and I would like to give Mrs Berndsen the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u51	I don't know if it's pure entrapment, but entrapment is for sure. You could also say that a sensible decision has been made in the past and that we would like to keep our wits about it again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u52	That is not a question, so you can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u53	I admit immediately that Mr Dittrich was very wise with his own initiative law, but at the same time I note that he also based this on an investigation at the time, which showed that more than 50% of the victims wanted to use the right to speak if it only had the limitations that it eventually became. At the time, unlike the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Chamber was not so far away from introducing a full right to speak. 84% of the people questioned at the time, so 34% more than the 50% said, however, that they would certainly have the right to speak if they were given full freedom to say something about the penalty. It was already clear back then that victims consider it important to be able to present their thoughts to the judge on the measure of punishment. Contrary to what is fortunately the case now in a large majority, the House of Representatives was not yet ready for this at the time. I would not be surprised if Mr Dittrich's own-initiative proposal had solved the problem that we are now trying to solve if the Chamber had been ripe for it. This is without prejudice to the fact that the D66 Group has taken the first step in the right direction, and it is good that the vast majority of this House is taking a second step in the right direction. We can only conclude that, in the period between 2005 and 2015, the position and the formation of thought in our society about how the victim should have a role in the criminal proceedings, in my opinion, has fortunately changed completely. This means that, at least as a result of Professor Cologne's research, we can say goodbye to the thoughts on the two-stage process. It also means that, in the light of the opinions adopted by Mrs Helder, we should say goodbye to the idea that a victim should be given a formal right of advice. There has been no support for this, not in the legal profession, not in the judiciary, not in society, nor in many of the victims I have understood, including from personal conversations I have had with them. I therefore believe that it is a good thing that this proposal did not reach this plenary. I also think it is right to establish that no one is saying that it would be important to have a separate trial position for the victim in the criminal proceedings. In Germany, they had that thought. Some Members of Parliament have referred to this. There is the Nebenklager's system, which has a separate trial position and is next to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the Netherlands, however, no one needs it, not even many lawyers do not support those victims. Mr Korver has argued in favour of this, but he has little support for it. The special thing is that we are now at least having a debate on the usefulness and necessity of the right to speak. It is clear that the victims themselves have a huge need for an extension of the right to speak. Many MPs have spoken to victims. They all indicate that they want to have the possibility of not having an obligation, but the possibility of telling the judge what they think of the penalty. I've been confronted with that for the first time by an Alkmaar young woman. When she opened the door, she found there a very confused and angry man who with seventeen stabbed her forever caused a spinal cord injury and almost killed her. By the way, she was a lawyer and knew like no other the position of the victim in the criminal proceedings and what the effect might be and would not be of passing your thoughts on the measure to the judge. She was the one who convinced me that you should be able to be a victim, if that's what you want, to say something about the measure of punishment. There is sometimes the idea in society that victims do not know exactly what the effects and possibilities are and that they may be disappointed. Victims, however, know exactly what the effects are and what the legal and legal possibilities are. They shall be informed thereof by their lawyer, if they have it. I should like to say a few words about legal aid to Mrs Berndsen in a moment. They shall be informed thereof by the Public Prosecutor. They are informed about this by Victim Aid Netherlands. They are informed of serious crimes by the family detective. They all tell them, as far as they didn't already know, that if you gave an opinion on the measure of punishment, the judge is obviously not obliged to comply with it. I will also reply to Mrs Helder's question on this subject. The same goes, of course, for the prosecutor, who generally asks the same question in the victim's interview. This would allow both the prosecutor and the judge to take this into account. There are several ways they can do that. They can do that as Mr Recourt said. It might be a good thing if the judge indicated in the verdict: I fully understand what the victim said and what his wishes are, but the legal restrictions do not allow me to go there and for those and those reasons I come to this. I think it would make a lot of sense if the judge did that. The same goes for the district attorney. If you know that your punishment requirement doesn't correspond to what the victim would like, then it's very good that from your role as a prosecutor, in which you still vouch for society and for the victim and any next of kin, you state why you can't take over that desired sentence. But it's crazy if no one in court knows what the victim's punishment rate is. For this reason, the government believes it is so important that the right to speak is also left open on this point. I have seen the D66 amendment and the Christian Union. That is why I should not support it and should therefore be discouraged. If you want a victim's trial to be made clear why his wish cannot be taken over, not by the prosecutor and not by the judge, it is important that in the conversation with the prosecutor or at the hearing, but certainly by the judge at the hearing or in the judgment, at the choice of the judge, I would not want to make that an obligation to address where it belongs. Here's the question. What if the judge and the officer can't meet the demands of the victim, does that mean that the victim is disappointed? That's possible, but that's what the victim is being prepared for by the whole series of people I just mentioned: Public Prosecutor's Office, Lawyer, Family Detective, Victim Help The Netherlands. Is that worse than that the victim does not speak because it is not allowed, or speaks and experiences that the possibilities of speaking are limited by censorship, as almost all victims call it? They see it as censorship, because they cannot say what they want, while others, especially the suspect, are free to say what they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u54	The Minister has just made it appear that he has investigated the situation of victims and that a large majority believe that they are wronged because they are not allowed to express themselves in full. I would point out to the Minister that he himself writes that these dates are not available at all. Surely you can't base a bill on the experiences of some people who have been spoken to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u55	Let me say first of all that I fully understand Mrs Berndsen's question. We have the investigation from the time when the right to speak was introduced by the initiative of the D66 Group. At that time, 84% of the victims said that they would use the right to speak if they were given full freedom to say everything, including judgments on the level of punishment. We also have the research referred to by Mrs Berndsen. Victims indicate that they would like to have more room for their right to speak. 50% say they're happy there's a right to speak, but we don't know about all the victims who haven't spoken. I honestly admit to Mrs Berndsen that we don't know that. The last five years in which I have had the opportunity as a Member of Parliament to be at all kinds of meetings of victims' organisations, I have always asked everyone how they feel about the right to speak. After all, I have been around since 2011 with the idea of doing something in the area of speaking rights. That is precisely why I wanted to check whether there was a need for an extension. In fact, all the victims who have used the right to speak, including the lady from Alkmaar I mentioned, have always said that they felt it was a huge obstacle. Then you come to the point of the legal inequality we have had in the Netherlands for a long time. Indeed, judges also recognise the importance of freedom for victims to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u56	I note that the Minister is now very definitely talking about figures and numbers of victims. That is contrary to what he himself writes, namely that he cannot now make a well-founded statement. Isn't that contrary to what the Minister is doing now? He has no foundation on which he can make such firm statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mrs Berndsen must listen carefully to what I say. I have two foundations. That is the research from the time of Mr Dittrich of D66. That's a very clear investigation. 84% say they will use the right to speak if you can also talk about the penalty. The second foundation is the research that Mrs Berndsen herself referred to, which states that victims believe by a large majority that they should have more room for speaking rights. Those are the facts. I have added that I have used the last five years to speak with many victims, judges, lawyers, the Association of Lawyers for Victims of People's Damage, family detectives, Victim Support The Netherlands, because I am already walking around with this idea. They all say the same thing, namely that it is important that the obstacle felt by the victims to be very burdensome is lifted and that we should have a free speech. Mrs Berndsen is absolutely right to say that this is not based on scientific evidence. But it is not worthless either, as Mrs Berndsen seems to suggest. After all, nobody said that it was very nice to be censored in relation to the victim's statement. No one has said to me that he would not have said anything about the measure of punishment and would not have spoken more broadly than the current law allows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u58	Interruption by Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u59	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I have another follow-up question. The Minister now puts me in the mouth that it's all worthless. I didn't use the word "dirty." All I've said is that you have to make well-founded statements based on well-founded research. I note that there is no recent well-founded investigation. I note that this well-founded research has not been carried out recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u60	I do not agree with Mrs Berndsen, because the research she herself referred to is also research and is well founded. I have my own observation, which is shared by a large part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u61	That is sufficiently explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u62	The Minister is right to emphasise that victims are happy with the right to speak. That's what we know. Then he added anecdotally that he himself had all kinds of conversations and heard that people would like to speak more. Well, I don't know if "anecdotal" is the right choice of words, because I was told earlier on oral questions that that has a different meaning. I mean that on the basis of a number of anecdotes and isolated meetings it is stated that it is very important not to have any obstacles. But we do not know how frustrated it is that the penalty cannot be discussed. We do not know how much frustration will be and what a shift of roles could result in if high deployments and penalties are punished much lower. It is therefore an assessment on which the Minister is quite sure, but we may know much less than he is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u63	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u65	At least that is the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u66	I understand Mr Segers' comment very well. It is in line with what Mrs Berndsen just said. She said, "How could you possibly know that?" I just tried to explain that. For five years I have spoken with an incredible amount of victims, judges, lawyers and family detectives and also with Victim Help Netherlands. They all say the same thing, namely that it is very important that the right to speak be released so that you have the opportunity to make use of it, provided that you are properly informed, I also say to everyone who referred to it. No one says that it should be restricted or that the current system is very pleasant, that it is very pleasant not to say anything about it when you might want to say something about it. But there are also a lot of people who say: I don't need to say anything about it, so I won't. For those who want to do it, there will be that freedom. Those who don't want to, don't have to. That is exactly what the government stands for: to give freedom to people who are generally very sensible and know exactly what they want, and to those who do not have an obligation to do so. From all the contacts I have had, I think that more Members of your Chamber have really shown no need for it or that there is any objection to it from all the bodies I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u67	I can imagine that, but we do not know what kind of disappointment it would be if you were allowed to speak freely of a undoubtedly high penalty for something that happened to you, for a perpetrator who did something to you, and then a low penalty is pronounced. That is what we should say in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u68	I agree entirely with Mr Segers, but we do know that almost every victim and almost every next of kin has ideas about that. There is hardly anyone who, after a violent crime, sexual assault or murder, has any idea what punishment would be appropriate. According to the law, these people are not allowed to tell about that idea now, even if they wanted to. We know that. That is exactly where I, as a Member of Parliament, got the motivation to say: because we know that, we want to free it up so that people have the opportunity to do something with it. However, Mr Segers rightly points out that it would be appropriate for the prosecutor and the judge to pay attention to the fact that a person can be accompanied by information when it comes to a disappointment, without making it compulsory. Moreover, in many cases there is a disappointment, although many victims and relatives know very well that what they are asking for is not possible. They want to have asked, just to make their statement, even though they also know that the judge cannot allow or commit to do so. I assume that the prosecutor and the judge will point this out, without any obligation, as proposed by Mrs Helder, among others. In doing so, and thanks to the interruptions, I have dealt with a number of objections that you may have against the legislative proposal, which I have a great deal of respect and understanding for. These concerns relate to the risk of secondary victimisation, the disappointment about the measure of punishment and the fact that it gives freedom but does not create an obligation. Then I want to say something about the risk that someone could be sworn in as a witness. There's a risk. Mr Recourt was right to say that this is the case. He was right to say that it should be. At the time of new information, Mr Van Helvert pointed out that this was also the subject of criminal proceedings, which might be burdensome or exculpatory for the defendant, then that information should also be considered as an official part of the criminal proceedings. So it is also logical that you, as a victim or next of kin of the victim, can then be heard as a witness. Mrs Helder has also referred to this in a careful way, but that must of course be possible. It is precisely the essence of the criminal proceedings that, if there is anything that is of great importance for the criminal proceedings, the court can give this formal consideration in the context of the same criminal proceedings. This risk, which indeed exists, needs to be well informed of the victims and their families. This task lies primarily with the organizations I have just mentioned: Victim help The Netherlands, the Public Prosecutor's Office, in very large cases the family detectives and in some cases also the lawyers with whom victims are assisted. Those who still have some doubts about this bill, I would ask you to reconsider what is already happening in court. Take the example of the lady from Alkmaar. At first instance, she was not allowed to explain the degree of punishment which she would have liked to do, and secondly, the court finally allowed her to do so, because the court also recognised that it was very important for her to be able to make that communication. So she was able to make that judgment in criminal proceedings. Many victims and survivors are currently entitled to do so from some judges. I have many of those judges, Mrs Berndsen, right: not all of them ask why they do that. The answer was reasonable: because they all understood that it was very important for victims and relatives to be able to do so. At the same time they indicated: for me, judge, it doesn't matter in my position, because of course I fulfil my own role and make my own consideration of the measure of punishment. However, these judges are very pleased to know what lives on a victim. Some judges also said that they were surprised by these communications, because the desired penalty was much lower than they intended to impose. So the latter can also occur. I admit that I haven't heard it often, as I say in the direction of the D66 group, but that happens. Those are the judges who have done this on good grounds, in the opinion of the government. We created a legal limitation in 2005, possibly because at the time the Chamber was not ready for the space we would like to offer now. However, judges see in daily practice that this is neither enforceable nor desirable. That's why it's being released. Then you can do two things. Then you can say it's against the law and can't. Technically, you're right to say that. However, you can also say: perhaps we should think carefully about whether we should change the law if judges do, if victims ask for it, if lawyers want it, and if Victim Aid Netherlands thinks it is a sensible idea. That is the direction the government has chosen. I say to the PVV Group and the D66 Group that the amendment tabled on the evaluation is essentially endorsed by the government, although the previous evaluation took place after a more sensible five-year period, in the government's view. That is wise, because we see that not many victims use the right to speak. This also means that, after three years, as is now proposed, we still have insufficient scientific basis. I understood from Mrs Berndsen precisely how important it is that you have a sound scientific basis. Is she therefore prepared to adapt her amendment to the usual five-year deadline? I have also seen that time limit in an amendment from D66 before. If so, I will wholeheartedly endorse that amendment and leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u69	I am glad that the Minister is learning so quickly when it comes to scientific support. I will amend my amendment and put it to five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you. I propose that, as Mrs Helder also pointed out, I think it is sufficient for me to give this undertaking, as Mrs Helder said, to look at what the judge then does with it, and even, as I said, I extend it to what the prosecutor then does with it. Then we'll catch two points at the same time. Firstly, that is Mrs Helder's need to include in the evaluation what the judge does with it. Secondly, what Mr Recourt has said. He says: I expect judges and prosecutors to do something about the reports of the victims. By the way, as a minister, I expect that too. I therefore propose that these two aspects be included in the evaluation. I also think, as I say to the PVV Group, that it is good to look at how the judge motivates, as far as I am concerned, that a voluntary option is what he does with what the victim has brought into that process. Perhaps the PVV Group will then be satisfied that this will be discussed. I will finish on the final aspects and then come to the substantive questions of the individual Members. Mrs Helder asked if it would not be good if suspects were obliged to appear as victims speak. Similar parliamentary questions have also been raised by the VVD Group, through Mr Van Oosten: would it not be good if suspects were in principle present at the hearing? He also asked about the defendant's presence at the time of the sentence. Mrs Helder also asked: would it not be important for that suspect to appear when the right to speak is exercised? I suspected that this would be discussed, also because this has already been discussed during the previous treatment. That's why I've personally had some further discussions with the D.A.'s office. Frankly, the answer was rather surprising to me, because I had not thought about it before and did not discuss it with victims before. The Public Prosecutor says that this issue is regularly raised in the conversations with victims. Then it turns out that a large number of victims, particularly in sex cases, have absolutely no need of it, even expressly does not want the offender to be the offender in their eyes, but in the criminal proceedings it is the defendant who is present in the exercise of the right to speak. For this reason, I want to maintain the current practice: judges can judge that it is desirable for the defendant to appear. If then a victim says to a prosecutor that he wants the defendant to be present, then the prosecutor can ask the judge: would you order the person concerned to be present? Then that wish will be fulfilled. However, I would be sorry if, after the introduction of a general duty of appearance for suspects, the victims would not speak because they do not want to speak in the vicinity of those who have made them victims of, for example, a serious sex crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u71	Normally you have to save the cliff hanger for the second term, but I'll give it to you now anyway. I have already indicated in my introduction in the first period that I have taken into account what the then Secretary of State indicated in his letter on this issue. I have a motion in preparation which states: to the extent that victims or relatives consider it desirable for the defendant to be present at the hearing. Perhaps this could slightly alter the Minister's consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u72	I really need to think about that. I do foresee a point there.The starting point is exactly what I am actually saying. The question is whether you should include that in the law and whether it is not easier to bring that point to the attention of the prosecutors once again. Otherwise, it creates all sorts of things. Honesty dictates that in recent years, with strengthening the criminal justice chain, it is incredibly better for suspects to appear. However, it would be a disaster if such an obligation of presence would lead to huge delays in criminal proceedings. That too is not in the interests of victims. I would like to look at this practical point, but if Mrs Helder appreciates it, I would like to consider it carefully once I have received the text of the motion. I'll just come to the general point...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u73	No. You will come to Mr Van Oosten's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u74	I shall, of course, await Mrs Helder's possible motion by tax. I think that the point made by the Minister prior to that is relevant. The Minister has said I will translate it into my own words, but I would like to hear if I have heard correctly that he is willing to talk to the Public Prosecutor and bring in that as victims to ask for the presence of suspects, if victims want this to have a place, to encourage and motivate it so that it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u75	I have that willingness. As I said, I've already talked to the Public Prosecutor about the appearance of suspects in general. For me, the outcome was surprising. I am happy to have the interview requested, as Mr Van Oosten asks, so that the practice we want to see as a victim can also be made possible by the officer who organizes it through the courts. I'd be happy to admit it. To Mr Van Oosten and perhaps also to Mrs Helder, I will formally ask for a discussion and I will inform the Chamber about the outcome. Perhaps that would give Mrs Helder a reason to hold her motion in the back pocket for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u76	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mrs Berndsen interrupted Mr Recourt on legal aid. I am delighted to be able to reassure Mrs Berndsen on this point. Moreover, the issue of legal aid for victims was discussed earlier in the Chamber with then Secretary of State Teeven. Under Article 44 of the Legal Aid Act, free legal aid is available to all victims of serious crime, regardless of income position. This is still the case despite the incredibly increased use of legal aid. As far as I am concerned, this will remain the case. Moreover, the above does not mean that this has run smoothly in recent years. In particular, recent attention has been paid to the referral of victims to funded legal aid. This has been significantly improved recently, so that implementation is in line with the legislation. I hope to have reassured Mrs Berndsen on this point. Perhaps it is a good thing that she reconsiders her position on the legislative proposal now that she knows that victims can be assisted by a judge. Maybe she's a little bit milder on the bill now that this important point is off the table. The right to speak at TBs has previously been discussed extensively in the Chamber. I do not know exactly when it was, but I remember that Secretary of State Teeven promised to speak with the Public Prosecutor's Office to ensure that the wishes and desires of victims will be checked again and again precisely in the event of the extension of TBs. This promise was also made in connection with the case that occurred in Enschede, where the same happened, only with a father and daughters. I recall that this point was raised by the Chamber at the time, and that was said at the time: we will ensure that, precisely in the event of an extension of TBs, the wishes of the victim will be checked over and over again. I know that the Secretary of State saw many practical objections, but that questions were asked by several Members of Parliament, and that was then promised to do so. Perhaps it is a good thing that I devote a chapter to this in the letter that I will send after the consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that I can outline to Mrs Kooiman and others who have asked for it in the past how it is implemented in practice. In this way we can determine whether the Court's wish for victims to be heard explicitly on what they consider appropriate for the purpose of renewal is met. I remember that at that time it was also about the conditions under which the extension would take place and about the conditional release. That is also what the Chamber has asked for. That is why I think it is right that I should explain in a letter what day-to-day practice is like today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u78	I thank the Minister for his commitment. The previous Secretary of State has indeed said that he wants to check that out. Victim help The Netherlands and the Federation Survivors Victims of Violence expressed their desire to see victims face-to-face with the courts. I ask the Minister to examine the possibilities in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u79	I will, but I will do so separately from the letter that Mr van Oosten and Mrs Helder asked for. Because I think I can send that letter a long time ago. So I admit that I will also talk to the Public Prosecutor about this aspect, but I will let the Chamber know in a separate letter, a little later than the first letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u80	Clear. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u81	I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Berndsen-Jansen of the D66 Group on the speed with which she has given shape to her commitment just now, because I see that a new amendment has been tabled, which has drawn the deadline for evaluation to five years. For this reason, I will graciously support this amendment, which has been signed by Mr Segers, Mr Oskam and Mr Kooiman, and leave it to the Chamber with a positive intention. This is not the case with the amendment that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen has not yet amended, but which she will probably withdraw after my ardent speech. That is the amendment which proposes to bring the penalty limit back into the legislative proposal. The essence of the bill is certainly not about the penalty. The essence of the bill is the freedom for victims to say what they want, even if that is about the penalty. In the light of the experience gained in the 2005 survey on Mr Dittrich's proposal and the generous support of all victim organisations for the freedom of speech, we would really be failing victims and victim organisations if we accepted that restriction. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dus niet anders dan dat amendement, mocht dat in stand gehouden worden, met kracht ontraden.]] I come to my final point before I get to the individual answer, which is probably faster because I have already done a lot. The Damage Fund Violent Crimes has an interesting background. In 2011, an amendment was tabled by the SP Group together with the VVD Group to include a hardness clause in the Compensation Fund Act for Violent Crimes, with the aim of allowing victims and survivors of victims of very serious road accidents to claim the compensation fund. Mr Janssen of the SP Group then tabled that amendment together with a member of the VVD Group. Their point is that there are road accidents that are so serious that you talk about murder emotionally. This is a situation which, in particular, affects victims and family members as murder, but which cannot legally be classified as murder because of the fact that there is a complete set-up only in very exceptional cases in the event of a road accident. In general, in the event of a traffic accident, there is no need and intent to kill a specific person, but the traffic accident may be so serious that someone is killed. Unfortunately, there are many examples of people who get into the car completely under the influence of alcohol and then drive very fast through the centre of Amsterdam, for example. A writer's son died in a similar case. That feels like a murder-related crime to everyone, but because it is legal death due to guilt, we do not qualify for aid from the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. Then the SP and the VVD tried to solve that. In practice, it appears that this could not be done sufficiently. I leave it in the middle why, but at least that's what happened. I think it's very good that we're legally anchoring that now. The hardness clause remains in place, but it is now legally regulated that these people are eligible for a benefit. In addition, it is clear from conversations with victims that a lot of victims in the short period before them, although they may seem fairly long for three years, are not able to send the receipt of their son's or daughter's funeral to the compensation fund after such an enormous traumatic experience within those three years. I can imagine a great deal of that. The compensation fund has now also taken steps towards lump sums, but it is still necessary to take the step to convert the death of a family member into a financial claim. There are a lot of people who have difficulty with that and who have asked for more time. I am very glad that we can give them that time with this bill. Mrs Kooiman asked whether there was anything else we could do about the justification of judges for the examination of an oral declaration of victim. I have already promised that we will take the motivation idea into account in the investigation, but I will also discuss with the Court of Justice whether, and if so how, judges can see to it. Mr Segers has asked how to prevent escalation in court. I think Mr Recourt has already answered that, but it goes without saying that the judge has his own responsibility for the order at the hearing. The first paragraph of Article 272 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that "The Chairman shall be in charge of the hearing and shall give the necessary orders to do so." That means that the judge has the complete freedom to do whatever he wants with regard to the court hearing. The judge shall determine the order in which the defendant, the witnesses, the experts and the victim shall speak, who shall be given the floor when and when the questioning has ended. If one of the attendees behaves improperly at the hearing, that applies to the defendant, but could also apply well to the victim, it is up to the court to decide whether the person concerned should be ordered not to do so anymore or, in the worst case, to be removed from the courtroom. Moreover, the defendant is subsequently informed of what happened during his removal. It goes without saying that it is also stated in Article 288a, second paragraph, that the court must ensure that the victim is properly treated at the hearing. He should ensure that the various trial participants are given an opportunity to put forward what they consider appropriate in the light of what the judge considers to be a proper order at the hearing. In the government's view, that is a sufficient framework for the courts to deal with this. There are no signs that this would not be enough. I have already said a great deal about preparing for the extension of the right to speak. How do we ensure that victims know what to meet and run into? I've said a lot about that. One thing is certain: the organisations I mentioned, Victim Aid Netherlands, the victim's lawyer, the Public Prosecutor's Office and, ultimately, the judiciary, play an important role in this. In the case of more serious crimes, family detectives also play a very important role in this. For example, they did so in Robert M.'s horrible vice case in Amsterdam. Victim support The Netherlands assists the victim in preparing his statement and will also inform him extensively about the discussion of the punishment and, above all, about the evidence, and its possible consequences. The victim's lawyer, who, as I said earlier, is free of charge for victims of serious crimes, plays an important role in this. He can advise the victim whether or not it is wise to say something about the degree of punishment, the evidence or other aspects. The district attorney has the victim's call to give that information. In doing so, the district attorney can comment on the victim's thoughts on the extent of the penalty in relation to the penalty requirement. This is without prejudice to my saying to Mr Recourt that it can happen to me, and sometimes it even seems sensible to me, that the Public Prosecutor should say something about it at the hearing itself. Because that is ultimately the point, the culmination of what it is about. We take this into account in the evaluation requested by Mrs Berndsen and others. I am going to go to the note on recovery law that Mr Segers asked for. He will not be surprised that the government is in favour of the restoration right as a starting point. The pilots have been there. They're being evaluated now. That evaluation will be taken into account in the memorandum promised to the Chamber. This note will, according to the appointment, be ready for Prince's Day and will be presented to the Chamber. The obligation to state reasons has been asked; MPs Berndsen, Segers and Kooiman spoke about this. That obligation to state reasons was included in the initial legislative proposal, as Mrs Kooiman first recalled. It was deleted because there was no need for it after the removal of the advisory right. Nevertheless, I have promised to inform the Court of Justice in the context of the evaluation of the practice of justification: how is it handled by judges? I think that I have been able to meet the need of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u82	I asked if there was no hidden right of advice. The Council of State has been extremely critical, for example on the obligation to state reasons: a tripartite system would be created. On the basis of the opinion of the Board, it shall be amended. I wonder what the fundamental difference is between the original proposal and what is now de facto when it comes to the justification, the right to speak openly about the level of punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u83	I think it is important that the opinion has not become a legally defined right. There is room for victims to say what they want to say in the terms they choose. It is up to the victims whether they want to say something about the penalty or not. The Chamber is interested in what is then done with it. I have already said that I am absolutely not in favour of making it an obligation to state reasons. In many cases that will not be necessary at all, I estimate. There will probably be a lot of victims and next of kin who do not need any information on the level of punishment. But if it is, I'm curious what happens to it next. It is therefore a good thing that we include this in the evaluation study. I would therefore like to know what the victims think of the way in which they have been taken into account in their words about the degree of punishment. There is a big difference from a formal advisory right with a statement of reasons. Those things, of course, belong together. Now that we no longer have the right to advice, I do not think there is any need for an obligation to state reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u84	The Minister says that it is his impression that many victims need to talk about the measure of punishment as well. Surely it is the way to frustration if there is no obligation to go into it? Judges and prosecutors can ignore it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u85	Then the question is what the basic choice is. I realize that there is a risk of frustration, but there is a risk of frustration in the current situation. And in the current situation, no one knows that there is a risk, because no one can tell or hear it. That is precisely why many judges are already saying: we do not take account of the legal ban, because we see that it is necessary for victims to have that freedom. The Judges shall then give their opinion as they see fit. On the basis of the evaluation requested by Mrs Berndsen, I think it is appropriate to find out how this relates. These are people who are victims of a crime and who are then not allowed to say what they want to say in our free, open society, in which we allow freedom of speech everywhere, except as a victim or a next of kin to a judge, to say: this has hurt me so much, this has touched me so much, that I think you should and should impose it. The judge will then say in many cases: Mr or Madam, I understand very well that you say this, but the law does not allow you to do what you want, because the law says that this crime is subject to the maximum penalty. The judge will explain why he'll do it differently. That makes sense to me. Again, on the basis of the evaluation study, we will see what happens to it. In the present situation we have frustration, of which Mr Segers has undoubtedly heard how deep it goes. As a victim, you are still restricted in your rights, not by the suspect or, in the eyes of many victims, the perpetrator, but by the legal system. I would prefer people to have the freedom to say what they want to say and to see how it is handled in practice later on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u86	The Minister wants to codify with this law what appears to be already happening in a number of courtrooms. At the same time, he does not want to make the justification mandatory. In doing so, he is creating the same inequality for victims. It's from two and one: either you capture everything, including the judge's duty to motivate, or you maintain the right to speak as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u87	I do not follow Mrs Berndsen's reasoning. The government, on the basis of all the information I have given earlier, chooses from scientific research to all the advice of the victim organisations in the Netherlands, for freedom of speech, without any obligation to justify it. I said to Mr Segers just now: if you are obliged to adopt a formal advisory right, it is logical that you should opt for the obligation to state reasons. If you only have an opportunity to say something, knowing what the weight of it is, and in general, victims and relatives of victims know that very well, I see no reason to impose an obligation to state reasons. If they do not know this correctly, they will be further informed about it, see my commitment on this point. If, by the way, I accepted an obligation to state reasons, Mrs Berndsen-Jansen then said: I am voting against the law, because that is not what D66 wants. What I am doing now is to ensure that the D66 Group, weighing up everything, will also vote for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u88	Perhaps Mrs Berndsen can shed her light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u89	The Minister has not yet lost his debate tricks, let me put it this way. With what he's saying, he's turning things around, of course. If you say on the one hand that you're going to codify it because some judges are actually already outside the law and the law should be adapted to it and on the other hand you say with dry eyes that you're not going to impose the obligation to state reasons, then surely the same arbitrariness arises? If one judge does and the other doesn't, isn't there just randomness? One victim will then receive a justification from the judge as to why there is a deviation from his sentence and not from the other victim. Then there's arbitrariness, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u90	Then there is no arbitrariness, then there is a trade-off. Each individual court will have to make that assessment on the basis of what has been communicated at the hearing. I'm not in favour of an obligation at all. In fact, that is why we want to release the right to speak and not commit it to all kinds of advisory rights. We are certainly doing so in the light of the excellent opinion of the Council of State on this point. The Council of State has said 'you shouldn't want to' and so you have to choose the alternative and that is the right to speak. If you have made that choice, of course you should not say like D66: there must be a duty of motivation. I think that's just something you should leave to the professionalism of the judges and the public prosecutors. In this context, Mrs Berndsen is right to say that you need to know how it is handled. I have therefore promised that this will be included in Mrs Berndsen's happy assessment in five years' time. It would be very good if in five years' time the group of Mrs Berndsen or herself, given the research data, could see what its position is. It would be nice if she would support this bill in the meantime. We have been asked by Mrs Berndsen whether the penalty should be a standard element in the victim's interview with the prosecutor. That is how I understood Mrs Berndsen's question. I can reassure Mrs Berndsen about the measure of punishment. If there is a risk that the victim's expectations will differ from what is legally required or can be imposed, for example in the case of road accidents, this will certainly be discussed in that discussion. It is intended that this will happen, but even if it does not, it is good that, thanks to the freedom of speech, the Public Prosecutor, albeit at the hearing, will have the opportunity to respond to it. I think it would be wise for the penalty to be part of the victim's interview. I will therefore bring that to the attention of the Public Prosecutor. In view of Mr Segers' comment, it seems to me that it is a good thing that the Public Prosecutor should indicate in advance that it also seems logical to me to do so whether or not he can do something with that punishment, the idea of punishment or the need for punishment of the victim or the next of kin. Mrs Berndsen, like Mr Van Helvert, has asked whether it is a good idea to put forward the proposal for a Damage Fund for Violent Crimes separately. That was technically possible. I must honestly say that I was not in this position at the time and therefore I do not know exactly what the considerations were. Since both subjects are pregnant in the coalition agreement and both subjects improve the position of victims and the families of victims, I think it is right that we should discuss it in one block. This is really about how we can ensure that the situation of victims and survivors is improved in a structural way. That is why I consider that combination to be appropriate. I explained Mrs Berndsen's question on legal aid. That brings me to Mr Recourt's questions. He pointed out that in his experience too, victims and survivors of the disease know very well what to expect and what not to expect from the judge and the officer. That's a fair point. It is good to see that victims already have a fairly positive opinion on the contribution of the right to speak and on the just outcome of the criminal case, as well as expressing confidence in justice. They also appear to have a general understanding of a different outcome than they would have liked to see themselves. A good example of this is the lady from Alkmaar, who is a lawyer herself. She knew very well what the judge could and could not do, but nevertheless from her position as a victim, now sitting in a wheelchair as a result of the crime, had the need to share her feelings about what it should be, knowing that it could not be, with the judge. I therefore believe that we are making a very sensible decision on this point. Mr Recourt also asked how we deal with Dutch victims who have become victims of a crime abroad. Can they call on the compensation fund? I can only say that I find Mr Recourt's suggestion interesting. The "VVD stands for victims" pamphlet submitted by the VVD group through a former MP in 2012, if I am right, also includes this issue. At that time, Secretary of State Teeven also responded to that proposal. I think it is good that, especially in the light of the forthcoming presidency of the Netherlands to the European Union, in which we have made the rights of victims an important spearhead, I promise Mr Recourt that I will have further research carried out into the desirability and feasibility of his proposal, while at the same time stating that there will probably be a difference between the arrangements within Europe and beyond. But I would suggest that I inform the Chamber further as a result of that investigation. I am looking in the direction of Mr Recourt to see if he can agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u91	I thank the Minister for receiving this so positively. He himself says that this could be relevant to the forthcoming Presidency. That's gonna start next January. Can I therefore understand the fact that the Chamber will be informed before January?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u92	I am now doing what my predecessor did to a complicated question about deadlines. I say I'll take a look around the room. My predecessor then made this hand movement in the direction of support. I'm wondering if we can do this before January 1st. My predecessor did better than I did, but I see now that this must be possible. I therefore believe that I can promise Mr Recourt that I will inform the Chamber of this matter before 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u93	Fine, thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u94	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u95	I have to say, it helps if you've been able to look at your predecessor for a few years. That's how you learn this kind of thing and you see that it brings ideas. Mr Recourt also asked about the summoning of victims to hearings. He's got a point right there. That is not good in all cases. I will pay particular attention to this in the implementation of the Right to Victims Programme. I have already discussed this with the Public Prosecutor's Office. This recognises the problem, it knows that it needs to be improved and does everything about it. I'll keep my finger on the wrist precisely on this point. After all, it is very annoying, as Mr Korver regularly points out, with his organisation LANGZS, the organisation of lawyers for victims, that things are really not going well in a number of areas. Moreover, I am very pleased that Langzs also keeps his finger on the pulse and regularly reminds us of the gaps that remain in implementation. This point therefore receives the necessary attention. Mr Van Helvert has asked whether a legislative amendment is really necessary. I didn't quite understand that, because at the same time he said he thought it was a very good bill. I agree with his final conclusion, namely that it is a good bill. I also agree that a legislative amendment is necessary, for all the reasons I have already explained. I understand, however, Mr Van Helvert's disappointment at the pilot on the two-stage process. In any case, this makes a comparison on the basis of practice very difficult. However, it appeared that the judiciary did not find any case for which the two-stage process envisaged by the Chamber was necessary or desirable. The Secretary of State has already verified this before, following a question I believe the CDA group in Amsterdam, where the pilot was running. There was simply no need from the judiciary and no case could be found where that two-stage process would have added value. Mr Van Helvert also asked where the bill on compensation for damage to health and affection remains. I can inform Mr Van Helvert that the opinion of the Council of State was received this month. The bill can therefore be submitted to the House of Representatives. That means we can talk about that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u96	Last year, in May 2014, Mr Van Toorenburg also asked questions about this to the Minister. The minister's predecessor said that a proposal would come to the Chamber in early 2015. The first quarter of 2015 is already over and the second is almost over, and we still have to receive it. So there is also a need to talk about it. In the meantime, of course, there are parents who suffer from this weak legal position and who are therefore in trouble. Does the Minister agree with me that it would be good if, in the interim period in which we are waiting, we could do something for these parents, even temporarily?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u97	First of all, I would like to give a formal answer on this point, namely that this is far from the subject of the legislative proposal we are discussing. In general, your Chamber has the impression that it is impractical to raise issues during the discussion of a legislative proposal which is not actually regulated by the law at all. I say this to you in a general sense, Mr President. By the way, I understand Mr Van Helvert's sympathetic thinking. However, there are two problems. A bill is already coming to the Chamber in which it is requested. This automatically means that there is no legal basis for an interim payment or transitional arrangement. This requires a legal basis, apart from the fact that in the budget of my department, which has not been approved by his group, there is currently no room for a similar transitional arrangement. But if he can make room for this with proper cover for the next budget, I am the first to look seriously and positively at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr Van Helvert. A follow-up question. You're picking up the glove, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u99	First of all, of course, I apologise for the fact that, as a relatively new Member of Parliament, I have not quite got my head straight and raised this issue. But I thought that the role of the victim was central to this debate and that we could also take this part with us. I am a little disappointed by the Minister's response to the substance. I would like to ask a follow-up question. The Minister is hiding behind only small rules. It is not about the amounts that can be found in the budget. The Minister could talk to the Chamber about this as well. If you look at the 100% support for the victims and the temporary nature of what is at stake, I cannot imagine that the Minister of Justice, of all people, will find no room to anticipate what we are going to do to meet the parents. In that sense, I am throwing back the challenge: does the Minister see opportunities there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u100	First of all, let me say to Mr Van Helvert that he has the complete freedom to talk to me about everything he wants. For the record, there is no obstacle to that and it is not appropriate for me, as a minister, to put any obstacle in whatever the Members of Parliament wish to say. All I have said is that it is not always practical, and I say it very carefully when dealing with a legislative proposal that goes far beyond that. I understand Mr Van Helvert's suggestion. I think it is good to respond carefully to his points. I will look into it more closely and then send a brief letter to the Chamber, in which I will address this subject in practical terms as well as in terms of content and financial terms. I hope I have served Mr Van Helvert with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u101	Clear. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr Van Helvert also asked whether, if this bill has been adopted, the discussion that the prosecutor is having with the victim is still talking about the level of punishment. My starting point is that the sentence always belongs in the D.A.'s conversation. If the victim does not want to talk about this in court, which is the case for many victims, the prosecutor must always know what the victim thinks is desirable, so that he can take this into account or explain why that wish can or will be realised. Even if the victim is talking about the level of punishment, I believe that the issue should be addressed in the discussion with the Public Prosecutor, because this fits in with the role of the Public Prosecutor. As I promised, I'll talk to the state's attorney's office about that, too. Mr Van Helvert has also asked whether I can guarantee that the various ways in which judges deal with the law will end. That is a fair question, because one of the reasons behind this bill is precisely that, on the basis of progressive insight, judges no longer wanted to implement the legal limitation previously imposed because of the importance of victims and their families. This also means that I cannot commit or guarantee that it will always be so, although everyone understands that judges in particular should also enforce the law. I trust that they will take this aspect into account in the evaluation carried out on the basis of the Berndsen-Jansen and Others amendment. will take place. Mr Van Helvert also asked whether I share the view that before the sitting there is already clarity as to the possible swearing-in of the victim as a witness, and that this can play a role. As far as the government is concerned, it is clear that no matter what happens, the victim must be able to speak freely. If the victim does not want to talk about the degree of punishment or does not make any statements about the evidence, there will of course be no swearing-in as a witness. The starting point is therefore that the victim is given the freedom to speak. Mr Van Helvert also asked about victims who are not eligible for a victim interview. It is clear that victims of more serious crimes are in most cases eligible for the interview. As a minister, I also think it is desirable that such discussions should always take place in difficult cases, and I say this in the direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. When people use the right to speak, this is often also the case in the same serious crimes that we are talking about today. The policy of the Public Prosecutor is therefore that victims always get a victim call in such cases. Moreover, this is not an obligation, but I would like to say once again that as a minister I think it is desirable that this should happen. I'll take that with me in the conversations with the D.A.'s office, which I have many times. I have already answered Mrs Helder's questions about the obligation to appear. Mrs Helder also asked what impact the expansion of the Damage Fund could have on its financing. On the basis of this bill, we have looked at the size of this particular group of relatives. We have therefore also looked at the financial consequences of extending the scope of this law. A number of scenarios have been taken into account. Based on the mid-scenario, researchers estimate that the number of cases of debt-related deaths is around 190 per year and that the number of cases of debt-related deaths outside traffic is around 30 per year. The latter is, moreover, Article 307 of the Code of Criminal Law, specifically for Mrs Helder, who is well aware of this and who considers it important that I say this. Not all cases will, moreover, be called upon because, for example, insurance compensates for the damage suffered. The mid-scenario assumes about 50 to 100 cases per year. It is expected that this can be foreseen by the current budgets of the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. It goes without saying that the financing of the compensation fund will have to be revised if it is to go beyond the budget at any time, with all the challenges involved. Mr Van Oosten has once again called for attention to be paid to ensuring that the victim is properly treated during the session. In the first instance, I have already said that the judge has that responsibility, that the law also proposes a framework and that it is up to the judge to ensure that the order is maintained in his courtroom. I would point out to Mr van Oosten that good information to the victim is essential. That goes without saying. I have also said that this is the government's starting point and that we will see to it. In doing so, I have answered the questions of the Chamber. I have also indicated that I am judging the amended amendment by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and others. on the assessment obligation with a positive fundamental note to the Chamber. If the amendment to item No. 9 isn't withdrawn, I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u103	According to me, there is a need for a second term. I give the floor to Mrs Kooiman. Since so much has already been exchanged, we can in principle confine ourselves to reading motions and expressing thanks for the answer given by the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. It's a legal treatment and that's always done carefully...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u105	Take your time, for sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you. I had already been very economical with my first-term time. As discussed, these are indeed two proposals in this law. It's also about a Damage Fund Violent Crimes. I think it is very careful of the Minister to mention the Janssen/Van der Steur amendment on the extension of the hardness clause. I thought that he had incorporated that very nicely into the law, and I promptly received a text from Mr Janssen who told me that I should thank Mr Van der Steur for finally making the amendment work. I would therefore like to thank him on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr Van Helvert does have a point about why the two proposals were not split up. He is right to say that we might not have had to ask for a transitional period if this proposal had been tabled earlier. I understand. The CDA Group has also addressed this issue. If this point had been cut loose, we could have introduced it earlier and indeed we would not have had this discussion. Why didn't the Ministry choose to cut it up at the time? I had two critical points and I would also like to propose two motions. There have been commitments about the discussion with the Council of Justice, but I do not know when the feedback will take place. For the sake of completeness, I will read out my motion. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion and then I will decide whether to hold or withdraw the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by Radboud University Nijmegen has shown that comprehensive motivation leads to greater understanding of judgments;]] [[noting that a judge may take into account the contribution of a victim when reaching the judgment;]] [[considers that it may be important for a judge to justify why the contribution of a victim has been taken into account;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into discussions with the Council for the purpose of the case-law and to draw the attention of the Court of Justice to the importance that judges can take into account in their statement of reasons the influence of those entitled to speak,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34082-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u107	The reason why I have tabled this motion is mainly because I want to hear back what the Council is going to do about it before the Court of Justice. You can wait three or five years for an evaluation, but for our group that is a little too long. I also drew attention to and asked critical questions about the right to speak at TBs sessions. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that victims and survivors have indicated that they need to have a right to speak at TBs sessions;]] [[noting that the Right of Victims Implementation Programme investigates the possibilities of organising an interview between the Public Prosecutor and Victim prior to the renewal session;]] [[calls on the Government to also examine the possibilities of extending the right to speak to TBs and the possibilities of better involving victims and relatives in and informing about TBs sessions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34082-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u108	This is an important day for victims. I welcome this law, and I want to end the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion, but I did ask a lot of critical questions. It is therefore important to reflect somewhat on this. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answers to the questions put. It's been a glowing argument. We share the importance of standing up for victims, marking their position, standing around them and giving them a place, including in criminal proceedings. When the first draft of the bill was submitted, the Council of State was very critical: victim, suspect and public prosecutor are expected to face each other more strongly, which could lead to escalation and brutalisation of the criminal proceedings. Those were very strong words. After what was lying and what is now ahead, the question is whether the distance is indeed sufficient to remove the concern that was raised very emphatically at that time. I'm gonna have to let that work on me in peace. I heard the minister right. The D66 and the Christian Union amendments are still there, with which we point out: there really is our concern about possible frustrations because of the difference between the punishment that victims like to see imposed and the punishment that is ultimately imposed. In any case, we can agree on the importance of information. The Minister explained and underlined this in detail. I'm underlining that one more time. I also underline what Mr Kooiman said, namely that we cannot wait five years to find out after those five years that the information is inadequate and does not work. How can we ensure that information is properly provided? After the glowing words of the Minister, I did not want to table an obligatory motion because I heard what he said about it. I am very happy to hear how he gradually keeps his finger on that process, gives victims the place they deserve and prevents frustrations that we all want to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. However, I do think that the Minister has shopped rather selectively in my arguments. He's picking out the things he's full of fire against. I had raised many more reservations, which the Minister unfortunately did not address. With Mr Segers, I say that, of course, D66 does not want to lose sight of the victim's interests, but that our arguments are based on our concerns about the victim. I note that, on the basis of research, in 2005 the legislative proposal of my colleague Dittrich was discussed in detail and very carefully. An evaluation was carried out in 2010 which shows that the current right to speak does not involve disappointment among victims. They are positive about the right to speak, the just outcome of the sentence and the trust in police and justice. So much for the investigation. However, the Minister relies very much on assumptions. He talks about inequality in the various courts with regard to the performance of the right to speak. The Minister believes that this inequality should be eliminated. At the same time, he wrote in the note following the report that no figures are known to him on the exact extent of inequality. So this too is based on assumptions. In short, the Minister has not been persuasive to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the proper answer to the questions. I want to start with the damages fund. My proposal to include Dutch people who are victims of a serious crime abroad in the compensation fund has been welcomed by the Minister. I understand he can't say he's gonna do it right away, because first it's gonna have to be figured out if it's gonna fit into the fund's cover. You can also not give all Dutch €100, because it must be there. I'm very positive about it. I heard the Minister say that there is an opportunity within Europe to pay as a fund and to recover the costs from the European sister funds. I have every confidence that this is going to happen and look forward to reporting. That is why I am not tabling a motion on this point. Then I come to the main point of the proposal: the right to speak. I want to say something about victimisation in general. Victimhood makes people passive. They're gonna get hurt. They're inability to act on their own. The right to speak gives victims who wish to do so the opportunity to take back the initiative and direction is particularly important. I imagine this would help to deal with the small or large trauma that someone has suffered. You're taking matters back into your own hands. Later on, we're gonna talk about the right of recovery. This is a very important part of that. I really think it's an important bill. It seems to be taking the majority of the Chamber, and I am very pleased with that. I feel personal satisfaction, because it is an old wish that is fulfilled. Moreover, it is stated in the coalition agreement of VVD and PvdA: I am therefore a satisfied spokesperson. I'm confident I'll wait for the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply and for my compliments on his rhetorical skills. Before you know it, he wipes your point with a nice sentence, like the question about the separation of the two laws. He said he hasn't been here that long and doesn't know exactly, but it's a good thing they've been thrown together because they're both about victims. That is true, but on the other hand of course it remains that one law could have been there long ago if we had not merged them. We could have met a lot of victims by then. I appreciate the rhetoric, but perhaps the Minister can give a substantive answer to this question. When asked why no pilot projects were carried out, the Minister replied that there was no need for this and that he could not find a case suitable for it. I can imagine. The Minister then moved quickly on to the next subject. If you ask in a courtroom who wants to run a pilot project because the House of Representatives has an idea, I can imagine that the first reaction is that it doesn't have to be. Maybe the Minister can explain exactly what happened. In any case, I would like to return to a subject which does not directly affect the law but is on the agenda. Those are victims and parents of victims. I am pleased that the Minister has also addressed this issue. I have two very short points. Firstly, the legislation on compensation for damage to health and affection must be speeded up. I understand that this bill will be coming this way in the course of this year. Why? Parents are in a very vulnerable legal position. Among other things, the Amsterdam vice case has brought that to light painfully. The CDA Group is looking forward to handling that bill. Secondly, the CDA Group wants a solution to be found in the short term, even though it is temporary. The incomprehension and frustration of the parents involved are great, and rightly so, the CDA Group believes. That is why we must quickly come to an arrangement to help them. So we're going to bridge what we're about to settle. It is a run-up to something we all want in this Chamber. The delay so far is considerable. That's extra painful. This gives the Chamber and also the Cabinet a moral obligation to look honestly at what we can do in the meantime. At first, the minister said, "I can't do it." After a brief stimulus through an interruption he said: there will be a letter with possibilities. I think that is a very decent step forward. It would be a good thing if the Chamber supported that with a motion to encourage the Minister to settle that quickly. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parents whose child has been abused are currently unable to join in criminal proceedings as an injured party;]] [[Whereas the government has been preparing a legislative proposal for a year to improve the position of parents but its entry into force is too late for parents who are now left with costs incurred;]] [[Whereas, moreover, the Compensation Fund Violent Crimes Fund compensates parents for only a small part of the damage caused by the abuse of their child;]] [[calls on the Government to find a financial solution for parents who have been proven to pay for the costs incurred and to inform the Court of Justice before the next budget treatment of Security and Justice, until the entry into force of the draft law on compensation for damage to health and affection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34082-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. As regards the obligation to state reasons, the Minister said in the first time that after five years the evaluation will take into account what judges and prosecutors do with what victims and relatives have declared in court, and how this is justified in a judgment. My group does not think that is enough, because my group does not want to know how it is motivated but that it is motivated. That's just one step ahead. I am referring here to what the Federation of Survivors has said to victims of violence. It is in favour of an obligation to state reasons for the fact that victims and relatives want to hear themselves. That is in line with what I said about this in the first term. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the court is not obliged to take account of the statements made by the victims or survivors nor is it obliged to devote in the judgment a recital to the statement made by the victim or the survivors;]] [[Whereas this may lead to incomprehension of, for example, the measurement of penalties and thus to the complete or partial destruction of the effect of the right to speak;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the judge is obliged to include in the judgment a passage which shows that the declaration of the victim or the next of kin has been taken into account without affecting the independence of the judiciary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34082-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u114	I have experience with an obligation to state reasons because as a policy officer I helped to achieve a very old amendment. That was the next obligation to state reasons. I forgot the magic formula, but it was the phrase "the prosecutor" and "claimed by the lawyer." This has given rise to a huge amount of case law: is there a need to respond to this or not? That went quite a few times to the Supreme Court. In the end, that leads to some kind of magic formula by the judge: in this case, taking into account what the victim has said, I am doing this. That's just a standard block in the verdict. So that doesn't yield anything, but it does yield a lot of lawyering. Is that a sensible way? Can we not just look much better at how things are going in practice and take action after five years or earlier if things are not going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u115	That's what I've just explained. That is not enough for my group. I think the danger is somewhat smaller than Mr Recourt's. I am aware that it is a difficult matter, but I do think that there is reason to submit that motion with the request to include a passage in the judgment which shows that account has been taken of what the victim or the next of kin has declared, without wishing to give any form. I can very well imagine that it is a reason or reason to conclave with the Council for the case-law. I do see reason for this, because I fear that otherwise nothing or very little will happen, and that we will have to deal with the pears. It's just then that it's hard to turn the weather around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u116	Mr Recourt, follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u117	The Minister has promised to discuss this with the Justice Council. It is now a question of the obligation on the courts to implement it in some form. In practice, that becomes a block. It doesn't do anything for the victims. I'm afraid I can't convince Mrs Helder, but I still want to give it to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u118	That fear is justified. I think it's gonna pay off for victims. The Federation of Survivors Victims of Violence has not said what that duty of motivation should look like either. It does not need to take form as it applies to the suspect and is laid down in Article 350 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, it must be shown that some account has been taken of what the victim has declared in any form whatsoever. That might be enough. In the explanatory statement we have also read that there are victims who do not need their right to speak and so on. I believe that this has given some guidance to victims, even if it turns out to be a block. Then I come to my second motion. It won't surprise anyone that she's dealing with the obligation to appear. In the event of interruption, I have already indicated: to the extent that victims or relatives consider it desirable. The Minister replied that, as I understand it, that is sympathetic but very likely to delay. As far as my group is concerned, however, this is not the case, because victims and relatives could say in their response that they want to use the right to speak. They could immediately inform the District Attorney that they would like the defendant to be present in court. So I see no delay. My group has been working for a long time to achieve the obligation to appear. That was the reason for the then Secretary of State to write a letter to that effect. So we've come that far. However, that letter dates back to 4 October 2013. In that letter, the Secretary of State writes about "promoting customization in the interests of the victim." He believes that the existing policy in this sense is being developed and concludes the letter as follows: "I will consider proposing mandatory rules if it proves not to meet the specific needs of the victim.' That letter therefore dates back to 4 October 2013, and as far as my group is concerned, it is time to follow up. It would also be a good result for this minister, who, as a Member of Parliament in September 2013, co-signed a motion by the undersigned on the appearance of suspects of serious violence and sexual crimes. Having recalled that, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft law does not impose an obligation on the defendant to appear;]] [[Whereas the presence of the suspect is not decisive for all victims or relatives, but it is particularly unfortunate that they should be told their story in front of an empty chair, even though they can be sworn as witnesses if they use the extensive right to speak;]] [[Considers that, in the event of a crime, a person has to answer to the victim or the next of kin in particular and to society in general and for this reason, a person should be required to attend his or her hearing;]] [[calls on the Government to include an appearance at the hearing in the Code of Criminal Procedure for suspects of serious violence and sexual offences in cases where a victim or surviving spouse has indicated that the presence of the suspect at the hearing is desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34082-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr. Chairman. I was initially a little anxious to step forward, because I was afraid that you, Mr President, would oblige me to table a motion. However, I have seen a number of previous speakers who have not tabled a motion. I wasn't going to. However, I would like to take this opportunity to make a few comments. The VVD is genuinely satisfied and happy with the law as it has been proposed and will be voting next week. With this law, the victim is given the opportunity to say what he wants whenever he wishes. This freedom is very valuable to my group. I think it is equally valuable, therefore, that I welcome the comments the Minister has just made on this matter and that the opportunity for information is given to the victim who so wishes. I think that is sensible and useful. In this way I would like to thank the Minister and his predecessor for their efforts. I look forward to the vote with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u120	Your fear that you would be obliged to table a motion is totally unjustified. Thank you for your contribution. There is another interruption by Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u121	I do not want to let Mr Van Oosten go like this, even though he has not tabled a motion. The VVD likes to stand up for victims and certainly also for the parents of victims. Perhaps Mr Van Oosten can briefly indicate how he is looking at the CDA's call for a bridge for the position of parents of children who have been abused.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u122	In my view, it is important to note that the subject raised by Mr Van Helvert is very sympathetic and that it is very important for the Chamber to pay attention to it with speed and in the form of full legal treatment. I think that is really important. I can't explain why that hasn't happened yet. However, it is a bit formalistic, but I do value the fact that this is not strictly the case. We are talking about Article 51e, as I say, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. What Mr Van Helvert is proposing is not at the moment, no matter how genuinely important I think it is. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate for me to comment now on bridging arrangements and so on. However, I would like to tell him that I attach great importance to the subject of affection damage as such. I therefore take this opportunity to urge the Minister to make progress on this proposal. However, I have just heard this intention reflected in the comments made by the Minister towards Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u123	Is this enough, Mr Van Helvert? I see that this is the case. This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he would appreciate five minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of the House for the compliments they have given me not only to my address but also to my predecessor on the importance of this bill and its content. I assume that this also applies to the careful preparation that has led to the legislative proposal being discussed here less quickly than might have been desirable in the interests of the subject. I have the impression that the D66 Group has not been persuaded of the importance of the legislative proposal. I'm sorry to hear that. I would like to ask the D66 Group to reconsider this, partly in view of the fact that all the victim organisations in the Netherlands are committed to the legislative proposal. They don't do that for nothing. The same applies to lawyers, judges and other victims' policies in the Netherlands. With that science in mind, the fraction of D66 may still be convinced. The Christian Union, which has said that it needs to think again, is kind enough to review the views of the victims' organisations, because all these organisations really do not say that for nothing. I believe that 12 weeks after a marriage one is in honeymoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u125	Six.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u126	Oh, there's only six of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u127	We'll catch you up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u128	A period of 12 weeks shall apply to a minister. I've been at it for 12 weeks, so I'm still getting used to my role. For example, I still have to understand that, after making an explicit commitment, I am then confronted with a motion on that point. There will come a time when, as part of my work programme, I will consider how this relates to the premise that there is no need for a motion at all if the government undertakes anything. Against that background, in the context of what I myself see as the ministerial honeymoon, I will walk along the motions. I shall begin with Mrs Kooiman's motion, the motion in part No. 11. It invites the government to enter into talks with the Council for the case-law...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have promised that I will discuss the case law with the Council, but I have difficulty with the second part of the operative part of the motion. First of all, the words "influence of those entitled to speak" will go too far for many judges. Judges will say that it is up to them to decide what influence spokesmen have. That is why I cannot support the motion. Secondly, it is not for me as a minister to point out something to the Council for Justice. Perhaps Mrs. Kooiman is willing to amend her motion. If she confirms my commitment to discussing with the Council before the Court of Justice the importance of responding to both the oral and written proceedings in court and the importance of reflecting on what has been said by victims, then I could leave motion to the Court's opinion. However, if Mrs Kooiman maintains this particular point, the motion really goes too far and also beyond the legislative proposal. That can't be the intention. In that case, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u129	I think the Minister's argument is correct, so I will amend the operative part of the motion. We will delete the words 'to point out'. The operative part will now read as follows: "calls on the Government to enter into a discussion with the Council for the purpose of the case-law on the importance of judges in their statement of reasons to take account of the influence of those entitled to speak'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mrs Kooiman will have to take a look at the word "influence." Judges will say that the phrase 'taking account of the influence of those entitled to speak' goes too far. Perhaps I could have a little discussion with Mrs Kooiman and perhaps with other Members of the Chamber about a better wording of the motion. I think we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u131	That's always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u132	In her second motion, in part No. 12, asks Mrs Kooiman to investigate the possibilities of extending the right to speak to TBs and the possibilities of better involving victims and relatives in and informing about TBs sessions. One thing is equally important: TBs hearings are there to check whether the suspect or treated still needs to be treated. The central point in that session is therefore the one that has been discussed. The government promised in the past that two things would happen. The one thing is that the D.A. is talking to victims about their wishes. I explained that to Mrs Kooiman. In addition, a victim investigation is also being carried out into the wishes of the victims. I can send a letter to the Chamber to get that straight: how exactly is that going? The motion itself, however, goes too far on that point. I'm gonna have to dissuade them. But perhaps Mrs Kooiman is prepared to withdraw the motion now that I have promised to repeat in a letter to the Chamber what is a policy on this point and how the rights and wishes of victims are taken into account, precisely in the extension discussion at TBs. That has been promised to the Chamber much earlier by my predecessor. I find it a little crazy to answer a new motion with a new commitment, but I would like to make that commitment. My predecessor's promise is there. I would like to inform Mrs Kooiman and the other members of the Chamber about the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u133	I would also like to hear when that letter can be sent to the Chamber. The Minister says this motion goes too far, but this is exactly what I want. I have put the motion rather carefully and carefully. Then it's no different for me than for me to keep her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mrs Kooiman can do that; that is obviously up to her. I'll say I'm willing to send that letter. I will do the same if the motion is not adopted. Then I'll still send the letter, but I maintain my advice to the motion to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u135	And the deadline for the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u136	I think it's a good thing I gave the letter to you shortly after the summer recess...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u137	September.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u138	... given the fact that we only have a very short time until the summer recess. I come to the motion by Mr Van Helvert of the CDA, co-signed by his colleague Mr Oskam, in respect of item No. 13. In fact, I have already answered this question, including in our debate on the interruptions. The motion calls for a financial solution, but the proposers do not provide cover for the problem. In addition, there is no basis for a financial solution. I have promised Mr Van Helvert that I will send a letter to the Chamber on this subject. I say to him that if this motion is not adopted because I do not advise her, I will still keep the promise. I don't have to do that, because if the motion disappears, I won't have to send another letter. I will, because I promised Mr Van Helvert that. But it should be sufficient that I look at, see and explain exactly what the position is. I will also involve parents' needs. In particular, let us have a quick exchange of views on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u139	I thank the Minister for that commitment, which is very sympathetic. As regards the lack of cover for the motion, I said in advance that in this house and perhaps also in the Ministry, we ourselves are to blame for taking so long. It's a very difficult situation for those parents. We are very much in favour of this. We have to be inventive. I also heard a proposal from the Labour Party to allow people who suffer damage abroad to make use of the compensation fund. Its coverage is underexhaustible. That's also creative and inventive. In those kinds of directions, you might think. I would like to give this to the Minister for the moment, perhaps to take it into account in his opinion, and to my colleagues for next Tuesday's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u140	For the record, I have promised Mr Recourt that I will look at the possibilities, including the difference between the European situation and the external situation. That does not mean that I can already finance this from the under-exhaustment of the compensation fund, as far as it is concerned. I did not say that, and that is not what Mr Recourt asked. Mr Recourt asks me to look at the situation. I expect and know that there is a debate in Europe on the harmonisation of victim rights. That means that's probably an easier step. I am going to look at what is possible abroad, but I have not made any commitment to funding, for the simple reason that I cannot do so in the direction of Mr Recourt, nor in the direction of Mr Van Helvert. That is why I must discourage the motion, but without having to do so, I maintain the promise that I will inform Mr Van Helvert by letter, because of the sympathy for the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u141	Agreed. Then we've gotten to the motion in part no. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u142	That motion is in line with, but goes a little further than what Mrs Helder has said about this. Mrs Helder's thinking is clear. I have also said that I am not in favour of imposing an obligation to state reasons. I understand very well that she says: 'without compromising the independence of the judiciary'. But that is perhaps a bit what Mrs Helder is trying to do if she read the operative part of her own motion again. I have promised that without any motion I will have a discussion with the Justice Council. Nor do I need Mrs Kooiman's motion. If that motion is passed, I will still do so. But even if that motion is not adopted because I have explicitly promised that I will have the discussion with the Council of Justice, I am still going to do so. Mrs Helder has to deal with that too. That's why I'm dissuading her motion. Then I shall come to the final motion on part No. 15 by Mrs Helder. I have said that for a number of reasons I am not in favour of an obligation to appear. I think it is very important for the prosecutor and the judge to have the possibility of giving the judge the freedom to make that choice if the victim likes it and that is also mentioned. I think that's very important. That choice is not given to the judge by Mrs Helder. There is then an obligation to appear: if the victim thinks that the suspect should appear, he must appear as well. I think that's a restriction on the freedom of judges. I cannot agree to that, and for that reason I must discourage the motion. Moreover, I am prepared, as I have already said, to check with the Public Prosecutor's Office how the policy of asking victims if they appreciate it and what happens to judges is going to work. That won't be easy, by the way. I think I really need an investigation, but I'm willing to do that. That will certainly not be there before the summer recess, but probably sometime, certainly not soon, after that. I am therefore prepared to do so, provided, of course, that Mrs Helder withdraws her motion at least. Otherwise, of course, I won't do it. No, that's not true; I'm doing it anyway. But I would appreciate it if Mrs Helder would withdraw her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u143	I think Mrs Berndsen would like to interrupt the motion on item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u144	Just now, in an interrupting debate, the Minister said to me that he absolutely does not want judges to be obliged to motivate, but he is now discussing it with the Council for Justice. I wonder what he's gonna talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u145	I think I have been very clear about the fact that I can imagine myself well, as I have said in response to Mr Recourt's remark that judges in the freedom they have are doing something about the communication. I also said that I would think it wise if judges and prosecutors did that. I have promised that I will have that discussion with the Council of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This means, once again, that I am not in favour of motivating obligations, nor of issuing obligations. However, I am in favour of submitting the subject matter and the importance attached to it by the Court of Justice, as underlined by several spokesmen, to the Council for Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u146	I think it's a little weird. The minister doesn't want it, but he says he's gonna discuss it. With what intent and attitude is he going to discuss it? Is he going to say: I do not really think it should be compulsory; there are two motions that I have not recommended, but I would like to convey the feeling of the Chamber? That way, we'll keep each other pretty busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u147	I would almost be inclined to say, Mrs Berndsen, if you are so anxious to know, you will join us. You're welcome. I speak with the Council of Justice on a regular basis, almost daily. I will then point out one of the agreements in which I raise this issue. If Mrs Berndsen would like to know exactly how that is going, I would like to invite her to do so. But I'm gonna do exactly what I promised here. No more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u148	Mr Van Oosten wishes to place another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr President, I am not getting an answer. I asked what intention the Minister intends to sit there. Is he gonna sit there on his own intrinsic motivation, saying here he doesn't have one? Or is he gonna sit there with a message from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u150	I find it a little difficult when Mrs Berndsen asks what intention I am going to sit there with. On several occasions in the debate, in an exchange with Mr Recourt, in a discussion with Mrs Kooiman, in a discussion with Mrs Helder, I indicated exactly what I am going to do. If Mrs Berndsen says that it is all not clear to her, then I really refer to the Acts. It says very clearly how I am going to be in it and how I am going to speak there and what points I am going to put forward there. That's how I'll do it. I have made very clear commitments which I will also honour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u151	As well as the offer to join...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u152	Certainly, Mrs Berndsen is very welcome to enter into a discussion with the Council for Justice. It would be a good thing for me to do so before the vote...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u153	You are not supposed to explain all this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u154	I do not need the Minister to sit down with the Justice Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u155	That's very good. It would be a good thing for Mrs Berndsen to enter into this discussion before the vote on this bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u156	I do not think that we should discuss this now. I give Mr Van Oosten the opportunity to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u157	I would like to ask a question about Mrs Helder's motion on item No. 15. The Minister has just promised that he will talk to the Public Prosecutor about appearance, about the presence of suspects, and that he will at a good time put that back to the Chamber. Isn't that related to this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u158	I have promised this in response to a previous interruption by Mr Van Oosten. I have linked Mrs Helder's need to this point. I didn't know there was going to be a motion at the time. I understand the importance of appearances. Mr Van Oosten made that clear in Parliamentary questions in relation to the verdict. Together with Mrs Helder, he has also raised this issue with regard to the moment of the right to speak. I have said what the current policy is, and I have promised that I will talk to the Public Prosecutor and inform the Chamber of how the current policy is being implemented. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mrs Berndsen to discuss the matter with the Court of Justice before the votes. Then the council can tell her how he looks at the right to speak. I would like to thank those Members of the Chamber who have voted in favour of this proposal by a large majority or who will think about it with a positive attitude. In the interests of victims and relatives, I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u159	I'll come back to my motion on part No. 13. The Minister agreed to send a note. Is there a deadline for that? If it is there before the vote, we may be able to hold the motion. It's not about the bill, it's about standing up for parents in the interim.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u160	I promised to inform Mr Van Helvert in detail. If Mr Van Helvert can live with a short note, I will do my utmost to ensure that it is before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u161	Does that mean that Mr Van Helvert is now holding his motion? Or will he let you know after the note is received?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u162	I'd almost say I'm holding the motion. Earlier, I understand that's impossible, so I just want to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u163	At the request of Mr Van Helvert, I propose his motion (34082, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-7.u164	We will vote on the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal next Tuesday. I would like to thank you all for your input, your interest and your support, and to wish you a pleasant conclusion to a working day that is hopefully joyful. I wish the Minister a pleasant continuation of that.
