ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	I can see the minister at the microphone. He's ready to give his first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think it is right that I should make a number of comments on the issue of refugees and the situation in the Netherlands and then on cooperation on this issue in Europe and cooperation with the partners on the fringes of Europe. I am going to pass on the questions that have been put in the Chamber. I will talk in particular about the agreements within last Monday's coalition, which we are now working on. Then, if the President so permits, Secretary of State Dijkhoff will continue to discuss the reception arrangements with the Chamber and Minister Asscher of Social Affairs will continue to address all questions relating to integration. I don't see anyone objecting to this. Yes, for a moment I thought Mr. Pechtold looked at me with a look of "we're not gonna do that" but I misinterpreted him. I will continue along the line that has just been outlined. I shall begin with a number of comments that have been made on the domestic political situation and how we deal with the increased influx. I do so in the light of the fact that we have to establish together that this influx is indeed increasing and has already increased. Since the end of August, early September, the number of people involved is at least considerably higher than in the previous period. That has everything to do with the situation in the region. In Syria many people have been fleeing inland for a long time, but also for some time people have been fleeing from Syria to the countries around Syria, namely Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. One of the triggers of increased migration seems to be the fact that there were food supply problems in the reception camps in those neighbouring countries, especially in Lebanon but also in Turkey. We discussed this matter last time. We then discussed the need to invest extra in the world food programme. The Netherlands and other European countries are also doing this to reduce the immediate need to leave the refugee camps for Europe in the coming months, during the winter. In addition, there is a great deal of pressure on the region. Against this background, we are seeing the numbers increase. The question has been asked from several quarters whether we could not have seen this coming. This also applies, of course, to what the international organisations have said. I had the opportunity to have a wide-ranging discussion with the former Prime Minister of Portugal, now High Commissioner for Refugees, at the United Nations General Assembly in New York. I refer further to the IOM. I note that they also did not send out any signals that the amount of asylum influx would be this large. The question can then be asked as to whether we should maintain some kind of spare capacity for this. This seems very difficult to me. If you were to say that you're keeping 20,000 houses empty in case the asylum influx increases, I don't expect there to be support for that. If you were to say that azc's that are no longer needed remain open because you do not know whether the influx of asylum will increase again in the long term, there will be no support for that either. So this is a difficult issue. The COA has always had a buffer capacity. However, it would have been both financially and socially unacceptable to have chosen to keep shelters in reserve when these beds are not used by anyone. It is therefore a difficult issue: how to deal more structurally with the increasing influx of asylum in relation to the capacity issue. In this particular case, the graph of the influx takes the form of a hockey stick from the end of August. There's a nod in that graph and then there's a rapidly rising line. We have not been able to provide this picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	In the first three sentences, the Prime Minister quickly ignored the reception in the region. Is he gonna come back to that separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	Yes, of course, when I come to speak about Europe, I come to the region in detail. I start with the Netherlands, because there was Friday consultation with provinces and municipalities and last Monday in the coalition. This is also the focus of today's debate, and that is why I thought it would be a good idea to start with that. The scarcity of the housing market and the increased pressure on it, but also due to the scarcity of reception capacity for the short term, make it inevitable that we are working on sober facilities. It is now illusory that people who now have a status simply flow from the asylum-seekers' centre to a rental house. This means that we are working towards semi-permanent housing in public buildings, for example, to solve this problem in the slightly longer term. This also includes an adapted assistance arrangement providing a number of elements in kind. There is still something in between, namely the municipal self-care arrangements that we now need for the short term in order to reduce the pressure on the COA. We are talking about some 10,000 places that we want to realize quickly. This also applies to licence holders. I say that they receive the same weekly money as a resident of an azc, i.e. €45 food money and €12 for personal care. The idea is that this could take about six months. It may be extended, but it is in principle for six months because a municipality should then be able to provide that shelter. We know that it is difficult, so in the meantime we are working on the semi-permanent facilities which also show assistance. This means that there are three steps for a status holder. The first is: undesirable in the azc, because it holds a place that is intended for an asylum seeker who does not yet have a status. Then the most logical route would be: from the asylum seekers centre to a municipal self-care arrangement. This means that the person is staying outside the azc, but is still subject to the financial regime of the azc in the sense that the weekly allowance corresponds to that of a resident of an azc. Health care schemes are also applicable. The municipality gets €100 per person per week. That amount is intended to pay rent, maintenance and equipment. After that, the idea is that they flow into semi-permanent facilities. We still have to look at it all in detail and it will also have to be customised, but it may be that several people are going to use one residential facility. Then elements such as the cost-sharing standard come into view. In addition, the municipality may decide to provide the health insurance scheme in kind. It seems from that postulate that there is no need to pay rent or care allowance. Mr Samsom and Mr Zijlstra reported that as well. That's phase three. The status holder thus stays in the azc with a status "unwelcome," then goes to an intermediate supply via the municipal self-care arrangements and flows to semi-permanent shelters after six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Prime Minister says a lot of things. Let's get one thing by the head. He says there's not enough room for housing. We're gonna need some real estate soon. They could be semi-permanent homes or whatever you call them. There is simply a serious shortage of accommodation, not only for status holders who are now in an asylum-seekers' centre, but also for many people who have been on the waiting list for a long time. 10,000 homes don't solve that problem. Is the Prime Minister prepared to agree with the Chamber on stopping the sale of social housing? Now that happens with more than 10,000 homes. If you stop that, you'll have one less problem. Will the Prime Minister also ensure that corporations are given the space to invest? That could also give a huge relief. And is he prepared to raise that 10,000 to at least 100,000, as suggested by the Labour Party? That way you can really fix something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Assistance in kind, the freeing up of charges for e.g. rent surcharges, the saving of assistance from the cost sharing standard, which affects directly to the municipality and the charging of a rental amount, create opportunities for the municipality to consider together with corporations how to invest in order to arrive at this semi-permanent housing. This Friday there will be consultation with the corporations. Colleagues Dijkhoff and Blok then talk to the corporations to bring these things together. I think that is wise, because in that context you can see these issues well and ensure a good investment climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	The Prime Minister's got a lot on his mind. There is a huge housing shortage, especially in social housing. There are a number of reasons for this. One is that more than 10,000 rentals are sold. A second reason is that housing corporations have to pay the annual rental tax of 1.75 billion, which is a huge attack on their investment capacity. There are still several reasons, but the fact is that there are huge housing shortages. Not only to house status holders, many municipalities are already in trouble, but also to solve the huge waiting lists for people who want a social home. If we are going to try to solve the problems in practical terms, the Prime Minister must agree with me that we must get everything out of the closet. I therefore ask you once again: is the Prime Minister prepared to argue that the sale of social housing should be stopped and that the corporations should be given more room to invest by converting all or part of the landlord's tax into an investment obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	It is my belief that the speed with which you can achieve semi-permanent housing is rapidly decreasing, if you call into question all the arrangements that have been made in the rental market over the past year. I realize this is a paradox. However, it will lead to a lot of navel stares and coverage problems, both in government and in corporations. I think this is unwise. In my view, we should now use the atmosphere that has arisen and the sense of urgency in municipalities, provinces and corporations to ensure that maximum use is made of the possibilities, especially now that we also have some financial resources available from the municipalities to invest. These are apartments that are also open to people who are on the waiting list for a social rental house; let's be clear about that. They can therefore also benefit from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	If that is the deal, then 10,000 homes are even less than the number of status holders currently in an asylum-seekers' centre, because that is 14,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	It's not 10,000. You're confusing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	The letter states that 10,000 homes are now being built. There is a huge shortage of affordable rental homes, and not only for the status holders whose numbers will only increase in the coming period and the group will only grow, but especially for all those people who are now at home watching this debate and who are waiting seven, eight, nine or ten years for a rental house. All we get from the Prime Minister is we're gonna sell rentals and dug up corporate investment space. So these people are just being abandoned. Why don't you join us? Why don't you take care of it and hang out with us? So not only to build temporary homes, but to give the corporations the space to build, so that all Dutch people on the waiting list finally get a smoother turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Roemer is really confusing two things. On the one hand, we have the municipal self-care arrangements. The ambition is to create up to 10,000 homes, so that the first pressure on asylum seekers' centres and the COA can be reduced. When people are in that shelter, the financial arrangements of the COA also apply. You want people to be able to flow through those six months. The reality is that there is not expected to be social housing, but rather semi-permanent housing. We didn't talk about 10,000. The ambition for this is, of course, higher. We don't have any numbers yet because we really want to discuss this with the corporations and the municipalities. We're gonna do that, too. Those 10,000 account for the number of gzzas, not the number of semi-permanent homes through semi-permanent housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	That's obvious. However, corporations remain constrained in their investments by a landlord's fine of 1.75 billion annually. Turn it into an investment obligation. A lot of Dutch people are on a waiting list for seven, eight, nine, ten years. If there are too few properties, you shouldn't sell 10,000 social housing. That's what I'm arguing about, but that's what the Prime Minister's always been about. If you want to help those people on the waiting lists, then building must be done and corporations must be given space to build.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	I understand this plea, but this is a political difference of opinion between the coalition and the Socialist Party that has been visible for a long time. I do not want to repeat the debate on this at length that we have had a few times in the General Reviews. But if you were already willing to think about adjusting the arrangements that have already been chosen, I think that would, paradoxically, lead to a delay rather than an acceleration. For that reason, I am not in favour of this, so apart from financial coverage and all kinds of political issues and policy objectives. I would also like to draw attention to the paradoxical effect that this will lead to delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	The Prime Minister mentions a lot of things that need to be done. When will the Chamber be clear about the content of the proposals and, in particular, their financial implications? I think there are still many questions to ask. This costs a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	We'll do that as soon as we can. By choosing these semi-permanent housing and the social security arrangements that go with it, you also free up a little money for municipalities to invest in housing together with corporations. If the cost sharing standard is applicable and the rental fee is not necessary, then you will free up some money. It is still verse two to what extent the latter can be used, but this gives some extra investment space. This also fits in with the letter sent to the Chamber by Minister Blok voor Wonen and Rijksdienst at the beginning of October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you for these answers. How does this whole proposal deal with the 7,000 reconfirmers? We have a number of people in the asylum-seekers' centres here, but I think there are also many people from outside Europe who will soon be given a status. Are they covered by the same scheme or are they suddenly given a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u18	Anyone who has or gets a status, of course, we want to get out of the asylum seekers' centres of the COA as soon as possible. Again, it is inevitable that we will first work towards this intermediate form of the municipal self-care arrangement. That doesn't mean that people are immediately eligible for a rental. Unfortunately, that just can't happen, regardless of what you think of that now and how desirable you think it is. It's just not gonna work to get people into a rental house. There aren't enough available for that. That's why we're working on an interim facility. Municipalities are very motivated to do so. We talked to them about this on Friday. Although it concerns status holders, it does have its effects on the financial resources available to you at that stage. Those are just the rules. Then these people flow to such a semi-permanent home. As far as we are concerned, this happens as soon as possible after that six months. That's when the assistance comes in. We want to organise them in such a way that we also have money to invest in those homes. In this way we try to address this whole in a just but also sober manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u19	Perhaps later it will be possible to indicate how those 7,000 relocation refugees relate to this. I take it they don't get a self-care arrangement or anything like that. That does not need to be stated now, but I would like to hear it again later. One thing has not become clear to me this morning. There will also be an amendment to the Housing Act to abolish the priority regime. Is there a political agreement that a number of houses should be built before that law enters into force? Or can work on completing the amendment of the Housing Act as soon as possible, and this is the CDA's preference? Then that priority arrangement is gone without a political deal in the background that at least a number of houses should be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u20	No, we're doing everything as fast as we can. We're not gonna keep these things waiting for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u21	I recall that almost two years ago, in a debate in preparation for such a Council, I asked the Prime Minister what we were doing with the refugees. Then he said it wasn't on the agenda and the cabinet would keep an eye on it. Today's question is, of course, whether we were well prepared. I also went through it with colleagues: last year we were told big numbers from the cabinet. I'll give you the number of 65,000. Now the system is wall-locked the moment we reach half that number. Does the Prime Minister think he was well prepared with the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u22	I think we did the best we could. The numbers mentioned then had to do with the influx of Eritreans. Secretary of State Teeven then extrapolated on that. In my view, Mr Zijlstra has just pointed this out in an interruption by Mr Pechtold. Eventually, we managed to reset that inflow, so that those numbers didn't materialize. Now, however, we see the impact of a conflict in another part of the region, namely in the Middle East, in Syria. I just outlined some of the effects of this and some of the causes of this increased migration. Of course, the conflict has been going on for a long time, but there are a number of triggers in it which are now increasing this migration. I just outlined it. I also said that the inflow rates were up in July and August, but there's really a nod, a hockey stick up, starting at the end of August. I really can't make it prettier. In addition, I have drawn attention to the following. If you want to reserve homes for emergencies, I think it's politically illusory to leave 10,000 homes empty for that standard. We also don't leave azc locations empty in case they turn out to be necessary. I think we should be very real about that. That's politically impossible to chef.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u23	Can the Prime Minister explain to me the difference in problem between catching 65,000 Eritreans and as many Syrians?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u24	The difference is that we managed to stem the influx of Eritreans. That influx was May last year. I remember a number of times when we talked to the most concerned rulers about this. The Minister for Social Affairs, the Secretary of State and myself have been on top of it in order to examine with each other what measures we should take. At that time, border control and other measures have helped to reduce this influx. In the end, these flows have thus been moved to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u25	So the story is that we were expecting 65,000 Eritreans. Were we prepared for that or not? It's still unclear. Now we are dealing with less than half of Syrians and others and the system is so stuck that we have a problem every night. It's bullshit what the Prime Minister is saying here, isn't it? He probably thinks that if he keeps talking very quietly, everyone will believe what he's saying. Last year, the cabinet was talking about 65,000 people. Apparently, the big difference is that they were Eritreans. Now that they are mainly Syrians, the system is already completely confused in October with about 30,000 people. Who's gonna believe this? We were badly prepared. The panic comes largely from that 72-hour shelter, from dragging people from one place to another. That's what makes us feel like we can't handle it. The figures were much higher 10 or 15 years ago. That's when we could handle it. That's the problem, Prime Minister. That has nothing to do with the hassle of searching for a difference between the shelter of Eritreans and Syrians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u26	And to think I have to talk to Mr. Pechtold all night about the Green Draeck... wish me luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u27	I did learn a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u28	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u29	Then I come to the answer to this question. With all due respect, Mr. Pechtold is really wrong. That's what I say in great friendship. Last year there was a very different issue. That had to do with the increasing influx in May. If you extrapolated it, you'd have reached 65,000. Soon it was possible to stop that influx. So we have never come close to such numbers and have not had to take any measures. You can now see that the numbers have increased somewhat since about June, July. However, it is still very manageable. I have already said it a few times in the debate: the nod in the figures will only be really visible from August onwards. We could almost show here the graph we looked at in a ministerial steering committee the other day. From August onwards, you will see a huge increase in the influx. This also translates into very high figures for the month of September.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u30	I look forward to tonight's debate on the king's budget. Let me say that I learned from this debate from the Prime Minister that you treat people who get a home and benefit from the state soberly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u31	There is a bridge here between two debates that are dangerously dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u32	It was an advance on tonight's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u33	I hope to be there tonight, too, so I'm curious. I am now a little surprised by the fact that there is a great deal of fog in the agreements that have been made and the question of how to interpret them. I asked Mr Samsom exactly how I should read the expiry of the priority position for marketing authorisation holders. That is quite a step forward for the Labour Party. He specifically linked it to the fact that accommodation had to be provided first. Now I hear the Prime Minister say to Mr Buma: no, we are going to do it as soon as possible. It can't all be true. In the context of the question of whether we can create a little support for this big issue, not only in the Chamber but also outside, I think it is important that it is completely clear what the cabinet is doing. We need to know about each other so we can go for it with each other if we can wear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u34	I have attended all the discussions in the coalition and I have been allowed to preside over some of them. I believe that the differences of opinion have been served in the first term of the Chamber. For example, it concerns questions like what purpose you have with austerity, whether it is a purpose or an effect and how you look at it. There are differences of opinion; that is true. But on all the kinds of themes we're talking about right now, there aren't any. For people with status who have passed from the asylum centre to the intermediate provision, i.e. self-care arrangements, both parties want to ensure that they can move as quickly as possible to housing that will be semi-permanent, simply because of the shortages. You have to deal with this very pragmatically, and you have to have municipalities doing customised work. It makes perfect sense if four or five single guys with superiors are housed. With a family with children, where there may also be problems in the family, you may do so differently. You want to make customization possible with the municipalities. That's why you need to get rid of that priority position, so you need to do both. The realization of the temporary accommodation facilities follows the self-care arrangements. This is not about building whole houses, but mainly about remodeling and making suitable, for example, vacant government offices. It's not something you realize tomorrow, but it doesn't take years; that can be quite fast. That's why we think you can do both at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u35	However, I note a different explanation than when I asked Mr Samsom a very specific question. I think it is important that we not only know about each other what is going to happen in the elaboration, but also what is the basis of what we agree with each other. I find it annoying when there's fog around it and it's going to be some kind of word game. It seems to me, for the support of the Chamber and beyond, bad to deal with such a subject in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u36	I believe that Mr Samsom has said the same thing I heard him say in the talks in the coalition, namely that he can live with it very much if there are more houses. That's what we're gonna do. But if homes are available to people on the waiting list, you have to realize at the same time that you also have to solve the problem of the people who have to flow through the interim provision of the care arrangement. So you also have to make a sensible weighting for that. But you have to want to get rid of the right of priority, so municipalities can actually apply customization. I think this is the strength of this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u37	It is, of course, a question of misery if I am going to try to clarify it here, but I am doing it because Mr Slob is so committed to clarity. I understand that, but Mr Slob has left this question behind. Let me try to explain again what I just said. I referred to the motion of the VVD. It states that priority status should be removed, taking into account the need to continue to guarantee flow, because if it gets stuck somewhere else, it is not going well. So the timing seems pretty obvious to me. The bill's coming this way. That always takes a while, but it's okay to start right away. At the same time, starting tomorrow, as far as I am concerned, from yesterday onwards, I am looking at the Secretary of State for the construction of new homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u38	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u39	So we'll do both at the same time. Then one doesn't compromise the other. I said at the time that it is not a matter of time, because you can do both at the same time to make sure that one does not get in the way of another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u40	If the Prime Minister agrees, the question was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u41	Yes, 100%, I can tell Mr Samsom through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u42	Then let's get back to the first term. I have not yet read the shorthand report, but Mr Samsom said very clearly at the time: then there will be those homes, then there will be no need for them. That's really different from what he's saying here. He's about his own words. If this party wants to do so, that is her choice, but if she chooses to follow the VVD in this to do so, then I think she should just say so. It should not then become a game of words on a rather crucial part of these plans when it comes to the impact on housing, because then I will also hesitate about the words that have been spoken here that the foundations of our foreign policy are still in place and that we will stick to international agreements on refugee treaties and so on. If that's the way it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u43	I didn't hear any further questions. If the Chamber is going to look for differences between the Labour Party and the VVD, then I'd like to give you a hand, because there are a lot of them. However, in the context of this particular issue and the coalition agreements, it is precisely as far as austerity is concerned in the first term of the Chamber. There is a difference of opinion about the purpose of the policy but not about the measures. That's the way it is in a coalition. There will be more times when we come to common action from different policy perspectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u44	The CDA wants to know what it's doing now. Mr Samsom is now coming forward with a very clear message: the path of the law may be used. He clearly does not say: that law must be dealt with as soon as possible. And it needs to be dealt with as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yeah, that's what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u46	No, that's the point. The Prime Minister and Mr Samsom can try to discuss the same thing, but Mr Samsom clearly states that we need to build first, but the point is that this is not going so fast. There is no reason why people who are already on a waiting list in the Netherlands should not be given the same opportunity as asylum seekers. So that change of law has to come. The CDA's willing to cooperate, but they're willing to cooperate with something we can support. You can have that law done in a week. It's a word that needs to be out of that law. To the Chamber, the Council of State, deal with and introduce and so do not gradually deploy that route and then build it. I just want it to be disconnected, and I want the Prime Minister to say so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u47	It's two tracks that aren't linked, but both are done with great urgency. On the one hand, the approximation of the law. On the other hand, work very quickly now to realize those semi-permanent housing facilities in, for example, vacant offices or other real estate and possibly also demountable construction. We can do that soon. So we're not talking about bounty-A housing here, like we developed in the 1980s, where you first needed a plan decision. Since Melanie Schultz's beautiful legislation it will be a lot simpler, but that took a lot of time. This can all be done very quickly. So both that legislation can quickly, as can working on that semipermanent housing. And you should. It is important in view of the agreements with the municipalities to transfer around 10,000 people to these self-care arrangements. That's basically six months. Then you also want to be able to solve these problems after that six-month period, and there is another pressure on the housing market. But I can see that Mr Buma has already been reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u48	What is the purpose of these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u49	The aim is to ensure that we achieve more housing opportunities for people with urgent needs in the Netherlands as soon as possible. There are people on the waiting list where it is urgent, even from a municipal perspective, to help them get housing. By the way, the current law leaves room for that. It is not the case that asylum seekers always go first. That image doesn't add up. It is true that there is a customization in it. What you really want is that you can make that customization much bigger and wider. I can assure Mr Klaver that there is certainly no ideology behind it in the sense of 'as many houses as possible' or 'the people looking for their own homes first'. It's really meant to be pragmatic so that you get enough places where people can live and to make sure corporations and municipalities can build customised work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u50	This is important. The objective that the Prime Minister is now pointing out is to increase housing, to ensure that there is a flow from the azc's. The key question then is: how many additional places will be created next year for status holders and for asylum seekers? We can have a big debate here about why we were not prepared, about why it went wrong in the Orange, but how do we ensure that we do not face the same problems in 2016? I compliment the Secretary of State; I think it's great how it's managed every night so far to give people a roof over their heads. There was talk of 10,000 additional homes that should be there, but with the influx of these weeks they are full after about three weeks. How many extra spots will there be in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u51	Now Mr Klaver is confusing the same things. I get that, because it's extremely complex. I'll sort it out again exactly. That number of 10,000 concerns the self-care arrangements, the transfer of status holders who are still housed in asylum seekers' centres. That is in principle for six months, because the municipality is strictly formally held to help a status holder to a house. Dijkhoff can say: I'll put them on the sidewalk at City Hall. But of course, that doesn't lead to anything. We all know there's just a shortage of homes. That is why we want to leave the formal rules to the formal rules. We are aware that we must look for unorthodox solutions. First of all, we have this intermediate form of self-care arrangements. We could do that for about six months. In the financial sense, you are still covered by the azc regime. Then one goes to such a semipermanent shelter. The ambition is, of course, to achieve a lot, but we want to talk to the corporations first. It is not the case that we decide that. It really is a joint decision, at least tripartite with municipalities, corporations and cabinet. I'm not going to name numbers for that. We'll talk first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u52	I get it. I get it. It is fine that the Prime Minister will explain it again, but I understand that in the first half of the year there will be a little more "slightly more" space with 10,000 places. The question is, what's next? How many extra semi-permanent spots are going to be built? The Prime Minister speaks of a strong ambition, but cannot name numbers. When are we gonna know about this? I understand you need multiple parties to realize this, I understand the Prime Minister can't promise that he'll build 50,000, 80,000 or 100,000, but what's the ambition? What does the cabinet see as necessary to ensure that we do not face the same acute reception problems next year? How many are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u53	One of the advantages of my first lustrum celebration in this job is that I am even more aware that words have their meaning. If I were to mention numbers here as a commitment or as an objective but not as an obligation to achieve results, they would still have their own lives. With this I do not promote a successful consultation with municipalities and corporations. I really don't do that. I agree with Mr Klaver that we want to tackle not only the problem now, but also that of the coming months and the coming year. We are in complete agreement on that. But he wants to hear me say a number of things, and I say: don't do that, because that doesn't help us find the right solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u54	This is the case in many complex cases: we should not ask too much for that, we should give the Prime Minister room for manoeuvre. The central question is: how much is needed? That information should be shared by the Cabinet with the Chamber. How many extra homes do you need? I'm not asking for ambition, I'm just asking how many extra homes are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u55	It's in the letter sent yesterday. That's exactly what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u56	What's that? The Prime Minister likes to refer to it, but what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u57	It's in the letter you received yesterday. I don't have it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u58	I'm asking the Prime Minister. I probably can't read well, but the Prime Minister's referring to it. Then there's the number. He does this all the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u59	That's what you'll get in second term. I will reread the letter you received yesterday on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u60	Not in the second term, I want it in the first term. I understand that this has to be looked up, but it is important for me to be able to carry out a good second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u61	Don't be so grumpy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u62	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u63	Prime Minister, Mr Klaver has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr President, I am asking for a figure. The Prime Minister is referring to a letter. He doesn't even know what grade it is. Then he says: I will return to it in the second term. I'm trying to point out that I care that I hear this from him in the first term. And then he talks about bickering and he goes on with his story. No, I'm asking a question. And I'd like an answer to that. Is it possible for me to hear that figure from the Prime Minister in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u65	I'm gonna do my best. I responded more to Mr Klaver's somewhat crippled tone. The discussion before that was very pleasant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u66	It's another debate like bed-bath-bath-bread. There is uncertainty and hassle again, then we stand here and we get a letter very shortly in advance that you can go all the way with. We ask through this, that is our job. I would like to say: let's just take a moment, and then we'll hear that number. A two or three-minute break and then we'll hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u67	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr Pechtold, the Prime Minister has said that he will return to it in the second term. After further questions from Mr Klaver, he said he would do it as soon as possible. He also said in the past that he would reply in the second term, but then those answers came in the first period. You want it as soon as possible and the Prime Minister has heard it. It's the most practical thing he's gonna do, the answers are coming as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u70	It's just a pattern. If you ask if we're well prepared, you get a monologue, but you don't get an answer. If Klaver asks about those houses, he gets a monologue, but he doesn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u71	In this case, the Prime Minister has promised an answer. You have expressly asked for it, he has promised it, and I will see to it that it comes as soon as possible. It seems pragmatic to me that we should continue with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u72	This is not necessarily the answer to Mr Klaver's question about the number of houses and the number of places we seek. I insist that it is important to wait for Friday's consultation of the corporations, municipalities and cabinet. The letter from the Secretary of State to the Chamber does mention the numbers related to it. On October 1st, that's the famous 14,000. Those are the people who are now in the COA and should actually continue to flow. That's where the 10,000 places at the self-care arangements are focused. I believe that there were other figures in that letter, which we will mention here in the first term. You will. Mr Slob asked about the resources. I discussed this yesterday in the First Chamber with his colleagues in the political groups and with other parties, and two things are important. With regard to ODA, we stick to the existing agreements. In principle, the first year is paid because it is covered by ODA. We will continue to pay that out of these budgets. This has not so far led to any kind of austerity elsewhere, because the economy is also growing and therefore the ODA budget has more room for manoeuvre. The second point is the question of when the adjustments will be made. Other questions have been asked about this. We intend to come to the Autumn note with further information on what this means in financial terms with regard to the asylum influx, both in 2015 and through to 2016. We are talking about both direct costs and a number of additional costs. This is in line with the commitment I made in the general political considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u73	Do you account for 300,000 asylum seekers for 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u74	I don't have numbers for 2016. In this letter we mentioned the number for 2015, but not yet for 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u75	The group chairman of the largest party says on TV and in this debate that it is possible that we will be able to get 300 000 people this way in a year, that a city the size of Utrecht should be built up. The Prime Minister announces that the figures will be adjusted. This year, the budget was cut back on reception. Many groups have said that this was not sensible. Now someone is asking us that there could be 300,000, and that is quite an attack on the budgets. Do you consider numbers of that size?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u76	Again, I don't have any new updates for 2016, only for 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u77	So that's running away from something that's happening here. The VVD throws a bomb, panic, 300,000, and then the PM says he doesn't have any numbers. Either he says: they are real figures; it can come close to that. We are now at only 10% of what is predicted. So I am asking about the reality of the figure of 300,000. Can the Prime Minister say that? Does he think it's possible for 300,000 people to come this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u78	I am the head of the government, not the scientific bureau that comments on everything that is discussed in the first term. The cabinet has its fixed moments to come up with figures. Yesterday's letter says our update for this year. I repeat, in line with my commitment to the General Political Reviews, that the autumn note informs the Chamber of what this means in financial terms. Yesterday I promised in the First Chamber that we would also, of course, include a number of additional expenditure. At the appropriate moments we will give an update for the coming year. But commenting on everything that has been discussed in the first term is not my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u79	Less than a few minutes ago, the Prime Minister was proud to say that he was able to bring back the number of 65,000 Eritreans announced by his own cabinet for this year with great success. These were figures as predicted by the cabinet, figures on which policy had been pursued. Now we are talking about numbers that are five to ten times higher, put here by a coalition party. Now I ask you for the same system, do you take that into account, do you have a policy? And the Prime Minister says: I don't have to do that, because I don't respond to numbers. Last year, numbers were presented that were far from being reached. This year, numbers are also suggested. I'm asking if that Prime Minister thinks those numbers are possible. Does he believe that next year there will be only five to ten times as many asylum seekers as this year? If so, how does his cabinet prepare itself for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u80	I refer to the previous answer. The cabinet regularly updates the numbers of incoming refugees and asylum seekers to be expected. We did that yesterday for 2015 and at the fixed times this also happens for 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u81	In the motion submitted to the General Political Reviews, it was requested to come by autumn note with an update on the money required. I understand now that the cabinet is waiting all the way to the end. Too bad, 'cause you can do that a little sooner. Do I hear you say that you are going to seek additional resources in money that we have meant in terms of policy for the poorest in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u82	That's just a systematic. The first year of asylum influx is financed by ODA. That's nothing new. I understand that Mr Slob does not agree with that, but that is how we do it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u83	Of course, it's also a choice. If you get a lot of refugees to you, you're gonna need higher amounts of money. It is incredibly important to have proper shelter in the region itself, which is stated in the same motion, and to help the people there to live in the places where they belong. It's gonna take money for that, too. I note that the 110 million that the cabinet had already reserved was a pre-emption of GDP growth from 2020. I wonder where you'll be getting money from in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u84	That addresses the issue of the autumn note. It shows how we deal with the increased influx and what that means in the financial sense. I understood Mr Slob's question and his first comment in such a way that he wanted to question, more fundamentally, the fact that the first year of the asylum seizure is to be borne by ODA. That is the view of the cabinet that we want to leave it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u85	In the motion we have indicated that the current lines of the programme should not be affected. I understand that the cabinet might use that to use the hook of extra money because of bnp growth. I would like to inform the Cabinet that, especially in view of the scale of the problem we are discussing today, it is also important to look around a little more broadly and not to take the financial resources exclusively from there but also to look at other funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u86	I know Mr Slob's view. We do not agree on that. I come to the European dimension and the European Council of tomorrow. The Council is limited to one day. So I will meet you all again on Friday in the Knight's Room at the celebration of 200 years of State General.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u87	I still have an intermediate variant for going from the Netherlands to Europe, namely the boundaries between them. I asked whether the currently very limited mobile controls could be increased at the border with Germany, similar to what Germany itself is doing at the southern borders. That is where transit zones are set up to enable people from the Balkans in particular to be sent back immediately. Is the cabinet prepared to consult with neighbouring countries? I can see a clue to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u88	Secretary of State Dijkhoff discusses this in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u89	Then I have asked my question and I will hear the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u90	So I am not saying that we are going to do that, but I am not saying that we are not going to do that. The Secretary of State is about to point that out. He'll answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u91	That is how we know the cabinet: it is not going to say that it does, nor that it does not. At the end, there's fog up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u92	No, no, Mr Dijkhoff is usually even clearer than I am if possible. I come to the European dimension. I am, of course, doing so against the backdrop of a number of cabinet objectives for European policy. I really think you should say that the pressure is only increasing. We now have the relocation of people who report to Italy and Greece. So this measure looks at the 120,000 to 160,000 people. We believe that this system with fixed keys should really become the system within which you are working in Europe on the distribution of asylum seekers. That is an important element of our Europe policy. This will ultimately prevent asylum shopping in Europe. That's the only way to really prevent it, apart from all kinds of other things you can do. That's crucial. It means that if someone reports to Ter Apel who was scheduled for Lithuania, you can also say: you are there, but Lithuania was the country where we would place you and every country gets its fair share. That's one. We also want the influx of large numbers of asylum seekers to be put in Europe. In addition, we want to destroy the business plan of the smugglers, which now means that they are crossing the Mediterranean. Part two of the cabinet policy is necessary for this. I shall come to that after Mr Roemer has asked his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u93	I would like to have a brief explanation of that first point. Three weeks ago, the Prime Minister and his colleagues agreed on that key. Today, media reports have been published that only a few countries have signed up and have agreed to cooperate. The Netherlands is not in that list. Can the Prime Minister explain what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u94	Part of participating in it is getting those hotspots there. In November, they must be in Greece and in Italy, so that you have a decent intake. Those hotspots haven't been realized yet. To ensure that the intake takes place so that we really know where people come from and whether they have applied properly, we need those hotspots in Italy and in Greece. That's really a condition for that. I only use the terrible term 'hotspot' for a moment, but it is still less serious than the term 'overpressure valve'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u95	I think I get it, but I'm gonna ask you for clarity. So the Prime Minister has made a link. If these hotspots aren't there, is that the first appointment of the Netherlands from three weeks ago or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u96	That deal was already linked to that. Because you can't come to relocation if you don't know who's calling in. So you're really gonna have to do both. The Chamber is familiar with Dutch policy on the medium-term agenda. It has also been confirmed in the conclusions of the Justice Council of 8 October. It was already a Presidency conclusion, but it is now also a Council conclusion. I think that's good news. As is well known, we want to work towards a safe shelter with more perspective in the region, so that people who report to the Netherlands can be returned to that safe region on the basis of the safe third country criterion, in combination with a resolution instrument. In the end, that's the way to make sure you destroy the human smugglers' business model. You are destroying Europe's asylum shopping by creating a permanent redistribution mechanism in Europe for all asylum seekers. Providing shelter in the region with some perspective so that people who report here can be sent back on the basis of the safe third country criterion is the only way to really stop the influx into Europe via the smugglers. I must say that on the second part we are more successful than on the first. The second part has also been accepted as a policy in Europe; the first is for the redistribution of 120,000 to 160,000 people. I'm glad you did. That was, by the way, extremely difficult, because it was a qualified majority decision. So it wasn't heartfelt, far from it. I think that the real awareness that we need to do this will grow in the coming months. We shall make a plea for it on every occasion. Having said that, I come to a number of questions about the European dimension. The establishment of these hotspots is still very difficult, especially in Greece. In Italy, one is now operational, namely in Lampedusa. The plan is to set up a total of six hotspots, but it's all difficult. It is one of the points on which I will draw attention tomorrow at the European Council. I won't do that alone, by the way. Many other countries also want this to be accelerated, because it is very important. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about controlling the borders of the Schengen area on the mainland. We're very committed to that. We also make a big contribution to Frontex. This raises the more fundamental question of whether the monitoring of the common external border is a Community-wide matter. My view is that it is at least a European matter. When Greece does not guard its own borders, I prefer to do it with Dutch and Germans. It just has to happen. We know about the Roman Empire: if you stop guarding the external borders, that's the beginning of the end. Right now, we're not guarding the external borders. That is extremely worrying. I would like to move completely away from the fundamental debate on whether or not there should be a transfer of sovereignty on this dossier. I don't think we have that discussion intergovernmentally. We must be intergovernmentally prepared to make a major contribution to this. So that's what we're committed to. Turkey is indeed on the list of safe countries of origin. It is a Commission proposal. In doing so, it looked at the candidate countries and the potential candidate countries. One important consideration of the Commission is that respect for human rights has already been assessed when these countries were accepted as candidates or potential candidates. I understand, of course, the concerns about Turkey. Of course, we also expressed our sympathy to Turkey for the terrible attack last weekend. The verification of a country's safety for refugees should be carried out on the basis of specific benchmarks. This should be used to assess whether a country is safe for its own nationals or former residents. It looks at the laws and regulations and the way in which they are applied, compliance with human rights conventions and the rule of law. A progress report on Turkey is published every year in the context of accession, which takes all these aspects into account. So we do not object to putting it on this list, but, of course, we follow it very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u97	One of the reasons for raising it is that there is a war in the southeast of Turkey. A colleague from my group was there last week and he saw and experienced it himself. Human rights are being violated massively there. Journalists are kept out of the door. One thing we cannot use is further escalation in that region, which is absolutely at issue in that corner. Is the Prime Minister prepared to discuss the situation more vigorously at the European summit? I am referring to the vigorous discussion of human rights and the freedom of journalists and the promotion of de-escalation. Until then, we should wait to say that it is a safe country, because there is so much wrong in that corner right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u98	Not the latter, because that is what I really think of the Commission, but the first one is. I did the same thing in New York in several conversations with the Turks. We're gonna bet on that in all the gremia. Lilianne Ploumen has just been to the G20 in Istanbul. We are always working on that, but we do not ultimately judge ourselves whether such a country can be included on the list of safe countries. This is, of course, somewhat reassuring that the application for asylum should be dealt with for safe countries of origin and safe third countries. If you find that an individual is not safe in a safe country, that protection will still be given. I realize that this is not a complete reassurance, but rather a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u99	Not really. It seems that we are very behind Turkey when things are going very badly in that corner. What means will the Prime Minister have at the summit tomorrow, together with his colleagues, to increase this pressure, for example, to get the Turkish Government and the PKK back to the negotiating table? It's gonna take a lot more than that. If it escalates there, I don't want to think about the consequences, because a lot is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u100	We will certainly come to talk about Turkey tomorrow. Last week, President Erdogan visited Brussels. My political expectation is that we can take further steps, but that the outcome of the electoral process in Turkey will still be relevant at the beginning of November. The outlines of a common agenda for Europe and Turkey are becoming visible, aimed at ensuring that the approximately 2 million refugees in Turkey can stay there and that, in particular, the Turkish-Greek border will be better monitored. I see real progress on that point. Undoubtedly, the Turks will ask for things back, for example speeding up the whole visa liberalisation process, where for the Netherlands it is essential that we stick to the road map and keep all the conditions in place. Speed up is always possible, but within the agreements made. What this whole deal looks like, if it succeeds in making it, will have to be further worked out in the coming months. There is always talk of human rights and the situation in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u101	If there is talk of 'contours of a deal', then surely it is not possible to agree on the human rights situation and de-escalation in the south-east corner of Turkey? I hope this does happen. I'd like to get a clearer commitment. I cannot imagine that, if these matters remain undiscussed or if they are only discussed without any improvements being agreed, we will come to a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u102	We must operate in this area subtlely and with some sense. We need the Turks very much. I think the subtlety is in the next. Of course you deal with these difficult themes in the conversations. However, it seems illusory to expect that we can move the Turks to shelter more than 2 million refugees on the one hand and change their whole policy towards the south-east corner on the other. I understand that you address those cases, that you discuss them with each other and provide common orientations, but I can't guarantee that those things are part of a deal. The interruptions have already answered many other questions about European policy. As far as the arms embargo is concerned, we are already looking at stricter rules on arms exports to countries involved in conflicts. We are sticking to European rules. Unilateral steps, such as a Dutch embargo, are never effective. Action must always be taken at EU level or, rather, at a wider multilateral level. Like other EU Member States, we always handle and assess licence applications on a case-by-case basis. We are doing this on the basis of the criteria of the European Union, the common position on arms exports. We are also looking at the impact of the goods to be exported on regional stability. That is what we are doing, always in a European context and, if possible, even wider. The question of funding flows has rightly been asked. How can you take it further? We do a lot of that, but it is frustrating that this can only be done with moderation. I felt this frustration in Mr Roemer's remarks when he spoke about this. I believe it is known that ISIS generates revenue mainly locally. We must do everything in our power to cut off access to financial systems and to customers. We do this by preventing ISIS from having access to international financial systems. We do this by preventing ISIS from using economic resources. This has to do with the exploitation of the population, territory and raw materials. We do this by preventing ISIS from receiving funds from abroad. Finally, we do so by preventing ISIS from supporting foreign affiliates. Progress is being made step by step. We actively contribute to the development of measures in the Financial Action Task Force. We are also doing this with national measures, including with regard to ISIS itself and other terrorist organisations, with the associated persons. ISIS is, of course, on the UN terrorist list and thus also on the European list. That is why 37 people and 3 organisations are now on the national terrorist list. Their financial assets are already frozen. The Dutch investigation services, the Public Prosecutor and other interested parties are fully in focus and very active. This is all complementary to what is happening in Europe and in the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u103	I had also asked whether attention could be paid to the fact that the refugee problem is much wider than just a problem for the EU countries. Shouldn't the other European countries also be involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u104	This is precisely the last answer I have here in front of me. Mr Krol asked for a real European summit, so a summit with Norway, Switzerland and, I assume, the Balkan countries. I don't know if we're gonna solve the problem by another top. There's a lot of peaks. Tomorrow there will be a summit for the 28 countries and, in my opinion, it is a good thing that we have it on 11 and 12 November there will be the summit in Malta with the African countries. So there is no shortage of summits. There has also just been a summit in Vienna with the Western Balkans. There are, of course, talks with Turkey at the moment. Frans Timmermans is in his role as First Vice President of the Commission in Ankara today. My view is that we should now focus on activating the results of these summits. If I look, on the one hand, at what we said in April and, on the other hand, at the European Council on 23 September, and, on the other hand, at where we are now in implementation, then I really have to say that not all the agreements will be implemented immediately. The Netherlands tries to do so as neatly as possible. I shall conclude with this commitment tomorrow, also in response to Mr Buma and others who have asked questions on this matter, especially with a view to implementing the previous agreements and insisting that we reach a common agreement with the Turks as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u105	I was able to ask two more questions in my two minutes. The Prime Minister hasn't answered them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u106	Perhaps you could repeat them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u107	The first question concerns Angela Merkel's idiotic and dangerous policy. When will the Prime Minister say anything about that? Even her own party is now in opposition. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The second question concerns my assertion that this policy will not lead to one less asylum seeker. In fact, there will be many more. That's why I like to hear numbers from the Prime Minister. How many asylum seekers can we have here? How many more asylum seekers does he allow? I have still not received any answers to these questions. I've already put them in three debates. I'd like to get an answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u108	For the answer to the first question, I refer briefly to my answer to the question put by Mr Zijlstra during the General Political Reviews on this subject. For the second question, I refer to the government policy and the relative share of the Netherlands in the European asylum issue, also given the redistribution mechanism that has now been agreed. You should be able to limit it, but that requires that this principle of a redistribution mechanism be accepted in Europe. That has not yet been achieved, but we are working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u109	I do not yet get an answer to both questions, but I would have expected that from this Prime Minister. Surely he cannot refer to a debate that took place many weeks ago on my question about Angela Merkel? The situation is completely different now. The influx continues to grow. Mrs Merkel is under attack from her own party. In view of the state of play, is the Prime Minister prepared to address her on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u110	I refer once again to the very comprehensive answer I gave to Mr Zijlstra during the General Political Reviews. If I don't, I'm gonna repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u111	I think it's really ridiculous that I don't get an answer. Mr Zijlstra asked that question weeks ago and a new situation has arisen. I expect an answer, because this is a normal question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u112	Mr Zijlstra looks as if he thinks: what do I have to do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u113	Perhaps you could give a brief summary of what you said then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u114	I will, Mr. Chairman. I understand that helps. I said at the time that it was good practice that members of the European Council do not publicly reflect on each other's actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u115	Thank you. And now for the answer that is awaited with sorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u116	Yesterday's letter made some comments on this matter. At the bottom of page 3 it says that the large number of asylum applications submitted has an impact on the housing mission. On 30 September last, the task of municipalities to house licence holders in the first half of 2016 was set at 20,000; the forecast for the second half is 23,000. That is what we have in mind when we try to reach agreements. I repeat my answer to the question of how many asylum seekers I want to get out of the consultation. I think it is unwise to mention numbers, because I am burdening Friday's discussions with them. These are the figures mentioned in the letter of 30 September. I think I have answered all the questions with all my conscience, but Mr Roemer does not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u117	I have another question on a point on which I believe we are all in agreement, namely improving reception in the region. We now know what the United Nations wants, but they have not received the contribution from everyone. There is a real need for substantial improvements. We've been talking about that for weeks now. I have asked the Prime Minister what has actually happened in recent weeks to improve this. We do not see anything in Lebanon or Turkey. We don't see it yet. What's visibly improving? Otherwise, we're gonna keep putting the horse behind the cart here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u118	The first thing you have to do for that is, of course, "put your money where your mouth is." That's what the Netherlands does. We are putting a great deal of money into this issue, both to alleviate the shortages of the World Food Programme and to provide shelter in the region. I refer, among other things, to the amount of 110 million that has already been mentioned. With that we score in absolute terms in the top six of the world and relatively we are in the top two or three. That's one. If you point one finger, four point to yourself. Well, at least you shouldn't have a stain on your suit. Then there is the question of how to achieve progress in multilateral consultations. I think we can praise the Commission for the hard work it has done to reach agreements with Turkey. That fully supports the Netherlands. I don't think we can draw any conclusions tomorrow. Maybe so, but I don't think so. I expect those conversations to go on for a while. We must also include the elections on 1 November. If we succeed sooner, that would be fantastic. I have no criticism whatsoever of the Commission or anyone else. I think we are working very hard to reach agreements with the Turks. We are also trying to promote this in the UN context. I mentioned my contacts with the High Representative, but also with other relevant organisations, the Foreign Minister, Bert Koenders, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Lilianne Ploumen, and myself have worked hard in New York. Among other things, we had a dinner with all the leading players at the Dutch Residence in New York, graciously hosted by our permanent representative. That's where we were able to put our relative weight on the scale. I say it often: we are not a small country, but we are the largest of the smaller countries. We are also the smallest of the larger countries, so we really need to try to fight above our weight class, also because of the huge financial contribution we make. That's what we're doing. If Mr Roemer asked me whether these efforts by the Netherlands had already led to a concrete improvement, I would reply as follows. I think we should note that we are carefully taking sensible steps for the World Food Programme before the immediate crisis this winter. More in line with the medium-term cabinet position, reception is in the region. Here too, we are taking significant steps towards Turkey. I am still dissatisfied with how far we are with the situation in Lebanon. We're gonna work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u119	I think it's a real story the Prime Minister tells. I hope that it is enough what the Netherlands is doing, but I would particularly like to stress that more needs to be done. Lebanon refuses to set up permanent camps for refugees, because of the country's experience with the large group of Palestinians. The enormous amount of refugees in neighbouring Lebanon leads to terrible scenes of little food, little drinking water and tents that are absolutely not suitable for winter. Can the Prime Minister promise that he will do everything in his power to bring back the positive message that the situation there is winter proof before the winter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yes, as an obligation to do so, but I cannot accept an obligation to achieve results on the conflict between Assad and the opposition, or on the situation in Lebanon. Mr Roemer will understand that. When it comes to the Dutch commitment, there is no doubt. We are very active there. I do not think that any country was more widely represented at the United Nations General Assembly with the king and queen, four prime ministers and three ministers and secretaries of state. That was very much appreciated. We've had talks on a broad front for four or five days. I will continue with that tomorrow, with Bert Koenders, who is in London today, and with Lilianne Ploumen. The three of us are working very hard on it and we will report on it over and over again. You see progress, but not so much through the Dutch contributions. We are trying, above all, to push things in the right direction behind the scenes, without asking for too much credit for it. If you ask me how satisfied I am: we are seeing progress in relations with Turkey, I am not very satisfied with Lebanon and with the hunger in the camps, I think we are currently doing the best we can to make the situation manageable this winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u121	I think that we in Europe can squeeze our hands with Angela Merkel and the way she behaves throughout the process. I was seized when she made it very clear that she felt that Germany should not compete in a race to the bottom, in order to become as unattractive as possible for refugees. Will the Prime Minister repeat this in his own words?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u122	The fact that we remain within all the treaties and legislation already indicates that. A race to the bottom? Even if you were to abolish the assistance and everything in the Netherlands, we still have such a fantastic country that we always retain attraction. That's inevitable. In the end, you will always have to look for a combination of measures. From the current situation, you must ensure that you organise a sober and just shelter. We will. At the same time, we will not really solve the problems until we arrive at a fair distribution across Europe of asylum seekers. That is really necessary to get rid of that asylum shopping in Europe. We must then succeed in stopping this influx by organising reception in the region in such a way that we can send people back. Those are the two things we really need for a structural solution. But I think this cabinet proposal is sober, fair and decent. We are trying to ensure that this is the way to manage things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u123	The Minister of the Interior said this Saturday in Tros Chamberwide that it should be a little more generous. It was said at the time that it is really important for the Netherlands that the European countries do not end up in a race to the bottom and try to be as strict as possible, but that they should try to work together at European level. The Prime Minister states that there is no reason for this, that we are not engaged in a race to the bottom. I would like him to say that the Netherlands is not going to change its policy in any way in order to make us less attractive to refugees. Angela Merkel did, and I thought that was good and very important. The question is whether the Prime Minister also wants to take this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u124	I must now think of the current Vice President of the Council of State, when he was asked when he had stopped hitting his wife. He said the only answer to that could be "never." You are now asking me a similar question about something the cabinet is not after at all. We are looking for a sober and just shelter. I'm not going to comment on all kinds of imaginary scenarios right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u125	This is not an imaginary scenario at all. This is just being discussed in Parliament. This isn't imaginary. How we can ensure that we are less attractive to refugees who want to come here is the subject of social, public and political debate. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to make a statement on that point. That statement may also go the other way, namely that the Prime Minister says that he thinks this is important and that this may be part of the policy and objectives of the Netherlands. If that is not the case, I want to hear from him that the Netherlands will never participate in a race to the bottom and will try to be as unattractive as possible for refugees. I fully agree that they should be distributed fairly across Europe. That's why we're trying to work together. I'd just like the Prime Minister to get involved in that debate. He can say that it does not exist, but this is the public debate. I expect the leader of the Netherlands to take a stand on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u126	I don't recognize that debate. I haven't seen any proposals from parties to run a race to the bottom either. No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u127	I don't know what this Prime Minister did on Saturday...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u128	I was in Woerden then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u129	Compliments for that, excellent. But then the VVD came up with a plan saying that our social security is under pressure, that it's far too attractive for people to come here. In the debate it was exchanged that most refugees come to Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands for a reason, which has to do with the level of provision and that it is important to adjust that level. That the Prime Minister does not answer is fine, because I have been used to that from this Prime Minister for a long time. But how can you say that this is not part of the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u130	I think that is a misrepresentation of the proposals made by one of the two coalition parties. I do not think that this is right, apart from what I think exactly of these proposals. I am here, of course, as Prime Minister of the entire coalition, but I find this unfair to that particular party. Let me be honest with you. I listened very carefully to the first term of the Chamber. I noted that the coalition parties, in particular, always put forward proposals to solve the problems along pragmatic lines. I'm glad there's support for that. This is exactly how the cabinet intends to deal with this: we are looking pragmatically for a solution to this issue, on the basis that we must choose solutions that are both sober and just, also because of the circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u131	I would like to sit down and let this go, but it is now said that the coalition parties are coming up with constructive and pragmatic solutions. I am curious to see where the Prime Minister sees the constructive elements in the plan formulated by the VVD last Saturday. What was the pragmatic solution presented at the time? I didn't want to ask, but now that he's challenging us like this, I'd like to play the ball back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u132	Once again, I believe that both coalition parties are putting forward proposals and trying to bring this debate forward. In my view, the coalition has managed to achieve a common orientation, looking at the real situation we find ourselves in with regard to both housing, social security and services. This comes from the idea that these plans should simply be decent and just and that we will eventually come to sober solutions, because that is inevitable. I think that's decent and that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u133	The Prime Minister actually tells the entire opposition that it does not come up with solutions and that only the coalition offers solutions. At least these parties are pragmatic. Then let me make it very specific. What exactly was so pragmatic and solution-oriented about the plan presented last Saturday? You can, of course, give a tap and then try to hide, but I hope the Prime Minister dares to bite through this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u134	I think it is very strong that large governmental parties always make proposals on such a large issue. Last week it was the Labour Party, this weekend the VVD made a proposal. We sat together on Monday and wondered how you could come up with a further approach to the issue, using the various proposals that lie there as building blocks. I think that has resulted in a good package. This package is also in line with the talks we had with municipalities and provinces on Friday. It also gives Secretary of State Dijkhoff and Minister Blok the opportunity to come to good consultation with corporations and municipalities next Friday. That's exactly how it's done. So I have no further reproaches, but in the end we have to talk about the concrete ideas. We are in an extraordinary situation that requires unorthodox solutions. In any case, for the last ten days, I find that the coalition parties have come up with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u135	I assume the Prime Minister has also read D66's plans. He was talking to his colleagues in my first term, but I assume he heard what these plans were. Can the Prime Minister mention two or three of D66's proposals and say whether he likes them or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u136	Mr Pechtold is asking me directly, so now I am forced to find something. Honestly, from the corner of D66 and GroenLinks I have heard mainly comments, but if I have missed some lover somewhere between that comment, I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u137	The Prime Minister always prepares himself well. I have here the D66 refugee action plan and I would like to have a detailed comment on every point in the second term. This weekend, the plan was presented by a medium-sized opposition party. The Prime Minister read the PvdA's plan and the VVD's plan. I would say: let him respond to our plans in detail in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u138	I am not avoiding this challenge, especially since I know that I am still debating much more complex issues with Mr Pechtold all evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u139	I am trying to say that the Prime Minister has practically taken the cabinet to the abyss when it comes to refugees, whether or not they have been brought to an end. Then he leaves the country in suspense and everyone wonders if the cabinet is coming out. You'll never hear from me again. Plans don't work out and you don't hear anything. Now we have the same thing again. Two parties fly into each other's hair and blow each other's plans off. Then one flees in words like "sober." Of course, the word 'just' has to be added to that on the other hand. One of them says we put them in dumpsters. The other one says, "Look, they don't have to pay rent." We may ask questions here, but the first one the best question is not answered. Finally, we get the sneer that the opposition has no plans. There are. I don't think it's appropriate for a prime minister to say to the entire opposition, who's doing her job here, what you're doing is nothing. My question is then: what do you think of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u140	The chairman or me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u141	No, you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u142	This illustrates my point. After all, Mr Pechtold once again presents a series of analyses on how difficult this will be in the coalition. That's really not true. I've been listening to his contribution. I've heard comments mostly. I have heard above all what problems the coalition would try to play away. But again, if there is a whole action plan, I will take the time to do so in the second period. I shall take so much time to postpone the debate on the King's budget. I'm gonna make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u143	I hope this isn't necessary. At least your commitment stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u144	That commitment stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u145	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u146	Mr. Chairman. The first bundle of questions that I'm going to answer, I'm going to go under the heading "port plane/continuity." Questions have been asked about how the COA does the phasing-out and construction. There's a buffer capacity, but it's not very large. On the basis of the last few weeks, everyone knows that it is not true that the COA can say autonomously: now I want room for so many thousand people and then again for more. Every place for an asylum-seekers' centre or other form of reception follows from a route with a municipality. Often agreements have been made on how long that lasts. Last few weeks, here in the Chamber, too, it has become clear that there is a strong commitment to the fulfilment of these agreements. When acquiring new locations, a higher influx has been taken into account. Indeed, I did not see the real peak coming from August, nor did my European colleagues from all the other Member States. That's right. That is why it is now possible to arrange shelter, but in a slightly more ad hoc way. They were asked to involve the local community. We'll do it as much as we can. The administrative route and the route with residents is different at times when a new asylum-seekers' centre is acquired because there is no higher influx but another asylum-seekers' centre closes in six months than when locations are needed very quickly. The recruitment of staff shall take into account the involvement of the local community. The purchase also looks at the local middle class. As a result of the motion by Mr Kuik, I said on 23 September that I would examine with the COA whether this could happen more and whether further steps could be taken. I'll inform the Chamber about that. The COA is exploring that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u147	When it comes to involving the local community, I asked if it could be known to the municipality from the beginning when the COA talks with private real estate owners. This also involves drivers. I now hear from the country that there are situations that the COA has made a kind of agreement with private property owners, subject to reservation, and the municipality is only approached afterwards. A few problems can really be avoided, because municipalities have much more knowledge of who the people are, what is happening and you name it. I would therefore like to be given the assurance that local authorities will be involved from the outset, so that they at least know what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u148	I understand this question and can also imagine that in the hundreds of sections of the COA there has once been a situation in which the municipality could not have been caught yet but with an entrepreneur there has already been looked at a location. This is often about event halls or sports halls. I do not want to say categorically that we are changing the whole policy on the basis of one case. It's a bit of a chicken or egg: the municipality should like it to happen in one place, but if a tent is the private property of an entrepreneur, it should also agree with the rental. It is also happening that municipalities call us and say: we have a place and for us it could be possible, but then you have to talk to the entrepreneur. It also happens that an entrepreneur calls us and says: I have a holiday park. In Wassenaar, for example, every year to clear up the frequently heard misunderstanding that that municipality would do nothing to rent bungalows after the autumn holidays. If something becomes concrete, I think the municipality should be involved as soon as possible. Preferably very early, but it can happen one time that an entrepreneur calls us himself. We'll hear what we can do first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u149	I did not ask on the basis of one case, because that would indeed be a little too thin. Of course, it may happen sometime, but I've heard it from different sides. At the time when the COA is going to talk to private real estate owners, often about holiday parks, I think it is important that we first set a line with the municipalities. They know who it is and what is going on there, so that those will not be attacked by it. There are even situations where that has gotten out of hand. That can be avoided if what I propose is the policy line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u150	The line is to inform the municipality as soon as possible on concrete matters, because an appointment with an entrepreneur is not enough. The locals also need to know what's going on as soon as possible. That should preferably be done through the municipality. Mr Slob also asked in the first term why it should be in the letter that I went into consultation with the mayor of Central Drenthe about the Orange. He said, "Can't you just write what you're doing?" I could have, but in this case, I found it more elegant to give the mayor the opportunity to communicate the deal I made with him to his people. That last one was done today, but the letter was from last night. The deal's next. There are 100 extra people in the Dutch Team last week, and that will be no more than 100. I've further agreed with the mayor that we'll try to move those 100 extra people somewhere else as soon as possible. Our aim is to do so within four weeks and the mayor has said that we have a fifth week's grace if something unexpected happens in the meantime. In any case, we are back to the normal situation where the agreement applies to 700 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u151	I think it is good that there is now a clear time limit, in the sense that within four weeks the original agreement will apply again. I assume the residents have also been informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u152	In the meantime, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u153	And now it is time to take action, because in the personal conversations I have had there, I have noticed that trust has been seriously damaged there. You can only make up for that in one way, namely by showing that those words are really serious to you. So perform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u154	In the meantime, the cabinet has said enough about what has happened there. I think it's good that the Secretary of State has now made new arrangements. The inhabitants also asked for and said the necessary more. I mentioned a part of that in my first term. In such an environment, in an outskirts of a country, 700 people can also cause a huge nuisance to local amenities, such as neighborhood buses or something simple as accessible internet. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to say that he is going to look at these points in concrete terms, for example in the Netherlands, as it has been a nuisance for some time now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u155	It is right that Mr Roemer should come back to that. Mrs Gesthuizen also drew attention to this last week. I can't say it's solved by now, but it hasn't gone off the radar either. So we will also discuss this in the directing group and we will see if we can work together to make things better, including where the Internet is concerned, for example, so that the burden that people experience becomes less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u156	I have another question about the reception and to what extent COA and others can handle it. What's true of the story that hasn't been registered by the Alien Police for weeks now? I hear thousands of people haven't been registered in weeks. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u157	As I have informed the Chamber, there is a delay. We are now on, in terms of having more capacity for registration, which we are now also doing in more places. However, there is still some work to be done to overcome the backlog and we have not yet been able to do so. There is a start-up registration but it does not concern fingerprints.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u158	I think that start-up registration includes "I was in Vlissingen " a number, then the name and country of origin that someone himself gives up. So that's very coarse. All kinds of other data that may be needed, such as medical data, are not included. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what the number is in terms of backlog, so what is the part that we still have to catch up on. Moreover, does he guarantee that at the moment everyone who comes in is now being registered, so that it is only a catch-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u159	I find that last question dangerous to answer. We sometimes talk about daily rates here; these are actually things I have to check by the hour. It works with the influx we have now, but if there is a peak one day at a time, then I have to take that into account. I'll see if I can get the most up-to-date figures. Out of my mind, it's about 2,000 to 2,500. I will look into that later; if I am wrong about that, I will correct it. In any case, I think it is of the utmost importance that the delay be made as quickly as possible, not only for the registration system as such but also for knowing who we have. It is also important to be able to ask my German colleague about his backlog of 250,000 people who have not been registered, because as long as they have not issued their fingerprints in Germany, I cannot possibly claim them back if they change their mind and go to the Netherlands. So I have every interest in making sure that registration goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u160	It is also a question of security: who is in our country? Could I ask the Secretary of State to actively inform the Chamber as soon as new delays arise or the system stops? He himself says that he will be informed of this from hour to hour. It should not be the case that we should ask for it. I would actually like to have an update on this during this period of peak weekly or perhaps biweekly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u161	I'll do that actively. I believe that we have reported these cases every other week in a letter in the last few weeks and sometimes even every week. I'll keep doing that. Since we are working with a plan to catch up, I will certainly inform the Chamber when it has succeeded and is on schedule. Mr Krol asked about the definition of economic refugees and transit aspects. The definition of economic refugee does not actually exist in EU legislation. It is more of a social term that we use for people who migrate, but not along a legal migration route. They are people who call on the asylum procedure, after which we conclude that they are not entitled to do so. We usually use the term economic refugee for these people. We can't focus on that. However, we want to filter out as quickly as possible the people from whom we think they are using the asylum procedure for improper reasons. The cabinet plan provides for the return to countries other than the country of origin. There is support in Europe for doing so more often. However, this requires proper reception in those countries and agreements to refer people back. The system of refugees and asylum means that we, if anyone is here, especially look at where someone originally came from. "In between" is not a factor at the moment, but you know that government policy is aimed at making this more a factor and also at taking regional aspects into account. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the asylum permit and the period of withdrawal after five years. After five years, withdrawal is possible, but not so much on the ground "it is safe again in your country of origin." Withdrawal is possible when it comes to criminal backgrounds and serious criminal offences. From a legal point of view, the Long-term Residents Directive therefore provides that people must be able to become long-term residents after five years. You're actually talking about permanent asylum status. Then it's complex when you try to withdraw it back to the status of those first five years, in the vein of: it's safe in your country of origin, so you can go back. That is not possible at the moment. Mr Buma asked how quickly Kosovars were being treated. I think it is a very good point, that I also hear more often. The plan of D66 contains very concrete clues about making tape recordings. How are we going to select faster? Normally, with an influx that is easier to access, you just say: everyone goes to the IND at the same time and then we find out very quickly who is who and whether someone stands a chance. With a waiting period of four to five months before the procedure starts, it is not in our interest for us to allow people who we think are rejected to winter here four to five months flatly before we say: you are Albanian or a Kosovar, you go back. We are now working pragmatically to get people through the procedure as quickly as possible. I am now working on a more detailed track policy by category. We can then say by category: this category is expected to have no status, so we are going to deal with it more quickly. Not only do we want to tackle it pragmatically, but we want to define it more clearly and put even more emphasis on it. In Europe, it has been decided to work with a list of safe countries. That list will help, because the countries that are on it will help me find it even faster. We have, of course, looked at the European basis for this list, because we want to make it uniform. I deal with it very pragmatically. We now know for which countries in Europe there is support for putting them on that list. We are going to see how long it will take for this European list to arrive, but otherwise I will probably make a national list with the same countries on it. It'll be available faster. Then the list will be replaced by a European list which is exactly the same. You can do that in a couple of weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u162	Of course, we prefer a European list, but that is slow. I call on the Secretary of State to do the latter indeed. We can do that in a couple of weeks. It speeds up the return of people who have to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u163	That's what we're gonna do. Now that we know which countries are on the European list, it is good to do so. Mr Buma also asked about the 7,000 relocaters. What's going on with the hotspot approach? It is a misunderstanding that the Netherlands would not participate. What we see now are pilots. Those pilots are there to see exactly what it takes. The Netherlands did not apply immediately, given the influx that we already have to process. It seems particularly to me to be something for countries which do not have such a large natural influx or who want it for other reasons, to put a lot of attention and energy into working out these pilots and those hotspots. We are in, but it does require that people be properly registered there. If that happens soon, people will not be right throughout the asylum procedure. They just come in their place in line. They do not have a preferential position, they simply have to go into the procedure in the same way. They only came to the Netherlands via other routes. Mr Buma spoke about the transit zones under construction in Germany. I stress the importance of close contacts, including bilaterally. It is not a question of greeting each JHA Council and of how things stand. The domestic political situation in Germany is quite moving. Sometimes things are unthinkable until they happen. I would prefer to have a heads-up in advance on what exactly one is going to do, so that we can possibly join or participate or respond if it does not suit us. I'm very attached to that. The final signal is that part of the coalition supports those transit zones. Another part doesn't or doesn't. The European Commission will soon be expressing its views on what Germany is doing at the moment. The Netherlands has that mobile surveillance. We are going to use the information we get from this to see if we need to step up. Of course, it is not a method of stopping people at the border, but it is a method that has led to the disruption and arrest of smugglers. A one-to-one relationship with the inflow rates is difficult to establish during this period. Mr Pechtold asked about the D66 plan for recording and language analysis. I didn't take that as a suggestion, but of course it's not like we're not doing anything about language analysis right now. The IND looks at the documents that people give and the statements made. Before I say anything concrete about it, I would like to take it with me in a broader sense, also in relation to the policy with the tracks. How can we share this objective as quickly as possible, and make it clear to this category that it was not worth the effort? Nor should we allow it to be worth the effort by a shelter that is more pleasant than at home. With the reception methods that we now have, that is something different than last year, but still: no fees, no reception and immediately, preferably per round, provide clarity. Whether tape recordings can be a useful part of that, I will take it with me. The sooner we can provide clarity on the ground, the less we need it. Unfortunately, we do not have an app that immediately shows a flag of which language it is. That would be ideal. Then we don't have to listen to the recordings later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u164	I asked in my input for the conclusions of the JHA Council, which stated that work will be done to strengthen the detention of aliens. That wasn't exactly specified. What was that? It does not come back to the draft conclusions for tomorrow's Council. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u165	I will explain this, while looking at the Prime Minister's facial expression. Migration managers find their own decisions strong enough not to always have to see them one-on-one confirmed in the European Council. They stand on their own, they have value on their own. We have discussed a number of matters concerning return. The Netherlands is in pre-remotion detention. Some countries have a bit of a problem with that. It has, of course, also been the subject of discussion here. The European Commission has explicitly mentioned it in a whole context of other things that you should also do. If we want to make serious work of returning countries, we must also dare to take such measures for forced return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u166	Does this mean an adaptation of Dutch practice or is this a translation of Dutch practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u167	The Dutch practice fits what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u168	I asked a question about specific concerns that can play in the vicinity of shelters, such as in Amstelveen where the Central Jewish Consultation called. Is consultations also taking place with these organizations in such situations because of the very specific sensitivities that play in this case in Jewish circles?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u169	The primacy for that consultation lies with the local government. Of course, we are available, as are people from the COA, to explain what is happening and what we can do. The local government chooses its own forms of consultation. These may be public participation evenings, but also specific discussions with residents' groups, local residents or representatives of special institutions present in such a neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u170	I have suggested the use of used barracks: the Marne, Oirschot, The Hague. Apparently, this has happened recently, but not by default. These barracks are available, for example because the military are abroad. Can we do business with the Defense Department, because crisis shelters in sports halls are far from ideal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u171	My knowledge of the use and ways of using defence sites has also increased over the last week. Defence has now become an indispensable partner for us to fix this. In addition to knowledge of areas that Defence had, it is often also about the supply and construction of equipment. We can do it quickly and well in the case of abandoned defence sites, because what is there is still in the view of the Defense Department. Using operationally in use Defence sites is more difficult. I do have contact with my colleague, Mr Hennis, because she is basically concerned about this. She'll cooperate where she can. Yet I also sometimes think: that should be possible there?! I understand why this is difficult with things that are stored or with complexes that are difficult to separate. To put an end to dragging people from sports hall to sports hall, we have agreed with the provinces to see if we can make large-scale shelter possible per province. The possibilities include former defence sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u172	I would, otherwise but by a statement from the Chamber, encourage the Defense Department to use operational barracks as much as possible as we can. We understand the restrictions more generously. After all, some are equipped with beds, kitchens, surveillance and everything, while this does not apply to sports halls. The Secretary of State only needs to see that as support. If this is gonna be a real problem, I'd like to hear from the D.O.D. exactly where it's gonna be. I appreciate the Secretary of State who says about the minister she's cooperating, but I'm also getting signals that it's very formalistic. Maybe we can help the Secretary of State, who only has to smile, with a speech in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u173	That would be an element in the further discussions. I think I've answered all the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u174	Mr. Chairman. We have gone into the debate on the causes of the current problem in Syria, the humanitarian crisis there and the situation in the camps surrounding it, and the question of how we can manage it. We must also consider how things are going with those who have been found to be a war fugitive and who are, in any case, allowed to stay here temporarily. Questions and motions have been tabled by the Chamber on this matter. I think this is an extremely important part. It has been said that from day one you should actually start integrating the people about who it is. The cabinet agrees. On day 1 after it has been established that someone is a war fugitive, we have to achieve three things: to learn the language, to make sure that the standards and values of Dutch society are known and innerized, and to ensure that people are oriented towards the labour market. This requires a number of things, which we also have in the normal infrastructure, but which now require additional measures because of the number of people coming here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u175	It is fascinating to hear how different the approach of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is. He focuses on integration and stays here. But that third also includes a fourth, namely the announcement that when it is safe again in the country of origin, we must return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u176	Sure. I told you, people who have been established to be war fugitives can stay here temporarily. Temporarily means you'll go back when it's safe. It also means that you should not put people in a corner with the announcement: wait until it is peace in Syria. On the contrary, you make people learn the language and gain knowledge of Dutch society. Those are the values and standards that make this such a fantastic country. Furthermore, wherever possible, you allow people to contribute to society by allowing them to use their talents for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u177	I share the need for people to use their talents. I realize that the Minister is working on this, but I keep saying that it is important for the whole picture that we keep in mind that we are catching war refugees. That is our moral duty. The downside of that is that people have to realize they're going back when it's safe again. We have all just heard how little that happens, but we also know how necessary it is, because other people can come later. I therefore urge the Minister, who comes here actively, to make it clear that it is a temporary stay because of war, that this stay can end and that we must therefore also focus on return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u178	There is really no difference of opinion between the cabinet and Mr Buma. I very much agree with him. That is why I started with a sketch of how the debate went on. What's going on out there? What is going on in Syria and Iraq, which means that hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing at the same time, moving? Which means that for the Netherlands as part of Europe and for our task of taking on people in a decent way. What are you doing with people who have been established to be allowed to stay here temporarily? It means you explain what their right is. This is indeed a matter of the right to temporary residence. In view of everything that is happening in Syria, you must also bear in mind that this will take longer than just a moment. In the meantime, as a society, you have an interest in children going to school, standing on their own feet as much as possible and contributing to society, learning the language and getting to know the norms and values of Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u179	In general, I agree with that. In fact, I'd like to encourage it. My problem with the cabinet is that distinction, namely that we wait until it is done. That wait only lasts longer; months pass. Learning the language from day one has so much effect. 1. You've got a sense of spending, because you're gonna do something during the day instead of hanging out in the gym. 2. If you enter the village or the city, you can make yourself understandable. Sometimes you have to do it with "good morning" and "good afternoon," but you can at least show that you are interested in the community you receive. 3. It has been shown that people who are allowed to stay here in the future are therefore two to three times more likely to enter the labour market. It's in everyone's interest to just start on day one. On day one you may still have to work with volunteers, but at some point those language lessons should be given by professionals. Is the government going to facilitate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u180	That's a fair question. You have to distinguish between two phases. You have the phase from the moment it's been established that someone is a war fugitive and so he can stay here temporarily. There is a lot of profit to be made by tackling a number of things faster and better. There has been talk of the importance of quickly looking at what competences people have and what diplomas there are. I made agreements with refugee organisations, employers and the COA on Monday to do the screening required for this quickly and properly. What are diplomas worth? What does someone need to get a place in the labour market? The second is the language. I fully agree with Mr Pechtold: the sooner you start acquiring the language, the greater your chances of finding affordable work. The third is the standards and values. For all three of these things, you sometimes have the opportunity to take steps at the same time. I agree with what Secretary of State Dijkhoff said about this. I want to work on that with him, too. He was talking about two-track policy. Why is that important? That is important, because we should not invest or invest in the Albanian and Kosovar who we have decided with each other that it does not belong here. He should not therefore feel that he should be allowed to stay here. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What you do want is for people who will later be determined to be war refugees to start as soon as possible. You will indeed come to another level: it will have to be more with volunteers and it will not be the formal integration. However, I am prepared to examine with the Secretary of State how, without limiting the effective functioning of the asylum system, we can use the dual-track approach and therefore help people who are likely to be allowed to stay here temporarily to integrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u181	I would prefer to leave the two tracks next to each other as much as possible, if not over each other, because 80% is allowed to stay. If you form a class of twenty people who already take some language lessons, there is possibly a handful that does not come through the procedure. Of them I would say: at least at that time these people have been making sense, and we haven't had them wandering the streets, just to look at it from a different perspective. I would therefore like the Minister to let us know in the short term how the policy is getting hands and feet. My problem is that the numbers have been adjusted downwards and so have the budgets. In addition, from Rutte I, everything for integration has been cut down, language and whatever. I do not want to end up in a situation where we have to wait months with the UNG and with the cities to know who will pay the bill, while the account will be much higher in the future, in months and years, because of assistance and so on. Now, I would say, to speed things up and, if necessary, learn 'good morning' from Albanian, just to sum it up. Don't wait too long!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u182	I very much agree with that. It is indeed a matter of speeding up. In this respect, we still have a world to gain from the people who have been granted a status. So let me start there, but let me say that I will come back to that other point: can we do more in the preliminary phase, through the two tracks? For that, I will develop policy together with the Secretary of State. We also have a responsibility to each other not to limit the effectiveness of asylum policy on the basis of the need to get people on the road. I very much agree with Mr Pechtold that we can make huge profits at the next stage. Of course, the municipalities tell us that they have a limited budget for social support. The Cabinet recognizes that, too. We did not agree that all accounts should be paid, but that we should consider in a joint process what is necessary to properly shape reception, education, language and integration. So the question is not what the wish list is, but what is needed, from the adadium "just and sober." Nor will we let that drag. As the Prime Minister pointed out, we are going to process the new estimates and provide the finance for the Year's Note. Then we will also agree with the municipalities on what is needed to shape integration. I see that I have not annoyed Mr Pechtold, but have cheered him up. Maybe that's good for the variety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u183	Will you also send a letter to the Chamber about how you're going to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u184	I think it is almost inevitable that we should inform the Chamber about this, and we will do so in writing. I come to the subject of work. When are refugees allowed to work? Refugees are allowed to work before the procedure ends. There are rules for that, and I think those rules are sensible. As long as it is not yet certain that people are allowed to stay, it is logical that they should be allowed to work, but that they should also be restricted. There is, however, talk about it. In the D66 action plan, which I of course spelled this weekend, I saw that the limitation would go off. That seems to me to be a little too big a step in the debate on whether or not to act on the subject of repression. Let us ensure that people who have a status and who therefore need to be treated equally with others, and should not be disadvantaged or advanced, get access to the labour market by showing what they can and what their diplomas are worth, so that they can contribute to society. Let us continue to exercise some restraint for the group that sits before it. Those people do not have the same status as those who have been found to be refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u185	Fine. But before we feel that we are in agreement, it is not yet working out as ideal. If we agree on this, at least I have not only physically a minister in front of me, but also a minister in addition to me in terms of intent, namely a minister who says: there are so many more opportunities. If you do nothing in the first few years, learn no language and do not work, the benefit is then permanent. In that respect, there are really terrible numbers. For example, in the case of people from India, unemployment rates are very different from those of Somalis, who have had nothing all these years. So the Minister says, "Yes, I'm gonna improve that?" This means, therefore, that the diplomas must be validated quickly. Syria had a fantastic education system; the number of illiterates was twice as high as in the Netherlands, so very low. Will the Minister also come forward with concrete proposals on this issue which will speed up the possibilities in the fields of labour market, language and diplomas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u186	Absolutely. In the conversation Monday night, it was about how to better shape the screening, how to get the language faster, how to involve volunteers and how to better shape the set of values. Refugee organisations The Netherlands (VON) has offered assistance. This is important. The tendency to generalize is very large, but refugees are not all highly educated ICTs or illiterate testosterone bombs. Among the people who come here are bad people and good ones. It is the art to harness the talent, ambition and energy that many refugees have and to ensure that they use it for the benefit of Dutch society. That means it's not all the same. It means you have to get a good look at what people can do and then give them space. You shouldn't favor them, but give them the space to go to work and provide their own livelihood. In the past, many refugees have proven this. Then you are also off the discussion about the level of provision in the Netherlands; then tax is paid instead of received. If we shape this business and communicate clearly and clearly that when it gets better and is safe, people go back, I am convinced that people can do a lot more than we have seen in the past. I'm sure if you go back to your country, it's better if you've worked here in one, two, three, four or five years, you've developed, you've used your talents than you haven't. The cabinet is therefore very motivated to get more out of it. And yes, we will come up with concrete proposals. Not only do we think of them, but we do so together with the relevant organisations, with the employers and employees in the Netherlands and with refugee organisations. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions because of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u187	I have a small question for this minister. If many status holders end up in temporary homes from the asylum seekers' centres, we run the risk of a lot of people from Syria sitting together in one building in one neighborhood. That increases the risk of ghetto formation. That doesn't make integration any easier. How does this minister, who has integration in his portfolio, deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u188	If you look at the situation in the Netherlands in practical terms, you will see that we do not have the choice at all to wait until enough rentals are available in the different neighbourhoods. We're gonna have to make sure we have proper care. At the moment when people come from the asylum centres, they are making considerable progress. If we actually shape that into sober facilities, it offers people the opportunity to become part of society. If you find a job, then nothing stands in your way to rent a house elsewhere, to move on. I think we need to be very clear. The moment you live here, Dutch standards and values apply. Then you also have the obligation to do your best, to learn about those values and to integrate them. It's not ideal. It is also not ideal if you come together to live in a temporary home, an office building or a container. But you're safe and you're in one of the most amazing countries in the world. So there's every chance to make something out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u189	That's all true. But we also know history and know that if there are a lot of people of the same origin in neighborhoods, that integration does not, to say the least, promote integration. We are now at a point where we can better organise it. I had hoped that there would be a minister in front of me who would understand that and who would proactively do something about it. The Prime Minister wasn't getting to admit more affordable homes, so that everyone benefits and we get real flow. If the cabinet doesn't want that, doesn't this minister have to think of something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u190	It's en-and. We have an obligation to ensure that people find decent accommodation. In the time we're living now, it'll be sober. That is also perfectly understandable; it will be understood. Of course it's sober and you have to live together if you don't have a job yet but you already have a status. That doesn't mean that all of this has to happen in one neighborhood. That doesn't mean that all people from the same country have to live in the same neighborhood. No, we'll still make agreements with municipalities about the place where people are housed. The beauty of both the municipal self-care arrangement and the intermediate homes, the semi-permanent homes that Minister Blok is working on, is that they do not have to be large-scale all in one place. You can take advantage of the locations that are now there, of office buildings that are now there and of empty spaces in the city to put those containers down. There is plenty of room to do that with the municipalities, in consultation with the corporations. The corporations also have a good view on how to build mixed buildings and how to ensure that groups of people can blend into their environment. So the objective is there. My speech was aimed at discussing with Mr Roemer that everyone will have to understand. That is a choice that you now have to make. In this kind of unusual circumstances you first opt for sober and then start looking at how people can integrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u191	If the Minister had talked about choosing temporary housing, I would have said: that is true, we should, above all, do so. However, we should not talk about the numbers that are being discussed. If you want real flow and really want multiple people together, you have to make sure that so much is being built, temporary and permanent, that people who are long on the waiting list can sit there. But then we will not be able to get there with the numbers I have heard today. Then I'm much more likely to poke for what the PvdA suggested last week, namely that you should talk about about about 100,000. Are this minister and the cabinet prepared to fight for us to go that way, so that we actually arrive at mixed neighbourhoods, permanent, semi-permanent, temporary or whatever you want to call it, and we can really work on integration? If that is the case, I would like to support it with a motion. Then we'll help each other out a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u192	Once again, it's about taking apart the different numbers. We have the agreement on the 10,000 people who should actually go to the municipalities as soon as possible from the existing asylum-seekers' centres. This is important because of the fact that some of the problems with emergency care are of course caused by the fact that people with status remain in the asylum-seekers' centres. That's what's gonna be 10,000 in six months. This is not the same as the ambition that we, together the corporations and the municipalities, have to develop for those semi-permanent homes. We don't have a number for that yet. If that becomes 100,000, it shows that municipalities, corporations and cabinet agree that that is the number. We are certainly very ambitious in that. As far as I am concerned, one of the good things about this measure is that these homes will not only be available for status holders, but also for people who are now waiting for a home. So they are not being replaced, but perhaps they are being given more scope as a result of these measures. We have a great ambition there. After the consultation between the corporations, Dijkhoff, Blok and municipalities has taken place, we can inform the Chamber about the concrete plans that emerged from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u193	I am glad that the Minister says that he wants to do a lot of work on integration and that he also consults on it. I hope, moreover, that we can expect the letter he is talking about before we deal with the Social Affairs and Employment budget, so that we can discuss it in detail. I have another question for the Minister. I was just talking about the importance of indicating what the aim of the policy is and what it is not. I look around and see what is happening in Europe, on different sides, and also how the debate in the Netherlands is forming. It looks like it's all for itself and every country is trying to become as unattractive as possible for refugees, giving you a race to the bottom. Will the Deputy Prime Minister state that, like me, he thinks that is undesirable and that we should avoid it? Does he also think that we should not get a race per country to the bottom, but should work together at European level to take people well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u194	As far as the first is concerned, we're moving forward. We ensure that we quickly agree on the whole story of the people who are coming here: the question of how to select who is allowed to stay and who is not and how to shape the shelter, then housing and then integration. The agreement with the other governments is that we will incorporate it in the autumn note. This means that I can undertake to include the SZW Committee in what we have agreed on language, on standards and values and on the screening of competences. Then the second. The way in which the Netherlands does this, how we have always done it in our history and what we are working on here today, is aimed at taking responsibility as a country from the realization that the Netherlands cannot do it alone, but has to work with European countries to solve it. This must be done not only with the European countries, but also with the countries of destination: Germany, Sweden, Austria and Belgium. Those are the countries where a lot of people are going now. You won't have to have it from a race to the bottom between those countries. You're gonna have to talk about clarity, a quick review, and good information about the fact that people are here temporarily. Then you have to take care of the people who are temporarily here and make sure that you enable them to contribute to society. What always comes first for me is that you keep seeing people. If you see people, you can also judge them by their behavior. If that's bad behavior, you intervene, just like the Dutch. If that's good behavior, you give them a chance to contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u195	I am very pleased with this answer. I also asked the Prime Minister this question. That's when I actually didn't get an answer. The answer I hear now is quite clear: we are not going to compete in a race to the bottom, and the goal can never be that policy has a deterrent effect on refugees. If I've understood correctly, I'm gonna sit down again and I'm really happy. This is the way in which the Netherlands has to face this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u196	I found the "Where's Rutte?"-joke fun, but I just heard him say the same thing. We don't need a race to the bottom. The Netherlands is a decent country. It always has been, and it always will be. So I fully agree with what he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u197	This has put an end to the government's first term. I see there's a need for a short suspension. You can wash your hands and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u198	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u199	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering all the questions. One ruler could do a little better than the other. I also noticed clearly a difference in tone. The Minister of Social Affairs corrected himself well. He protected the Prime Minister in that sense, as he should. I meant what I just said in the interruption: I found the words of the Minister for Social Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister much warmer and more convincing when it came to the position of the Netherlands. He said that we are not participating in a race to the bottom and that we are not ensuring that our policy for refugees is as terrifying as possible. We cannot accommodate everyone in the Netherlands. That's physically impossible. In Europe, however, we can handle a great deal when we work together. That is where the solution must lie if the pressure in the Netherlands is to become too great. I am also pleased with the ever wider discussion. When the whole discussion began about the problems that we now have with the reception of refugees, I was equally afraid that we would step into the mistakes of the 1990s, that integration would be forgotten and that we would focus on not letting people get used to the Netherlands too much and that many people would go back. However, I have heard today, including from the VVD, that I congratulate you on the fact that we must be realistic, that we must try to get people to learn and get to work as quickly as possible, and that we must ensure that people are able to take up education. Mr Pechtold will table a motion on this, which I have co-signed, because integration is one of the most important aspects. If we are to succeed in solving all the housing problems, we must ensure that we do not create the next problem in five or ten years' time. Integration is very important for that. Last Monday, the coalition concluded an agreement or a plan, which was no longer really a plan, but which led to all sorts of measures. On that basis, we have tried today to clarify what is going to happen. What's gonna happen to the welfare? Is that going down? Is there going to be a division in society? Do asylum seekers, refugees receive rights other than those of the Netherlands? I've heard sounds at times that make me think: my concern may be reduced, but it's not quite gone yet. It is important that we vote on this as a Chamber. I understand that we are now taking measures to accommodate people who are not ideal. I understand that we choose housing that we do not really want to choose, but everything is better than having to sleep on the street. However, I do not want us to create a division, because these people are part of our society. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the austerity of reception should not be used as an instrument to discourage refugees from coming to the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government not to create a distinction between the level of social security and health care provision of status holders and other citizens in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Pechtold, Mr Roemer and Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1007]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u200	Mr. Chairman. There are 60 million people on the run worldwide. That's more than ever. So it is not surprising that people go all over the world to ensure that they are safe and that they are also coming towards Europe and the Netherlands. In many cases, these are vulnerable people. That's half the 60 million kid. It's a good thing we're talking about that. It is good that the European summit devotes a lot of time to this. It should be, but then it is also important, let me say to the Prime Minister that tomorrow all the possibilities for de-escalation policy will be discussed. There are no solutions without political solutions. Is the Prime Minister prepared to make that side really strong? I hope he will respond to that in the second term. In the region, a number of countries are catching up with a lot of people. Some places are reasonable, but many places are still far below the level. Something really needs to be done there. I am very happy that the Prime Minister, when he came back from America, also went to Woerden. He just remembered that. That's good. People want to see him there too, but it would also be good if the Prime Minister felt what it was like in such a refugee camp in the region. I'd like to urge him to see if he can make time to go there and find out what it is. We do, too. That's really good. I congratulate him for one thing and I'm going to go a little further and stimulate him to the other. 'Cause it's a good thing that when you talk about something, you know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u201	But then I expect Mr Roemer not to complain that the Prime Minister is out of the country when he is out of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u202	I didn't complain that he was out of the country. I said it was a good thing he was at the United Nations. Yes, Mr Zijlstra, you must say it correctly, but I can see from your smile that you are once again in agreement with me. I'm glad. Since this European summit tomorrow is of great importance to a number of regions, I have two motions for resolutions. The first is about the reception in the region. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Chamber and the Cabinet, as well as the European Councils, have repeatedly expressed their support for improving the reception of millions of refugees in conflict areas;]] [[noting that too few concrete things have been done to achieve this improvement;]] [[calls on the government, at the European summit, to act quickly to ensure that the desired improvements have become a reality before winter begins,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1008]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u203	I have been really concerned about the situation in Turkey in the first place, even in the event of interruption. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The Prime Minister can take it to the European summit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the violence in the south-east of Turkey has been seriously escalated since last summer;]] [[Notes that human rights organisations and media report gross human rights violations and high levels of civilian casualties due to this violence;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister, at EU level, to urge Turkey to engage in human rights violations in the south-east of the country and to resume internal peace talks with the PKK,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1009]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u204	Many topics have been discussed in the Netherlands: integration, facilities and the prevention of second-class citizens. One of these subjects has been discussed in more detail, namely the lack of living space. This is a major problem, not only for status holders but also for many people who have been on a waiting list for years. It is good that extra construction is going to take place, it is good that extra temporary construction is taking place and it is good that there is consultation with the VNG, but something really needs to be done. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the waiting times for social rents continue to increase and that as a result more and more people are getting in trouble;]] [[considers that it is necessary to provide a sustainable solution for all those seeking accommodation;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the VNG and other interested parties, to achieve, as soon as possible, 100,000 additional temporary and affordable housing for the social target group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1010]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u205	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. For me today, the central question was: why are we now in crisis relief and are people not registered? I believe that we, as Parliament, should be able to monitor this and ask questions about it and that clear answers should be given to it. The following question, of course, was: how are we going to ensure that there are concrete plans here? My irritation towards the Prime Minister was in the following. The letter from the cabinet has yet to be worked out and there is another study group. Then the coalition parties are complimented, but one says "we get 300,000, the population of a city like Utrecht" and the other says "we're going to build 100,000 homes." In short, we're getting beat up again with big numbers. That is something that should be asked for here in Parliament. What's it really worth? In order to ensure that we can strengthen a few things in this situation, I have a number of motions for resolutions. The first motion concerns the procedure of selection at the beginning. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for people to occupy places in the asylum shelter for months if there is a good chance that they will not be eligible for asylum status;]] [[calls on the government to identify where people come from at the start of registration, for example through language analysis;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the process of bringing people from countries with little or no chance of asylum and, in the event of rejection, to return quickly to the country of origin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1011]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u206	The other motions are to a large extent about giving opportunities to the people who do stay here. The next motion concerns language courses, which my group believes should be taken into account in emergency care. Mr Klaver had already announced his support for this motion. I was allowed to submit it on his behalf, but I am also presenting it on behalf of Mr Slob. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum seekers are currently staying in emergency care for up to four months before they can submit their application for asylum;]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for the integration of the large groups of refugees reaching our country that language learning begins at an early stage;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the COA, to examine whether language courses can be offered in the emergency shelters in the short term and to inform the Chamber within three weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver and Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1012]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u207	My next motion concerns the Dutch lesson for people with a status and in particular the financial aspects thereof. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as soon as people are given refugee status, Dutch lessons should be provided immediately;]] [[Whereas the potential for a job with good knowledge of Dutch is three times greater;]] [[calls on the Government to provide practical and financial support to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1013]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u208	Sports halls are far from optimal. Operational barracks should, where possible, be available in this emergency situation, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of reception locations for asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the government, operational barracks such as De Marne, The Hague or Oirschot to make available for reception as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1014]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u209	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this debate was a positive exception to the many debates we have had on this subject. In these many debates the emotion was often of a large size and the politics of a very small one. This debate was a clear exception to that. I believe that this also reflects the shared sense of urgency that all parties have. Apart from one party, of which we will soon be able to see the usual motion of censure rather than a solution. In any case, all the other parties feel the urgency of working together on a solution to this issue. That's exactly what politics should be like. I believe that opposition parties have also been alert to the approach in recent weeks and months, and sometimes earlier than some coalition parties. We can work together now. This means that the executive, the cabinet, now has a lot of work to do. That starts tomorrow in Europe, making sure that the negotiations with Turkey in particular are going well, as Mr Roemer said. Mr Timmermans has just landed in Istanbul and is starting talks there. I do not expect him to come back tomorrow with a thunderous agreement, but I hope that the first agreements can be made, so that we can continue to work. That is where the key to solving this refugee problem lies, at least one of the keys. The same applies to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. In anticipation of his letter, he could start to scale up the necessary integration activities or other activities tomorrow in order to ensure that people who are here are temporarily and perhaps have the opportunity to return. Let us hope that they will not be staring ahead in the intervening years. For that is good for no one; neither for them nor for the Netherlands. It also applies to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who must, of course, continue to work on achieving as much reception as possible. The concrete result of this debate and of the last few days is that we have now outlined a few directions for the creation of more shelters, both temporary and slightly longer in different forms, which, by looking at the hairs of the eye, have a broad support base in this Chamber. That's how we have to work. This problem will not leave us in the coming months, and perhaps even years. So over the coming months and years, as far as I am concerned, with all our political differences, we are working together on the right solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u210	Madam President. Tens of thousands of asylum seekers are flooding our country. This is because our borders are open, wide open, thanks to Prime Minister Rutte. Next year, according to the European Union itself, there will be millions more towards Europe. Many will also find our country. The Netherlands can't handle that. Millions of Dutch don't want that. It's disrupting our country and it's definitely beyond our absorption capacity. A lot of people from our beautiful country are angry. They are furious and feel powerless, because they are laughing at their legitimate concerns and their justified objections. And I say to all these people again today: resist! Resistance! Of course, nonviolent and democratic, but do it! It's working! Look at Purmerend, where people protested in a neat way and the city council finally said no to an AZC. Of course, it is also insane: open borders and an asylum system that is going to cost our country billions, billions that the Dutch have earned for better care or an indexed pension. That's what we're waiting for. That's what our money needs to be spent on. These open borders lead to more Islamisation, more crime. All those testosterone bombs on our streets chasing our women and our daughters. Who wants that? It leads to the taking of our jobs, while we still know 600,000 unemployed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u211	Now that Mr Wilders is here again, I wonder if he has been able to reflect a little on the fact that he has not done what he has to do, namely to assess the proposals that allow the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u212	I gave that answer to you in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u213	No, because then you didn't know. So I wonder if you've checked what happened by now. You are all using very big words now, and I will not let you say them if you do not indicate what you really did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u214	I gave my answer in my first term, no matter how many times you ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u215	This is the famous Wilder method again. As soon as one question comes, the debate stops and Wilders doesn't answer anymore. I'm asking a perfectly normal question. The first round I confronted you with the fact that you do not do what you have to do, namely to check the government's plans. You shout at everyone "go in opposition," you share leaflets, but what you have to do, you don't do. So my question is: you could never have done that then; have you reflected on it already? That's something that needs to be done now. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u216	I just gave my answer. I keep telling you, no matter how many times you ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u217	No, it is not, because you cannot give the answer that you said it in the first term if I ask you now whether you have reflected on it since then. The answer is yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u218	I've already given my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u219	No, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u220	I will continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u221	No, I'm just asking a question and a normal MP here is answering a colleague's question. That's the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u222	I just did. You don't like it, and that's all you're gonna get. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u223	So you insist that what you said in the first term is an answer to a normal question from a colleague in the second term. This room doesn't have to accept that from you at all. We ask you normal questions, and you should be pleased that I am having this debate with you. You are not conducting the debate at all. I ask you one more time: have you since the first term reflected on the fact that you simply did not do what is your core task, the assessment of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u224	That's what we do. We always do. In that case, we have done the same. I have just replied to Mr van de CDA. And yes, you will have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u225	That's very interesting. Now the answer will come. You say, "We did that at the time."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u226	We did. We always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u227	If so, it will be interesting to know why you agreed to the cabinet's proposal to make it easier to set up large asylum seekers' centres in the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u228	If you look back carefully, you will see that my colleague, Madlener, has also made the comments in the Acts. He commented on the fact that this law would be used for the larger asylum seekers' centres. In the end, we have thought about this law in its entirety, and that is what I am still saying that we could vote for it in general. We have done that, but the comments, our objections, read the Acts, but after Mr Madlener made them. You can just find it in the records of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u229	Mr Wilders is still talking about the totally wrong law. He is now talking about the start of the Crisis and Recovery Act. This is about something more recent. I mention it because it is so essential, because it gives the cabinet the legitimacy of what he is so opposed to and against, namely the creation of large asylum seekers' centres in the provinces. That was an AMvB that was given a veil a year ago in November last year and was passed through a written procedure here. The majority of the parties agreed to this. Mr Roemer is the only one who asked questions about this in a written round. Not you. It's passed and it's in the Official Journal. So your entire Mr. Madlener didn't say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u230	Oh, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u231	You didn't even look at the right law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u232	It doesn't make any sense. I am going to answer again and then I am not going to give it any more, although Mr Buma says 500 times: we have made the point when dealing with the law from which the AMvB comes that we think it should not be used for this. You can read that back in the pieces. There was much more in that law and that is why we voted in favour of it. That's what we did. We have looked at it and we have given the answer. We often vote in favour of laws that contain a part that does not please us. The Crisis and Recovery Act from which that AMvB comes also had many positive points. We have done our job very well and are going to do it again tomorrow in the country, Mr Buma. Doing your job here and doing your job outside, don't bite each other. I'd like you to do that a little more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u233	Mr Wilders keeps talking about the wrong law all the time. That says enough. He's had hours. We often ask the cabinet to write a letter within an hour, but this is about one AMvB, which he has not looked at. I ask Mr Wilders, when he goes to all these places again, to tell the people honestly that thanks to him there will soon be large centres in the provinces for the reception of asylum seekers and that he, doing his job in the House of Representatives, has chosen not to stop it. Then he'd be a guy instead of calling for the resistance of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u234	We will be telling the people of the country, Mr Buma, quite honestly that, as far as the PVV is concerned, there will be zero more asylum seekers in this country, that we will close the borders, that no one will come in at all and that we will no longer need asylum centres for that reason. We will also tell the people, Mr Buma, that the CDAs are the accountants of this Chamber, who may indeed be looking at everything and pay tribute to it, but in the meantime open up the borders, which means that we in the country need asylum seekers' centres. You don't need them with us. I'm going into the country to support the people. With you you need them, for you say: Come in with your servant, with the limits wide open. And that is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u235	But then there's no reason to go to all these places. So now that all these people are already in the Netherlands, you also think they should be taken care of, because that is why you voted in favour of that rule. You were open to the borders, but now that they are, you say, given what you were supposed to do with the AMvB, apparently also: sorry, now we have to agree to large asylum seekers' centres. Be a man and say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u236	Yeah, I'm a guy, and I say, "Next line, zero asylum seekers." I say to everyone: look at the CDA, look at Mr Buma. Mr Buma says: the borders must be wide open. Mr Buma says that the 13 000 of September is not enough. Mr Buma says: we must build up the country with asylum seekers' centres. He may be laughing a bit now, but the CDA lets all these asylum seekers in, and the CDA lets us spend all that money on asylum seekers instead of on pensions and other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u237	Of course, the CDA is quite right that you do not read the laws, but I would like to comment on what you can tell us in the country about the moment you deliver. In the first term, I asked you to reflect on the fact that when you formed the government, thousands of asylum seekers came and you now say: it is going to be zero. Are you going to say in all these places: I tell and promise you that, but the moment I sit at the table, I just let it happen? Do you also say that I am campaigning "65 stays the age," but the day after the election do I turn that in? And you say: I'm going to tell you now that there are zero asylum seekers coming in, but the day that I have the power again, they just keep coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u238	It is a bit embarrassing to see that Mr Buma is just laughing at people and Mr Pechtold is trying to do a trick now. You do not have all the people behind you, and I believe you are on ten seats in the polls, Mr Pechtold. Your story doesn't resonate. People do not understand why Mr Pechtold and Mr Buma leave these boundaries open. I say to everyone, as I say to Mr Pechtold: at the PVV you know one thing for sure, and that is zero asylum seekers. With us, you know one thing for sure, and that's that the boundaries are closing, that's enough. People can hold us to that. We're not from the Buma and Pechtold Division, but we're opening the borders. We do not, we do not want that, and I am very happy that there is at least one party left in the House of Representatives who dares to represent all these millions of people. And I'm telling you, I'm proud of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u239	It is not the easiest day for Mr Wilders: a little hand in the pockets and a little discomfort, because yes, it is once again debate blown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u240	It's a great day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u241	You noticed by the first term. With the first group chairmen he still dared, but then came the cabinet. He didn't have a question. Not to the Prime Minister, not to the Deputy Prime Minister, not to the Secretary of State; he had no one to ask. 'Cause he'll see how it goes at the moment it's about facts. If he's been to law enforcement, he'll be dried out here. At the moment he says "zero," it is shown here that he himself is responsible for thousands. The moment he is confronted with Greece, his own past appears to be rather dubious here. I think Mr Wilders should go into the country a lot, but with something else, namely: "I promise you, but I never deliver anything. The only thing I'm giving you is the 20th motion of censure." 'Cause I think that's it today. What an anniversary!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u242	I know that it hurts a lot in all those colleagues and groups in the House of Representatives who see hundreds of thousands of voters walking away to the PVV every day. That hurts. I understand the frustration with Mr Pechtold, who is trying so hard and is going to interrupt every detail twenty times. No Dutchman who gets him and no one who looks at him. Every week he returns seats. I am looking at Mr Buma, whose party the same thing is happening. He has about the same big mouth to me, but no beginning to understand what all those voters think and say. We'll represent them. I'm proud of it and I'm going into the country! When Mr Pechtold said in the first sentence of his first term that he found it embarrassing, all those voters who are opposed, I interrupted him because we are not that kind of politicians. We are politicians, Mr Pechtold, who say what people think. We take seriously the sound of the people in the country, in Purmerend, in Almere, and Wassenaar and anywhere else, who say that we do not have a centre for asylum seekers. We do not play The Hague games, in the vein of: were you there then or were you not there then. We take these people seriously. You should do that instead of standing like a sheep laughing at the interrupting microphone. You should do this. You'd learn something from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u243	It's all questionable games. If anyone's been around here for 25 years, paid by the taxpayer, it's Mr. Wilders. It's the frontrunner of The Hague. It's the frontrunner! When I wake up on Sunday morning, I see Wilders tweeting again about the polls. The fact is, Mr Wilders, that you lost three elections in a row. In the Senate, in the county, in the city council, if you're already in. You must tell the people: I scream, I cause unrest, I set up groups against each other, and I promise you that I will let zero in; but at the moment I am working, I turn all this back in. It's a lot of noise and it's motions of mistrust, but it's a zero, zero. Fat zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u244	This is why Mr Pechtold will never get past being "guy Pechtold," with a few seats in the polls and no influence in The Hague. Much more important is the total loosening of reality on the street. I have just read you ten, fifteen, twenty e-mails from ordinary citizens in my first term. You're laughing at it, but they're civilians who know their daughter's being chased. That disabled people in the shop are almost kicked out of their wheelchairs by the Islamic scum that makes the streets and shops unsafe. That's the kind of people we stand up for. For those people, Mr Pechtold, the PVV Group is not picking up its nose. We are proud to stop Islamization. We are proud to ensure that the Netherlands remains a safe and beautiful Dutch country. That's what we fight for. Every day. Here in the Lower House and tomorrow again in North Brabant. And next week in Purmerend and I know wherever. You'll see us everywhere. I tell you, Mr Pechtold, people appreciate that. You'll notice. That great zero of yours will have the result that we will be many, many times greater than D66 ever will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u245	I've been listening to it for a while. Of course, Mr Buma is right. It would adorn Mr Wilders to admit it if he made a mistake. I made a mistake this weekend and just admit it. It would also please Mr Wilders if he said: Mr Buma, you are just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u246	That is the answer I have given 23 times: it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u247	Mr Wilders is only talking about those polls, about the PVV that is getting so big. He says he speaks for the people. But what if his party becomes the biggest? Maybe that's what's gonna happen. Then what does he do with the other part of the people, who 60%, according to Maurice de Hond's poll, think that Mr Wilders is divisive in society? What does he do with those people who do want to receive asylum seekers in the Netherlands? In what way does he ensure that these people are represented? Mr Wilders, you may have your own opinion, you may say what you want, go divinely ahead here, but stop saying that you speak for the whole of the Netherlands, that you are the one representing the Netherlands, because that is nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u248	This is about exactly the same interruption that my colleague put in place in the first place. And I'll give him exactly the same answer. My answer was: I do not pretend to represent everyone. But the people who want more asylum seekers, the people who are going to bring bears and flowers, are already represented by everyone here, from Buma to Klaver, from Mr van de SP to Mr Zijlstra. Those people are represented by everyone. But millions of people, 46%, almost half of the Dutch say "enough is enough," not an asylum seeker. We can't handle it. Those people, half of the Dutch population, are represented here only by the PVV. And that is wrong, that is not something I should be ashamed of, but you, Mr Buma, Mr Zijlstra, Mr Pechtold should be ashamed of. All these people, it's millions of people who find almost no one here who agrees with them. They make fun of them. They're being laughed at. They're called racist when they're not. I'm proud that we represent those people. And I predict that as long as you continue to fool those people and not represent them, we will do so with pride and increasing success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u249	Now, Mr. Wilders, let's deliver. Who here said these people are racists?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u250	Well, maybe not here in this room today, but the people are, also by people from GroenLinks, watching you on Twitter, on the Internet for racist until I know what matters. I'm telling you, they're not. They're normal Dutch people who worry about their daughter, about their wife. They're homosexuals who get chased and beaten up on the streets by people who don't like their culture, their orientation. That's what we import. I think that we should take these people seriously, that we should not be laughing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u251	I hate what's happening. I'm really sorry when people who just worry about what's going on in their street, in their village, in their neighborhood, are called racist. You know what else I'm really sorry about? That many of the colleagues you address here, including myself, are all called Gutmenschen through social media, often also by PVV's. I am not saying that all PVVs do, but it shows that society is very polarizing, that we are facing each other. Not everyone who is concerned is a racist, not everyone who says that we should be hospitable to refugees who come here is a Gutmensch. Mr Wilders, as politicians, we have a responsibility not to make the differences in society too great. We have a responsibility to take the lead to get through these difficult times. What you're doing is trying to turn people against each other. You can't call yourself a leader, can you? You can't be serious about wanting to be the biggest party, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u252	We don't turn anyone against each other. Let me say that first. What we are doing is standing up for all those people who do not feel represented here, for all those people who think that the size of 13,000 asylum seekers per month is a bit full. We have problems in the Netherlands. I mentioned police salaries, care institutions that are closed down, pensions that might be indexed once. That is the problem that we have to deal with. That is why we have been chosen here. We were not elected by the people of Syria, the people of Iraq or the people of Mali, Ethiopia or Eritrea. We were elected by the Dutch people. If we are a true representative of the people, the PVV pretends to be a representative of the people, then we stand up for those people. It is not in the interests of the Netherlands, it is not in the interests of the Dutch people that we bring millions of people to Europe and some of them to the Netherlands unlimited by means of an open border policy. We can't do that. We shouldn't do that. I'll fight for it every day, every day I'm here and in the country, to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u253	I think that most of those people Mr Wilders is now saying are being thrown away as racist are not racist at all. I also think that the vast majority of people, if you talk to them for a moment, are quite willing to take care of people in the Netherlands. However, it is a question of how that happens. The reception must not be too large and spread, people must be properly integrated and there must be intervention if there are incidents. That is also a role that you could take as a representative of the people: try to narrow the differences and see how you can cope with people fleeing war and violence. That is a choice, Mr Wilders. You don't choose to do that. You choose to turn people against each other. You say you don't, but you do. If you set up a resistance to ensure that there are no asylum-seekers' centres, knowing that the borders are not closing, even if the PVV comes into power, then you turn people against each other instead of finding solutions to a problem that we are all facing. Mr Wilders, we are all in this together. It would be a pleasure for you to join in, at least if you pretend to be the biggest. That really requires a little more responsibility than you are now showing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u254	Once again, Madam President, we are not turning anyone against each other. It is too ridiculous for words that Mr Klaver is suggesting this alone. We stand up for millions of Dutch people he abandons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u255	At first it might have been amusing, then it got annoying, but when you said that you were the only one representing the electorate, I was reminded of the conversation I had on Monday with residents of Enschede, who protested strongly against the arrival of the asylum-seekers' centre. Some of them have gone bouncing over the TV footage, with hard spoils about that asylum-seekers' centre. When I asked them, it was a hearty conversation, whether this means that no asylum seeker should be received in the Netherlands, the answer was: "No, of course not. It just shouldn't be here on this scale, not here at this place and not here at this time, but I also think that asylum seekers should just get a place in the Netherlands." This was someone you said you represent. This man, however, had a completely different view of closing the borders from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u256	I don't believe that. There are probably many more people who think that we should close the borders. According to polls, for what they're worth, almost half of the Dutch population thinks so. It's millions of people who do. Mr Samsom, through you, Madam President, they are not refugees. If they were already refugees, they've come through six safe countries and you have to treat them like migrants. Let us assume that someone has genuinely fled from the violence in Syria, that can happen. He came here through six safe countries; Turkey, Greece, I have already mentioned the list a hundred thousand times. So we don't have to let those people in. We can't let those people in. I don't see people like that as refugees. If someone is on the border from Germany to the Netherlands and says he is a refugee, I say he is not. He comes from Germany, a safe country, and must seek his salvation there and not with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u257	The people who vote for you know that very well. They're not stupid. They know very well that there are six countries between Syria and the Netherlands that the refugees have walked through. Yet those people also think that you should eventually receive refugees who have travelled here. The voters of you think so, although not in that large-scale way, sometimes not in that place and sometimes not at that time. Your voters are much smarter and less one-dimensional than you are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u258	It really isn't. I understand you want to make a nice point, but it's not like that. I believe that about 98% or 99% of our voters think, as any research shows, that it is enough and that the borders must be closed. In my opinion, even 30% of the PvdA electorate now thinks so. There are more people in the Labour Party who agree with me than there are people in the PVV who agree with you, please take that from me. Madam President, the Dutch Government sends out an unbridled signal to everyone in the Middle East and Africa: come here, the borders are wide open and we build prefab houses so you can live in them. We may, with the Minister of Social Affairs first, still provide you with a job with the employers. If you get a permanent residence status after a few years, the whole jackpot will play for you. If you are excluded from the boat and do not get permission or license, go into illegality, because even then the VVD will give you bed, bath and bread. If you wait a few more years, illegally and paid by the government, there's always a VVD that gives you a general's pardon. Madam President, mad policy. Crazy policy! And even if they are here with their 80s on the microphone, I will be happy to have a debate every week to repeat this, because this House of Representatives is destroying the Netherlands. This parliament is destroying the Netherlands. This Prime Minister, this government, is doing the same thing. They do not take into account the interests and wishes of millions of Dutch people. I can't send the Lower House home, but I can try to send the Cabinet home by submitting a motion of censure. This will enable what needs to be done, namely an end to the open door policy, an end to the cabinet and a new House of Representatives which, hopefully, will represent the people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is acting against the interests of the Netherlands by not closing the borders for asylum seekers;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1015]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u259	Madam President, thank you for your reply. One of the most commonly used words in this debate is perhaps the word'sober', but that certainly does not refer to today's time span and the number of interruptions. It does make sense what the shelter should look like if it's up to the cabinet. In this respect, the SGP expressed its support for the line set out in the letter. We do not want to encourage a race to the bottom either. It is important that there is decent care, but on the other hand it is also important that the facilities are not so generous as to have a disproportionate appeal to the Netherlands. That is simply a real point, because both sides of the coin matter. It is good to hear that the motion adopted last week by the Chamber for serious work and support in the European context on the surveillance of external borders has the attention of the Cabinet. I hope that it will be well expressed at the European summit as well. Finally, I am tabling a motion underlining the importance of temporary reception. We must do as much justice as possible, precisely in order to maintain and increase support for policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as far as possible, residence permits for asylum are intended to cover foreigners temporarily and to return as soon as the situation in the country of origin so permits;]] [[Whereas the significant increase in the influx of foreigners underlines the importance of temporary residence of foreigners and that the asylum system should provide sufficient space to allow for return within a reasonable period of time;]] [[noting that a fixed-term residence permit is converted into a permanent residence permit after five years if it is not possible to return at that time;]] [[calls on the Government to promote return beyond five years, if the individual circumstances and the situation in the country of origin so permit, and if necessary to recommend adjustments in a European context,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1016]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u260	Mr. Chairman. I thank the directors for their first-term response, but also those who have supported them from all kinds of places in this building. Last week, the question dominated "where's Rutte?" Quite the discussion. Of course, that was a bit faint, because everyone knew that our Prime Minister was participating in an important trade mission in the United States. On the other hand, the discussion also raises an important issue. There is a lot of discussion about refugees in our country. It is a debate, a debate that can, at certain times, polarise quite a lot, both here and in the country. There's trouble. There is also sometimes uncertainty about the approach and how to proceed. I would like to encourage the Prime Minister to take every opportunity to tell the honest story, to take the floor and to play the binding role he can and must play from his position as no one else. We can do that here in this building, but also in the country, of course. With regard to next week's European summit, I would like to put a big line on the Prime Minister's promise that the so-called 'hotspots' should really function. We know that there are all kinds of agreements to get up to six such hotspots, but at the moment only one is active. All the others aren't working yet. Something really has to be done about that. I ask the Prime Minister to make this a top priority in the discussion with his European colleagues. We have also talked a great deal about home care, about the problems with it and about how we can do it better in the future. On this side, I would like to express my appreciation for the work done by the Secretary of State. That work isn't easy. We ask him to take up the small-scale care, on which the Chamber has ruled, as soon as possible. That's good for the support. I appreciate that he has now also made clear agreements regarding the Dutch Team and the return to the original agreements. I urge him to continue to involve the municipal authorities in initiatives to provide shelter, including in order to avoid difficulties in the community. It is important that we now also sometimes take unconventional measures to give the large numbers of refugees a good place. It is very important that it is clear what is at the heart of our foreign policy. That core is: if people are really refugees, we will always try to give them a place. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reception of large numbers of asylum seekers sometimes calls for unconventional measures;]] [[Whereas the adoption of these measures should never prejudice the obligation we have to receive asylum seekers in a humane and just manner;]] [[points out that austerity should never be used as an instrument of foreign policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slob, Mr Klaver, Mr Roemer and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1017]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u261	Mr. Chairman. Mr Slob made a comment on austerity. He said austerity should never be an end in itself. But there is no question of austerity; in my view there is a discrepancy. We shall therefore vote in favour of Mr Klaver's and Mr Slob's motions. During an interrupting debate with Mr Samsom, we talked about existing houses where possible status holders could also be established. In relation to that, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that figures from the COA show that there is a significant shortage of housing in municipalities to accommodate status holders;]] [[Whereas the cabinet is to use assistance in kind to cover, inter alia, housing costs;]] [[Considering that the housing mission of municipalities in the first half of 2016 is at 20,000 and has been estimated at 23,000 for the second half of 2016;]] [[whereas figures from the CBS show 189,000 vacant houses, of which 101,000 are long-term;]] [[calls on the Government to identify, in addition to the construction of temporary housing and the use of office premises, whether temporary or not, status holders can be housed in existing homes which are long-term vacant;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1018]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u262	Madam President. I thank the rulers for their answers. They will be present tomorrow at the European Summit on our behalf. I do not think that this is an easy task, and I sincerely wish them much strength and wisdom. In support of this motion, I shall table three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current continuous influx of asylum seekers is causing increasing problems in many areas;]] [[whereas there is a limit to the reception capacity of the Netherlands, but also of the other European countries;]] [[Whereas this limit will be reached sooner or later;]] [[calls on the government, at the European Summit, to make a substantial commitment to the short-term surveillance of the European external borders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Europe consists of more countries than the European Union;]] [[whereas the flow of refugees towards Europe is therefore not only a problem for the European Union but also for the continent of Europe;]] [[Whereas this means that all European countries must make their contribution, including financially;]] [[calls on the Government, on all occasions, to address all non-EU countries directly or indirectly their part in addressing the refugee problem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1019]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1020]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u263	And my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the countries of origin the picture and possibilities in the Netherlands are presented as too bright;]] [[Whereas this is likely to attract more refugees;]] [[Whereas everything must be done within reasonable limits to contain the flow of refugees;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to organise information on the real possibilities of the Netherlands for refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1021]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u264	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, the German Chancellor, to call on the European Summit to stop its inviting words about refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas countries such as Denmark and Belgium are actively engaged in discouragement in relation to asylum policy;]] [[calls on the Government, following these countries, to launch an informational discouragement campaign in countries of origin and transit countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of asylum seekers are currently entering the Netherlands per week;]] [[calls on the Government to state the maximum number of asylum seekers that it considers the Netherlands can handle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1022]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1023]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1024]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u265	Mr. Chairman. For a long time, the cabinet waited. Too long. Only last Friday a first discussion took place with administrators who have been struggling for a long time with the influx of asylum seekers in their municipality and province. And until this weekend, the flying was going to catch each other between the coalition parties. Finally, prior to this debate, a letter has come up with proposals on how to proceed. The CDA will look open to that. But again today there were remarkable differences. Where the Prime Minister spoke in particular about the restrictions and austerities of reception, we saw a Deputy Prime Minister who spoke mainly about exploiting people's opportunities and the opportunities for refugees. Two so totally different statements about the same problem, as if two Cabinets were talking about refugee policy. These differences mean that the CDA will monitor very closely the content of the plans when they are drawn up. The current situation is not sustainable in the long term. It is our moral obligation as the Netherlands to help war refugees as well as possible. This is perfectly possible with a policy characterised by security, austerity and temporaryity. But it falls or stands with a good performance. It should also be made clear that those who enjoy our hospitality must return to their own country after a war to help build it there. This is also because we know that the current flow of asylum seekers will not be the last. In the future, too, our continent will face displaced people from other parts of the world. Even then, we will be asked to be ready. That is why I supported Mr Van der Staaij's motion, which states that temporaryity is not a question of 'five years and you can always stay', but that temporaryness can also be longer, as long as it is justified to go back and help build a country. Very recently, in recent weeks, the number of refugees reached southern Europe has increased. Also from the Balkans, a safe area, we still see people coming to Western Europe. Germany, where the debate is at least as intense as here, is now in the process of increasing border controls on the south side. We also want to establish transit zones for those refugees who do not cross the border. The position of the CDA is that as long as Europe's external borders are not adequately guarded, and that is not yet the case, we must not escape internal border controls. Hence, finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas surveillance of European internal borders is necessary as long as the surveillance of external borders is not in order;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has established a limited form of mobile border control;]] [[Whereas Germany will strengthen border controls at the southern border and establish transit zones;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with neighbouring countries, to strengthen the Dutch border controls along the lines of the German approach at the southern borders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1025]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u266	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon's debate was a good debate in the sense that several parties have indicated that they see the problems with the flow of refugees and the flow of asylum, in different degrees. Mr Pechtold indicated that he thought it was not so bad; I am just translating it. We have a slightly different picture of this, but let us take the positive from it: many parties have a willingness to think about solutions, through different routes. In addition, austerity as an instrument is widely worn, when I look at it that way. There is a difference of opinion as to whether austerity can be a policy objective; I saw a motion by Mr Slob, for example. I think this is a semantic discussion. For the VVD this is a policy objective, but if there is sobriety without that label, I still like it. I believe that austerity also leads to a deterioration of the influx. Many questions have also been asked about the uncertainty that would exist between the two motions on the housing market, which are likely to be put to the vote this week, one of which is the PvdA and one of the VVD. Mr Slob, for example, spoke about this. I'll tell him I don't think there's any contradiction. If we want to soberly house people in sober accommodations while they still have a right of priority over a rental home, the chances of success are minimal. Why don't you bring up that right of priority when you have those sober accommodations as an alternative? I think the two motions are coming up right away. You have to get rid of the right of priority if you want the housing problem solved. Nor does it make sense to abolish the right of priority without having sober accommodations, because then they have to sleep on the streets and we do not want them to. So I don't think there's a difference. I hope that this will remove the ambiguity. I also heard the CDA express clear support for austerity. That's nicely taken. I think that is the positive outcome of this debate. Mr. Klaver complimented me. I must always be careful with that, but indeed, we are just okay with people who are here, even temporarily, speaking Dutch. It's almost strange that I have to explain, but I do take that for granted. I would also like to congratulate Mr Klaver, because I think he was very clear in his interpretation in the discussion on temporaryity: temporary is temporary, then you have to go back and no excuses about children or jobs. Temporarily temporary, then you have to go back. This debate was largely dominated by a European Council which will take place tomorrow. I'd like to give the cabinet another message, or I'll have two messages. The first concerns Mr Roemer's motion on item No. 1008. It has raised positive feelings for us. I think it is very important that we take care of people who are there. That is actually the essence of the Azmani plan, which you must provide for good care. However, you have to start with good care. I very much agree that we need to make it through the winter, with good food and that sort of thing. So I wholeheartedly support the motion. The second message concerns the hotspots and the government's desire for a permanent system of distribution. We can agree with that, but then it has to be properly designed. Because let's face it, we've now done a redistribution operation. It was necessary to get Europe moving, to put it that way. However, it's actually a crazy denominator. The people of southern Europe whom we must redistribute do not need to be redistributed at all. 'Cause they're already here. They're long gone. If we go to such a system, I say to the cabinet, we must ensure that we do not have the situation in which we have people on the one hand who did not pass a hotspot in southern Europe, but have just walked right through, and on the other hand we still get people through the hotspots. That would be the worst of both worlds. I hope that the cabinet will take care of this and, more importantly, prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-5.u267	Mrs Thieme has signed off on the rest of the debate, so this has ended the second term of office. The cabinet has indicated that it intends to prepare itself for the answers for 10 minutes. For that, I'm suspending the meeting.
