ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome those present in the Chamber and the people in the public gallery, as well as the people who are following this debate elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, RTL News released a confidential report showing that serious criminals from behind bars can continue their criminal trade and walk unhindered and still make new victims. The problem is referred to as urgent, persistent and serious in the investigation. Apparently, the police and the justice system are insufficiently capable of countering this. That can't be the intention. How is it that this investigation did not come to the Chamber, while RTL News received this investigation after a WOB procedure? The Chamber has asked for this investigation before, and it has already been promised. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. This investigation concerns 29 top criminals behind bars. Previous research in 2009 talks about 60 to 70 minutes a year. Does the Secretary of State have any idea of the actual size of the problem? If not, is this information known to the National Detective, who manages the Detective Information Point, the GRIP? I would also like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. An initial investigation report from 2009 is now followed again by a report from June 2013, which we received through RTL Nieuws. I understand there's a task force and a pilot going on right now. I know this Secretary of State well enough to know he's a man of action. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the time for monitoring is now over? For the PvdA it is indigestible that criminals can continue their divine course from the cell. Can the Secretary of State indicate what he's going to do in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Rebel for her questions. Mrs. Rebel uses hard words and a few big words as well. On 15 April 2009, this discussion also took place in the Lower House. I asked the Secretary of State at the time, in a different capacity, when something was going to happen about this subject. There was also an exchange in the Chamber that you should not discuss this in public in the media, but that you should do so in private. This was the result of the report referred to by Mrs Rebel. So reports have been written about it, including the 2013 report on which RTL reports, but something has happened. I will inform you in a moment what measures have been taken, as far as I can tell. They have led to a decrease in the number of people suspected of being affected. Mrs Rebel asks how many minutes this has resulted in. This has resulted in zero minutes of proceedings leading to concrete criminal proceedings. However, it has led to information which has made the behaviour of these persons in detention more difficult. What, for example, have we done in response to developments in 2009? We started exchanging information with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Investigation Office and DJI in 2010 and 2011. Which people are we talking about? Who do you have suspicions with? Then I'm not talking about criminal suspicions, but about information that someone communicates with the outside world, for example. For example, when mobile phones are found during searches in penitentiary facilities, those phones are investigated and who has communicated with whom. Then we can get a better picture of the group. However, more things are happening. The past has also invested in better tracking of mobile phones. There are more advanced hand scanners. Of course, we now also have the 4G network. That wasn't there before. That's what we've been doing. The signals we have received about continued action within the penitentiary institutions or about suspicions that exist on that point have been shared with the National Detectives, the National Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This has led, in a number of cases, to the initiation of investigations, but again, those investigations have not led to convictions for such cases. It's very difficult to get this kind of criminal thing done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	I use harsh words because I'm shocked. We have the 2009 report and an interim report from 2013. In the meantime, we are living in 2015. I find it really indigestible that criminals go from prison to victims. It is also clear from the interim report that they may benefit from privileges they receive within the detention. They're not just using their cell phones, they're using the phone there. I am concerned about that, because it cannot be the intention of criminals behind bars to continue to do so. That's why I use these harsh words. I think it is important for the Secretary of State to say what concrete follow-up the task force and the pilot mentioned will receive. The mid-term report also mentions another problem. There are signals that I would like to stress that it is a matter of facilitating staff members. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he recognizes that statue. If so, how will we act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	The findings in the interim report also refer to facts and circumstances prior to 15 April 2009. That is for the moment when the first debate on this subject has taken place with my predecessor, but that is not the case. If there are signs that prisoners have privileges which bring them into these circumstances, then of course we have promoted and demolished the project. That project is there, among other things, for that reason. If there are signs that people are doing actions within the p.i.If we are going to continue to act, we are also trying to isolate those individuals. That's what's happening right now. There are examples of this at the moment. It is not that we have done nothing since 2009 and that a new report was prepared in 2013. A large number of measures have indeed been taken. There have also been indications regarding staff, but they have not led to criminal convictions of staff. They have sometimes led to disciplinary measures. Sometimes it's very soft signals. They do not lead to a conviction, but to disciplinary action, such as transfers, so that a person belonging to the staff can no longer have contact with a prisoner suspected of such action. In short, many things have happened. The picture that there was a report in 2009 that we discussed in the Chamber and that there is now another report in 2013 and that everyone else has been sitting with their arms on top of each other is bullshit. There is absolutely no question of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	Good to hear it's bullshit. However, I do think that the Chamber should have been informed about this. After all, it is important for the Chamber to know about these measures, so that Members of Parliament are not confronted with a report via RTL News on Saturday evening and then they have to scratch behind their ears because they have not yet been informed about them. So bullshit, wonderful, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State at what point we are finally hearing what measures have been taken and what effect they have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	There's gonna be a final report this summer. On a number of issues, I have mentioned a number of measures that we have taken in recent years; I have also reported some of them and I can report them. A number of measures will be very modest in the communication on this, because it does not seem very useful to me to tell everyone here in public exactly what measures we are taking to combat this type of action. That seems extremely difficult to me. So we may have to consider whether we should inform the Chamber confidentially so that she is aware. That is what I want to do in the final report, because we also have a good overview of the impact at that time. This 2013 report, which has now become public through a WOB request, contains at least a lot of old information and is not fully familiar with the measures we have taken in the meantime. So it's also an outdated story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	It shouldn't be any crazier! There's definitely been a mix of arms. The Chamber just didn't get a report. A lot of measures may have been taken, but the Chamber should have had that report. That's the first fact. The second fact is that the Secretary of State answers the questions with one or two examples. RTL reports on 29 examples, however. So we're missing 27. Can the Secretary of State respond to this, whether confidential or not? The Chamber should at least know that. The Secretary of State said that we discussed this in 2009. My group knows that research; it was about loverboys continuing their practices from prison. Then the Secretary of State cracked hard notes as a Member of Parliament but now as Secretary of State he says: we are doing something. But he'd be unhappy with that, too. So can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of those other cases confidentially and can he share the task force's report with the Chamber as soon as possible so that we can have a proper debate on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	Those are very big words as far as I am concerned, because on 15 April 2009 Mrs Helder's group, together with the then VVD Group, expressed the view that it was precisely in order to counter this that not everything should be discussed in public. The Secretary of State was urged to take measures, to do so in private and not to make everything public. First of all, this. The answer to Mrs Helder's second question is that she can expect the report in the summer. There will be a number of measures and possibilities which I have pointed out in various contacts with the Chamber. For example, you cannot eavesdrop on every phone of every inmate; you sometimes have to have concrete clues. We can't always do that either. There are laws and regulations that oppose this. However, it is good to have that report. Then we can look at the recommendations and see how much support there is in this Chamber, for example, to ensure that prisoners can be bugged on a much wider scale. It is extremely complicated to give concrete examples, also because this may hinder concrete measures. However, we must consider whether this can be done in confidence. I'll look into that; we'll do that this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	In 2009, an excited MP here in this Chamber speaks shame of criminals in prison continuing their criminal activities and demanding high-ranking action. We are now six years away, this Secretary of State has been responsible for this for four years and for two years there has been an analysis report in which a number of measures are announced. This is incomprehensible to my group. The Secretary of State now chooses the flight forward and says it's an interim report. That is also my question. Why has this Chamber never been informed of the fact that there is an interim report and why does it take two years for a bridge to be struck between an interim report and, apparently, now a final report, which does not come until the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	Just not in a high tone in 2009, just in peace of mind. I would recommend that Mr Schouw read the report in the Acts of 15 April 2009. It was precisely then that it was said that this had to be done quietly and in complete secrecy and that the Chamber considered it very important that these measures be taken. There was no greater challenge, I say through you, President, to Mr Schouw, than to start it soon in October 2010. We have been working on this for four years. The fact that a report is produced in 2013 based on facts from before 2009 and which also contains new facts means that you have new insights and that you are also taking new measures. They were taken, too. The most important thing is that the observations we made in 2009 have also led to measures and approaches. There will be a final report this summer. In my view, the urgency of this problem was already clear to the Chamber in 2009. It is important that something is done about this. I wonder what the added value of a 2013 report refers to, among other things, pre-2009 facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	I hear the Labour Party say that it is indigestible that criminals in detention can continue to engage in criminal activities. I also hear the Secretary of State say that it is important that we tackle it. If you really want to have a look at it or criminals continue their criminal activities, you need well-trained staff to be able to monitor that properly. The Secretary of State must agree with the SP. It is indeed this Secretary of State, this Labour Party and this VVD group who, with the demolition plan, have sent away nearly 3,400 well-trained staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u15	How does the Secretary of State intend to monitor the trade and walk of criminals in detention when he sends so many staff out of the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u16	If in 2015 you have 4,500 prisoners less than in 2010 it also seems quite logical to me that you need fewer staff. It also seems to me that Mrs Kooiman should be able to understand that. It seems a pretty simple calculation that you don't need the same amount of staff. Mrs Kooiman's second question was how we monitor people. The system of promotion and degradation can make an important contribution to this. In this respect, the government has not had much support from the SP Group for that system. It is precisely this system that creates the possibility of giving fewer freedoms and more restrictions to people who are working on this kind of thing when there are signals. Especially in cases like this, you have to give people less freedom. You can't do that all the time, because sometimes you have to prove cases. Procedures get broken sometimes. Not only criminal proceedings, but also proceedings before the Criminal and Youth Protection Board. That is the problem we are dealing with. When the SP says, "Oh, gee..."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u18	I notice that the Secretary of State, when my fellow roommates react angry at him, starts to hit the Chamber even harder. I'm sorry about that. Actually, I'm not angry, but I'm very disappointed. Perhaps that would allow the Secretary of State to move in the direction of the Chamber. We recently had a debate in which we indicated that we are concerned about the well-supported system of promotional and degradation and detention phase, because it gives more power to well-trained staff. This is important, but the Secretary of State does not want to address the risks involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u19	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u20	Can the Secretary of State, when he sends that report to the Chamber, explain that part to the Chamber as well? How is he going to prevent individuals, perhaps in a diseased relationship with inmates, from allowing more freedoms than they should if they were passed decisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u21	I say the following to Mrs Van Toorenburg in peace and not at all angry. I tried to understand her question. If we have the report, I will provide it with a policy response. I think it's important that I go into those points. That combination can make sense. I welcome the support of the CDA Group and I am pleased that Mrs Van Toorenburg's group recognises that restrictions on prisoners can indeed complement this whole. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr Schouw is going to put the second question on behalf of his group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u23	My group is absolutely not reassured by the answer given by the Secretary of State. In fact, we still do not understand why this report simply remained in the drawer. The interim report states that 29 top criminals are involved in this way. In 2009, there was talk of 60 to 70 minutes per year. May I draw your attention to the fact that the current problem in prisons is much greater than the number of 29 mentioned in the 2003 report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u24	I think that Mr Schouw is not referring to the 2003 report, but to 2013. We are not talking about minutes, we are talking about reports. There are no minutes at all, that is precisely the point. This information shall not give rise to criminal investigations. If they had, they wouldn't have been successful. The problem has subsided. In 2009, 60 to 70 subjects were mentioned and now 29. I would like to point out once again that the facts and circumstances mentioned in the 2013 report relate to some of the old claims made before 2009. So it's a repeat of moves. I think that the Chamber needs a current story, which states what we have been doing over the last four and a half years. That is why I am happy to say so before the summer of 2015. A number of measures can be mentioned fully in the public domain. They are preventive and work immediately. A number of measures must be considered to ensure that we can inform the Court of Justice confidentially.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-2.u25	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
