ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, and in particular the Foreign Minister. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have had a debate on Venezuela, in particular on the great concerns that exist in the Chamber with regard to Maduro's intentions and the threat that continues to arise from Venezuela, whether economic or migratory flows. In that context and in view of the islands that lie there, Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the situation in Venezuela has deteriorated significantly in recent years and that many Venezuelans have fled the country;]] [[Whereas authorities in Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao have concerns about the possible impact of this on security, migration and tourism;]] [[calls on the government, together with the authorities in Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao, to develop scenarios to deal with these concerns,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u3	Not so long ago, I actually spoke to the main leader of the Venezuelan opposition. He stated that it is extremely important to hear critical sounds from important allies and neighbors of Venezuela in this era. It is important, for example, that they speak out about the opposition leaders who are in prison. In that context, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that dozens of students and some opposition leaders, including Leopoldo Lopez, Daniel Ceballos and Antonio Ledezma, have been arrested and are still in prison during and after the student demonstrations in 2014;]] [[Notes that the next parliamentary elections in Venezuela are scheduled for 6 December 2015;]] [[calls on the Government to call for the release of opposition members and students arrested in the framework of peaceful demonstrations in recent years and without reasonable accusations and to press for the admission of EU or UNASUR observers to the parliamentary elections on 6 December 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Sjoerdsma said, the growing concern about the situation in Venezuela led the Chamber to press for a little intensification here and there. The VVD also does this during this VAO. We have mentioned the increasing number of reports showing that there could be, and perhaps already is, boat migration, of refugees who could go from Venezuela to the islands. It was the question, I think, that Mr Knops said that whether it was Ten Broeke's boats or whether I would see them flying. I am therefore extremely happy to welcome Mr Knops as a co-signator of the motion I am about to read. He looks at me very strangely. That quote probably wasn't his. It was a colleague's. Anyway, I'm glad I got his co-signature. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the crisis in Venezuela has already led to refugee flows and may lead to even greater quantities of refugees;]] [[Notes that the authorities of Aruba and Curaçao do not or hardly record the extent and nature of illegal migration from Venezuela to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom;]] [[noting that the importance of the adoption of preparatory measures is also underlined in Aruba and Curaçao;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the authorities of Aruba and Curaçao to monitor illegal migration and, if necessary, to consider in consultation the role of the Coast Guard Caribbean,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u5	Mr. Chairman. We will never know whether or not it was the boats of Ten Broeke, but at least they were boats. We have discussed Venezuela in general about the crisis in that country and, in particular, its impact on the islands, Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao. The Minister sent a letter prior to the debate in which he outlined a situation that could be described as positive; about a good relationship with Venezuela. In fact, compliments were paid out. In the debate, the Minister sailed more sharply. As far as we are concerned, that is fine, but it is not entirely reassuring. The minister talked about Venezuelans shopping on the islands, whether as a tourist or not, in such a boat. Last week a secret report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs published a very different picture, at least that was reported by the foreign press in Curaçao. The situation in Venezuela is going to have an impact on island economies; on the import of food in Aruba and the oil industry in Curaçao and Bonaire. The Netherlands would also provide a stream of migrants. My question to the Minister is whether this is true. Is the Minister prepared to make that report public? The message was in the newspaper Extra of Curaçao. Are we ready for these kinds of scenarios? Aruba and Curaçao have drawn attention to Venezuela in the UNHCR. According to the Red Cross in Curaçao, Venezuela can become a second Cuba. Something needs to be done, such as training people and looking at where and how to arrange care. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. According to the CDA, the cabinet can't stay on its hands. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that political instability is increasing in Venezuela;]] [[Whereas this also increases the risk of cross-border effects which may affect the Kingdom of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and, if necessary, take and inform the Court of Justice of possible reassuring measures for the territorial integrity and stability of the Lower Wind Islands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u6	Madam President. We discussed the situation in Venezuela on 4 June. On 11 June the general consultation on the Coast Guard took place, in which my colleague of defense also answered questions about Venezuela. On behalf of the government, I repeat that we are vigilant and alert. We discussed this situation in detail in that debate, as Mr Knops also said. Of course, we are keeping a close eye on the matter, just to summarize it briefly. There is, of course, concern about the domestic problems in Venezuela. Earlier this month, I spoke with the Vice-President of Venezuela at the EU-CELAC Summit. Last night I spoke with Venezuela's ambassador in the Netherlands about our mutual relations. I have called for exactly what has been requested by a number of Members, namely a fair trial for members of the opposition and confirmation of the date of the elections, because we take the situation in Venezuela very seriously. I am, of course, in contact with the allies, the United States, the European Union, the Latin American partners and, of course, the Caribbean partners of the Kingdom. That is why the situation in Venezuela was discussed in the last Kingdom consultation on external relations, less than a month ago. I think that the combination of attention, alertness, scenarios and keeping channels open is at the heart of the Dutch government's approach. There is currently no threat to the sovereignty of the Kingdom. Of course, this is monitored continuously. We are prepared for everything so it should also be because it is part of our Kingdom. In this context, I will give my opinion on the motions tabled. The Sjoerdsma/Knops motion in part No. 19 I see as support for policy. As I have indicated in general consultations, the government is closely monitoring the situation in Venezuela. There is no reason for alarmism, I say that again here, but for vigilance and alertness. I am therefore in contact with Aruba and Curaçao as the Kingdom Minister and, of course, also with the Foreign Affairs and Defence Ministers. This is why we visited Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten, to express this. It is, of course, customary for a government to develop and co-ordinate scenarios in such circumstances. That's what's happening; so am I. However, it does not always make sense to disclose such scenarios to the public. In order to monitor the developments, Aruba and Curaçao have set up a task force, consisting of the main public and private players, in close relationship with us. In that light, I consider the motion to support the policy. I am sympathetic to the Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 20. It is precisely because of the importance that the Dutch Government attaches to human rights that I spoke to the Venezuelan ambassador in the Netherlands last night. I had already discussed this with the Vice-President of Venezuela. Those discussions were precisely about the issue at stake, namely fair trial. The monitoring of the European Union is important in this respect. We have emphasized this, as the Chamber knows. It is effective to read properly what is requested in the motion. The motion calls on the government to plead for the release of opposition members and students. This goes against the latest statement by the European Union, the EU's High Representative, and my plea yesterday for fair justice, for which we are going to use these monitors. I think it is important to hold on to the line that Europe and the Netherlands have set up. I refer to Mrs Mogherini's statement on 24 February, the European resolution of 13 March and the fact that a European delegation will be travelling to Venezuela on 19 July to see how political prisoners are treated and whether the process is fair. That's the essence. We must ensure that those witnesses are admitted to Mr López. The European Union has also established a monitoring mechanism. I referred to that again yesterday in the conversation with the ambassador. So I'm dissuading the motion because of the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u7	In normal cases, I would have written down that it is about ensuring a fair trial. There are two reasons why I did not do that in this case. Firstly, I have great doubts whether you can speak of a fair trial in Venezuela. Secondly, last week, I read a statement on behalf of a large number of European countries concerning political prisoners in Azerbaijan, which also requested immediate release. Why should that not also be the right way in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u8	Because, as I said earlier, there are observers now going to these processes through the contacts we have had with Europe, and there must also be a degree of consistency in our policies. That's what I transferred to Venezuela's ambassador yesterday. That also indicates that I think we should, of course, take a critical look at this course of justice, as I do in other cases. Mr Sjoerdsma was right to point that out. It is not like that: the judiciary is fantastic, so we look at that without criticism. On the contrary, I think that the Netherlands, in the context of the European Union, has drawn a clear line with the Vice-Presidents, as I said before. If Mr Sjoerdsma wishes to amend the motion accordingly, I naturally see it as a support for what is important for human rights. I would then like to speak about the motion on item No. 21 by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Knops. It states that "the crisis in Venezuela has already led to refugee flows and may lead to even greater quantities of refugees." I do not recognize that consideration in the facts we know. In that sense, I have a problem with this consideration. Nevertheless, the most important is the operative part. That's what I see as policy support. As is well known, the Minister of Defence in the AO Coast Guard has already made a commitment to gain a better understanding of illegal migration flows from Venezuela to the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. It will report on this in the next annual report of the Coast Guard. I will also discuss with the authorities of Aruba and Curaçao how we can map this migration flow together. By the way, we're already doing that. We asked, of course, what exactly are the figures. The fact that I mentioned those messages does not mean that this is being trivialized. This is one of the movements that we are seeing to a fairly large extent at the moment. There are risks to that, too, but it's true. Moreover, it is not expected that a large flow of refugees will begin. In the case of refugees, it is expected that they will cross national borders. If refugees already go to Curaçao or Aruba, hopefully the number will be very marginal. Nevertheless, we are, of course, in constant consultation with the countries. Prime Minister Asjes himself recently said in the media that according to his analysis no refugee flows are expected and that the immigration service does not report any deviating numbers of Venezuelans on Curaçao. Nevertheless, alertness is important. I have no problem with this motion and I would therefore like to see it as a policy support. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 22 by Mr Knops and Mr Ten Broeke. It states: "Considering that political instability in Venezuela is increasing; whereas it also increases the risk of cross-border consequences" and "calls on the Government to identify and, if necessary, to take and inform the Chamber on possible reassuring measures for the territorial integrity and stability of the Downwind Islands." Frankly, I think this is a rather difficult motion, because this is part of the Kingdom. Of course, the task of the Kingdom Government and the Foreign and Defence Ministers is essentially what is being asked here. Of course, the defence of the Dutch territory and the Kingdom territory is our primary responsibility. The Chamber discussed this with the Secretary of Defense. It is in close contact with the Kingdom's parts. Of course, the Netherlands is prepared for everything. Then let me take the motion as a policy support. That's how I discussed the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u9	I welcome the Minister's assessment of this motion. I actually expected her to be discouraged, given the letter we received earlier. I have asked two more questions to the Minister about a secret report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which would have been leaked. Would the Minister be able to respond to that, and would he like to make that report public? Would he also like to respond to my question about the fact that UNHCR has called attention to Venezuela? The Curaçao Red Cross has also responded to this. I can imagine that the Minister cannot answer that at the moment. I would also be satisfied with a later commitment on this point, preferably before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u10	First of all, I would like to say something about the first point. I believe it's a message in Extra, a Papiament newspaper in Curaçao. That newspaper stated on 15 June that it had a secret report from the State Department. It would describe that a worsening crisis in Venezuela has a serious impact on the ABC islands. The article deals in particular with economic dependence, in particular energy dependence. I believe that the message has attracted the attention of Members of Parliament before. It is impossible for me, from available sources, to find out which report is meant. It may well be that a piece has been made by the Venezuelan task force about everything we are doing at the moment. As I said, once again, if there were a report that they would have, that the Dutch government is looking at different scenarios within the task forces I mentioned. I cannot say much about that, not so much because I would have something to keep secret. I just can't figure out from available sources what report is meant here. That is my answer to the question. I am happy to respond to Mr Knops' second question. I'll provide that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-13.u11	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next week. We will proceed immediately with the next debate.
