ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Our society is ageing. People are getting older and as a result they are also more confronted with the consequences of their last phase of life, which can be stretched out by medical technology. That's nice, but not always for everyone. Some even want freedom to choose death. GroenLinks believes that there should be that possibility. In law, life is the most valuable possession of man. A free society therefore means that you can decide for yourself what to do with that most valuable property. The Dutch Association for a Voluntary End of Life announced Friday that it would want an experiment with the so-called last will pill. This allows people themselves, without intervention or accessory of others, to opt for a worthy, self-chosen end of life. This could solve a number of problems, such as the criminality of suicide aid and euthanasia, and the problem of doctors who do not want or cannot cooperate and then refer them to a doctor who does. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. First of all, is he positive about such an experiment? If that were the case, does he think, secondly, that it should be limited to persons over 75, or could people under 75 be eligible? Thirdly, does such an experiment fit within the current framework of the strict legislation that we have before us? Fourthly, can the Secretary of State say anything about whether the Committee of Wise Men set up by the Cabinet to examine the issue of life completed, has also specifically looked at this option or will it do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last year, the ministers of VWS and V and J set up the Committee of Wise Men. This will come with an opinion on the legal possibilities and social dilemmas of helping people who consider their lives to be complete. That advice is expected to be offered to the ministers of VWS and V and J in January 2016, after which the cabinet will come up with a response and will be offered to the House of Representatives just like the advice. The news report on the experiment with a final will pill is, I understand, part of a new strategy of the NVVE. I understand that it will be published on 20 November. We haven't been able to take notice of that yet. This strategy must therefore clearly be seen as a contribution to the public debate. All I know is the press release. I do not know the new strategy and therefore cannot and will not respond to it. By the way, the news report talks about an experiment, and that brings me to the questions. That term raises some questions in advance anyway, big questions. This does not take due account of the care required in this type of discussion. That is precisely why we have set up this committee with all due care. I do not really have much to say about the age and age at which this should not be allowed. In short, all the more reason to wait for the committee's report. Then we can have this discussion as carefully as possible. That is precisely why we set up this committee and it is therefore appropriate to await the outcome of that committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	Of course, we already knew that this committee of wise men will come forward with a proposal in December. I would like a substantive response from the Secretary of State to this proposal from the NVVE. It can indeed, as the Secretary of State rightly says, be seen as a contribution to an important social debate. I understand very well, of course, that the cabinet has set up this committee to study this carefully, but I hope that in the meantime the thinking will not stand still. After all, this is a matter of principle. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this proposal with the NVVE? He states that he also has questions about the NVVE's proposal. Will he at least ask the Committee of Wise Men to include this proposal in its deliberations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	Nevertheless, I have taken note of a news report and a press release, but not yet of any proposal. Apparently, this will be published on 20 November. I therefore have no knowledge of the substance of any proposal. I am not going to have an opinion on that. Moreover, I do not think it is appropriate to have a separate conversation with all kinds of separate clubs, while we have set up the committee to consider everything carefully. The committee also reads newspapers. It is not appropriate for me to point out separately to the committee, which must reach a judgment in freedom and without burden and without backspoke, on a 'one' plan. Maybe there'll be more. It seems to me right that this club of wise men should be able to weigh in all wisdom the social debate and involve them in its opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	This sounds to me like thinking in the cabinet is still at large. We have this committee of wise men, but at the same time we are dealing with a cabinet of political representatives, with leaders who are here on behalf of the PvdA or the VVD. Then it would be logical to expect them to include any position in this. I will conclude with the question of whether the government's thinking stands still until this committee delivers its opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	The government's thinking has led to this committee being set up. That's one. Secondly, Mrs Voortman asks me to respond to a proposal that we all do not know about. There is a report in the newspaper about an experiment with a final will pill, on which we know no proposal in substance. At least it's premature. The fact that we set up that committee means that we do not want to avoid thinking about this issue, including in society, but rather to facilitate it. However, it is not appropriate to respond to a press release or a news item when we do not even know the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	I think it is extremely sensible for the Secretary of State to respond to this proposal for an experiment. What struck me in the coverage was that it was also said by the NVVE that these resources are easy to obtain from China and that in practice there is no prosecution. It's illegal, but there's no one who's actually cutting you off. Isn't that a problem? In May last year we asked Parliament questions about this. It was said at that time that it was forbidden and that it had to be looked at what could be done about it. Can the Secretary of State encourage us to clarify how in practice we are dealing with the illegal supply of funds from China?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	The question to the committee is twofold: look at the legal possibilities and the social dilemmas associated with suicide aid. There is also the question of what legislation and regulations we have for this and how we can properly enforce the laws and regulations that we now have and which we will have in the future. As far as I am concerned, the legal feet and clamps which undoubtedly belong to this subject are part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	Yeah, that's for the future. But it is about whether there is any action now if an illegal practice is apparently taking place, which the NVVE now says in the press release that it is just possible and that no one is going to hurt you. That's the non-maintainment of the existing situation, isn't it? Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider to what extent there is an offence here, including the Medicines Act and the Law on Economic Crimes, against which action should already be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	Of course I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. If there are acts contrary to laws and regulations, action must be taken against them. Moreover, my impression is that the careful legislation that we have now developed in the Netherlands on this issue also results in very careful decisions being taken as a general rule. Where there is doubt as to whether it has gone well, explicit research will take place. We know a number of examples of this from the past that have been given otherwise; I am not referring to the example given by Mr Van der Staaij. It is true that there is a need to take action against this at the moment when rules are being broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	I am actually very pleased that the Secretary of State is here because we regularly talk about care for the elderly. Tomorrow, for example, we will have another debate on the quality of nursing home care. This Secretary of State's entire policy is aimed at improving the quality of life of older people. We both know that there are many feelings of loneliness and superfluousness. People feel like a cost. We don't want that. Is such a pill, which is discussed and which the NVVE wants, a pill that is given with the permission of the government, the right answer to these questions from the elderly? This oral question may not be a good time to answer this question in detail, but is this contradiction something that the Secretary of State wishes to take into account when the committee will be advising and the cabinet will come up with a position on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	First of all, I think it should always be given to the government to take very good care of the elderly. The point is that older people can be part of society and can continue to participate until they want to. Another discussion can be what individuals think of the quality of their lives and what decisions they want to make about it. However, no distinction should be made on the part of the public authorities. The government must always ensure good care for the elderly, until the end of their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	Your second question, Mrs Dik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	Of course, the government has a duty to provide very good care for our elderly. We also talk about this on a regular basis. My question, however, is whether the provision of such an end-of-life pill can be a part of it. If the government is going to allow this, isn't that contrary to the policy that this Secretary of State has put in place? In fact, no reply has yet been received. Once again, you may not do that in such a little Question Time, but the subject is too big and too vulnerable. Will the Secretary of State at least include this question in the cabinet response to the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	I take the opposite view: it is not for nothing that this committee has been set up to look at the legal possibilities and the social dilemmas. This includes all the questions put by Mrs Dikk. But I can say this in advance: no matter what advice the committee comes up with, it will always be the task of the government, to stay and stay in order to ensure that we have good care for our elders at the time they need it and that it can be provided, regardless of the individual choices that people make. Whatever the advice, the starting point of my policy will always be to take care of the elderly, not only now but also in the future. The point is that older people can participate in society, which we all, including the elderly, have to live with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think the Secretary of State responded very wisely to the questions asked. He also referred to the work of the Committee of Wise Men. It is true, however, as Mr Van der Staaij said, that this kind of pills can also be obtained in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State referred to the fact that we have strict laws and regulations on this matter. My question to the Secretary of State is this: has there been any action against it? Has anyone taken any action, has a pill been taken, has any action been taken at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	I'm not ready for that right now. We can, of course, figure this out. In general, however, I note that we in the Netherlands have fairly strict and strict regulations regarding the admission of medicines and the use of medicines that are not allowed. Where there are violations, I assume that action will be taken against them. I don't have time right now for how many cases that happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mrs Bruins Slot, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	Previously, the program Undercover in the Netherlands showed that you can easily get those kinds of pills. If the Secretary of State does not have that information at the moment, I would like to know from him whether any action has been taken at all by the government and when it was. If that is not the case, I would also like to hear the reason why this does not happen, when people know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	In the cases where it has happened, we will check where it has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	Point of order! When's the letter coming to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr. Chairman. If you will allow me, I would like to discuss with my colleague what is the right time for this. I'll let you know as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	This is far too sensitive a subject for oral Question Time, but I would like to take this opportunity to put a question to the Secretary of State. If that strategy comes out next Friday, will the cabinet give a response?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	No, I don't think so. We have set up a committee, precisely in view of this social debate. I assume that many parties will contribute to that discussion. I do not think it is right that there should be an early cabinet position on an organisation with a position, but that this weighting is very important. We did not set up that committee for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	Does this mean that a response to this point will be taken into account in the cabinet position that is to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	To the committee's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mrs Dijkstra's question is, in fact, implicit in whether you are prepared to include this proposal in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	I think that's premature. An advisory committee has been set up. It will take note of all kinds of proposals from society, from 20 November to perhaps deep in December. The committee weighs up all these proposals and comes to an opinion to the cabinet. The cabinet will take a stand on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. We shall then begin with the swearing-in of a new colleague.
