ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, De Volkskrant reported on a "secret deal" between the Tax Administration and PostNL. But that deal is not so secret, because since 2013 we have been talking about agreements between the Tax Administration and PostNL, for example when the parcel delivery companies wanted better rates and a wild strike broke out in the summer of 2013. We talked about it with Minister Kamp at the time. We discussed this issue with Mr Asscher in March. Then there was a parade. We have also asked a lot of written questions. Something has changed in the situation. The secret of that appointment is that no one understands why the Tax Administration and PostNL make agreements to consider the parcel delivery companies of that company as self-employed in advance. We have often talked about this: PostNL does not have to pay employee contributions. This is a saving of about EUR 15 million a year. And that for a company that made more than 200 million euros a profit last year. The other consequences are much more damaging for parcel delivery workers: no collective agreement, no pension structure, no company doctor, no payment in case of illness, no unemployment if the job is lost. I'm very concerned about the self-employed. These are often young fathers with young children. Because it is a piece of work and because these parcel deliverers do not have a negotiating opportunity, they sometimes have to work 14 hours a day, and also free, to simply deliver those packages. When they ring the doorbell and there is no one at home, they have to deliver that package again, often until eight or nine o'clock in the evening. When they come home, the kids are already in bed. In a country like the Netherlands, it just shouldn't have to. I'm really worried about that. The article even refers to the fact that the self-employed are already taken into account in determining PostNL's rates for the self-employed parcel delivery companies. This is the subject of the Secretary of State for Finance. PostNL simply pockets the self-employed deduction from thesezzp'ers. That self-employed deduction is precisely intended to create a buffer of, perhaps to pay your disability insurance or for your pension building, but PostNL pockets this deduction. At least, according to the people of SubcoPartners who have seen this calculation. My question is as follows: we have discussed it before. The Secretary of State for Finance now has a plan to better maintain the Employment Relations Declaration (VAR). He wrote that to the Chamber on April 20th. That alternative is there. How is it possible and why is it that the Tax Administration can make this appointment with PostNL? He won't say anything about the content, we've had that story, but why...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. The words "secret deal" keep coming back, but we have to do the Tax Administration justice. This is a regular, honourable task of the Tax Administration, namely the implementation of the law. In this case, this means making a distinction between people on permanent employment and those who do not have permanent employment. Those people and also the clients can be assured of this in advance. Anyone can. Someone who starts a bed and breakfast can get security advance from the Tax Office as to what the living quarters are and what the guests' quarters are, and how to split the costs. Large companies can also have certainty when it comes to these kinds of arrangements. The Tax Administration does not make its own rules here, does not deviate from the law, does not have its own balancing frameworks, does not make deals, does not negotiate, but follows the law and case law on the basis of facts and circumstances. Of course, I should not say anything about individual taxpayers. But I always find that story hard to tell and the Chamber also finds it hard to hear, so that's where we find each other. In this case, it is well known that such a security was previously available at PostNL, but is not at the moment. This means that when such a guarantee was in advance, legislation and regulation were followed and now that there is no such guarantee in advance, laws and regulations are also being followed. It's the IRS that has to oversee that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u4	That's a little weird. My next question is who asked for this regulation at the time. Was that the Tax Office itself or was it PostNL? The current laws and regulations that determine when a person is an employee and when not, are still the same. We know from last year, when self-employed people were checked in health care at some point because of the VAR, that all kinds of people who were truly independent under the same conditions were not considered independent. The article clearly states all the conditions under which those parcel delivery workers must work. It quacks like an employee, it looks like an employee, it's an employee! I would like to point out the conditions which the Secretary of State himself mentions in the new alternative to the VAR, the BGL. I can finish the whole list, but I'm sure the chairman won't allow that. Surely we can expect PostNL and all the other seven parcel delivery companies to be unable to make such an appointment with the new sectoral agreements and that these people who simply do daily work for the parcel delivery companies will simply be rehired as employees? According to the new rules of the Secretary of State, this can no longer be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u5	The rules governing who has a permanent employment and who does not and all the rules surrounding the facts and circumstances do not change. Only enforcement changes. Mrs Vos rightly cites the example of AWBZ care in kind. We found ourselves in a different situation in two ways. At that time, the Tax Administration saw little opportunity for independence, but Mrs Vos insisted on it. Now the Tax Administration sees possibilities for independence, but Mrs Vos does not want it. However, they are not the same cases. Legally, it was different. Care was different back then. Ways have been found to make care work a little more the same as the parcel market. Therefore, it became possible for some people to work as self-employed under certain circumstances. That was made possible at the request of the Chamber, after a long search. I cannot, of course, tell you who is asking for a certain guarantee in advance in individual cases. Well, this is always by the law. In principle, both the Tax Administration and the taxpayers benefit from advance security. Uncertainty is never good for anyone. A security in advance also helps the Tax Administration to prevent any fuss afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u6	That is interesting, because I am making that comparison precisely because we in the Chamber were surprised that so many people, under the same rules under which you are regarded as an employee or self-employed person, had to work at once as an employee. On the basis of the same rules, the parcel delivery companies are now regarded as self-employed. Perhaps we will discuss this in a debate, but go ahead with the list of conditions to be met by those parcel delivery workers: a uniform, compulsory working time... Surely that is not an independent one? This is an insult to the self-employed! I hope the Secretary of State agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u7	The specific conditions in the care were very different, because there the quality regulation was in the care that does not apply to the parcel services. It has to be said, however, that AWBZ care in kind was an exception compared to many other sectors. The parcel delivery sector is much more a regular sector. With this cabinet, we have ensured that AWBZ care in kind is more similar to this sector. This means that in the future this kind of security will also be possible in advance, but benefits will come into play: this will in principle become public, while individual taxpayers will not be allowed to do so. It is clear that the model contract gives much more clarity on a tailor-made basis rather than uncertainty for everyone, such as the current VAR. It is also clear that enforcement will improve, that there will be no automatic safeguard and that the risks will no longer be one-sided with the contractor. That is a great good thing, but the regulation of independence and non-self-employment does not change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u8	The Secretary of State is convinced that these agreements are entirely within the law. It seems to me very logical to send these agreements to the Chamber so that we can see for ourselves. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u9	The Secretary of State can't do that, because that's what the law says. Not only PostNL's data on individual taxpayers may not be sent to the Chamber or to anyone else; your and my data may not be sent to anyone else. That's how tax law works. When we get to the point, we all think that this is a good rule. So I can't do what Mrs Voortman asks. What we can do is to put model contracts and model conditions on the website of the Tax Administration in a variety of ways, allowing everyone to openly check what is allowed and what is not allowed and what is not possible and what cannot be done. We will all be there later, because that will be on the website of the Tax Administration, for every sector that comes to an agreement and for every company that concludes a specific agreement and allows publication on the site.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u10	I consider it relevant in this debate to know whether the initiative for this agreement came from PostNL or from the Tax Administration. The same applies to the fact that this agreement is no longer there. Who took the initiative to do so? Would the Secretary of State be willing to answer that question? If he says he shouldn't talk about that, will he contact PostNL and check if he is okay with reporting it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think Mr Van Weyenberg is now asking for the familiar road. He knows the answer to his first question. On his second question, I can say that this has already happened. There has already been contact with PostNL and the Chamber, I think by e-mail, has let us know what they want to say about this. That's up to PostNL and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. That concludes oral Question Time.
