ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. Eight speakers have spoken for this debate. The speaker from the SP has informed me that he can be present at the first term and no longer thereafter. He has also assured me that it is listening to this debate. Thanks for unsubscribing in advance. All eight speakers have six minutes' speaking time. As the first speaker, I give the floor to the applicant for the debate, Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands wants to be the butcher and milkman of Europe. As much meat as possible at the lowest possible cost. You can come to the conclusion yourself: that literally means mass slaughter, every day. In the Netherlands, more than 1 million animals are killed every day. That's an average of 1,000 per minute, day and night, year in, year out. Pigs, calves, chickens, stuffed in crates, are transported hours after hour in cattle cars, often after an hour's journey. Exhausted, stressed and often injured, they have to wait in the slaughterhouse with thousands of other species hours. Pigs are gassed in large groups with CO, because this is cheap and can be done in large numbers. That's done deep underground in cellars, so no one has to hear how the pigs scream in fear of death. When they're finally dead, the bodies roll on the conveyor belt, where with a knife the final death blow is given to the heart. The bodies of the pigs are hanged, sometimes up to 650 pigs per hour, to be slaughtered. The judges don't have five seconds to judge a pig. Who would think that in such an industry with such numbers and such incentives to do as much as possible for as little as possible, the interests of the animal and the interests of public health would be well served by themselves? I can tell you: that will not happen. The result of this massive industry is cheating, fraud, serious animal welfare violations and sick people, because of poop bacteria, salmonella, EHEC and even anthrax in the meat. Banks are said to be too big to fail, too big to fail. From the meat industry we can see that this too big to control is, too large, too massive to be properly controlled, in the interests of animal welfare and public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u3	I once asked Mrs Ouwehand in a debate on dairy farming if she wanted to slow down. I will not repeat those words this afternoon. Mrs Ouwehand, you establish a relationship between anthrax, anthrax and Dutch livestock farming. Explain that to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u4	Reports have been published that anthrax has entered our food chain and I would like to ask the cabinet a question about this. Indeed, it would not be the first time that we have received signals that dangerous substances for people pass through the meat industry on our plate. The report is quite recent and I am very curious to hear what the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Health have to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u5	If Mrs. Ouwehand here on behalf of the Party for Animals would tell a fair story... I just heard her say some bullshit stuff. I won't go into that this afternoon, for now. It is simply not true that Dutch livestock farming and anthrax have been in contact with each other. It was import meat. If she had read the Ministry's letter correctly, she could have seen that in it. So please stop proclaiming falsehoods in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u6	It is well known to me that the CDA is never happy or enthusiastic when the Animal Party sets out what is going on in industry and what impact it has on animal welfare and public health. But as I said, I asked the cabinet about anthrax, anthrax, and we will hear what the cabinet has to say about it. At least the Animal Party is not naive. It is more willing in this industry to say: 'where there is smoke, there is fire' than to say: 'close your eyes, keep walking, for there is nothing going on', which the CDA always chooses as its starting point. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. The conclusions of the Safety Research Council are very tough. Whatever the CDA may think of the sketch the Party for Animals gives here, the Research Council for Security clearly says a few things. Firstly, the meat produced in the Netherlands and the imported meat is not safe. Secondly, the sector does not hesitate to break the law. Thirdly, the self-cleaning capacity of the sector is seriously inadequate and is not suitable for far-reaching private regulation. Fourthly, I look at the CDA: the political decision-making process was not about improving supervision, but about reducing the burden on government and industry. Those conclusions have been drawn by everyone who has a little insight into this sector for a long time. These conclusions call for a radical change, but what is the response of the cabinet? Not the necessary change, but an improvement plan. The cabinet doesn't change anything at all and is behind the facts, with a cloth for bleeding or to speak in the words of the Minister of Health, a dishcloth; if you renew it every day, there is nothing to worry about. However, the sector is not only too large to be controlled; the meat industry also has a far too big a finger in the mouth of politics, which should restrain it. Since 1984 major reorganisations have taken place when the Inspection Service of Waren and the National Inspection Service of Vee and Vlees were merged. The farmers' lobby put pressure on the Ministry of Agriculture to get all the inspections under its wing. This was done in 2003. During the formation of the Balkenende II cabinet, the primary political-administrative responsibility for the VWA of the Ministry of Health went to Agriculture. That ministry gave a licence to the industry in 2005 when the meat inspection was placed with the private company KDS. This cost the government 50 million euros and only led to an increase in the number of meat scandals. Experienced judges had to retire early and were replaced by cheap labour. Cees Veerman, at the time Minister, admitted in 2013 that he feared the independence of NVWA, because he said that in Agriculture export interests quickly went above everything. You'd think the man knew what he was talking about. In human power, the NVWA almost halved: from 3,700 to 2,175 FTEs in ten years. The fact that this tweeper system doesn't work already became apparent in the Q-fever affair. The Van Dijk Committee considered that the VWA then had to be made independent of the two policy departments concerned in order to become a real authority again. The NVWA must therefore return to the hands of VWS, finds the Party for Animals. We can see that the Christian Union is finally seeing this, after it has rejected our proposals earlier. Fortunately, more parties seem to wake up at this point. However, it must go far beyond that. A failing government that consistently refuses to acknowledge its own mistakes is unacceptable. It is therefore time for a parliamentary survey on the monitoring of livestock and meat production. The cabinet's improvement plan is a Band-Aid for bleeding and does nothing about the mass industry that causes these problems. The business community has a paper document in its hands that can still be heavily tampered with. Whistleblowers have informed us that mega abattoirs deal with the announced controls by putting additional staff on the slaughter line and then adjusting the slaughter rate, temporarily, downwards. There's a conflict of interest between the vets. In observing abuses, inspectors are given an official warning because they exceed their powers. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. We asked the Secretary of State in 2011 in an adopted motion to improve the slaughter process in the interests of animal welfare and public health, but that motion has still not been implemented. We would say that a structural reduction in tyre speed should now be the first priority. I'm rounding up. If you really want to reduce the risks in the meat chain, you have to do all the checks unannounced, you have to structurally reduce the tire speed to make sure that it is really possible to check for animal welfare and food safety and make sure that veterinarians, inspectors and inspection assistants are not connected to the meat industry. The government must take responsibility for ensuring that banned substances or residues of veterinary medicinal products do not enter our food.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. Too often too much goes wrong in the processing of fish and meat. That's what the NVWA inspections show. This is evident from investigations by the Security Research Council. This is also apparent from the issues raised by Omroep Gelderland through an appeal to the Public Administration Act. We can see that the reinforced controls of the NVWA are carefully paying off. My group is very happy about that, but a lot is still going wrong. The salmonella outbreak in autumn 2012 occurred at the Greek site of the company Foppen. We have discussed this before. The report of the Research Council for Security states that Foppen is one of the better fish companies in the Netherlands. We have come back from that. However, the consumer still does not know whether the fish he eats is Foppen's or not. Thanks to the disclosure by the Minister of controls at the fishing companies, we know that there is a great deal wrong with these companies. Despite this openness, however, we still do not know which fish is from Foppen and which fish is not. The PvdA doesn't feel that way anymore. Companies are informed and they may have to do a recall. However, consumers are not informed. Only in the case of very serious health risks do there sometimes be a recall. Then consumers are asked to return a particular product to the supermarket. In general, removing such a product from the shelves is sufficient. My group does not think so anymore of this time. The Labour Party wants the fines issued by the NVWA to be made public. In this way, the consumer can actually make a choice. He can decide whether or not to buy such a product. Now the consumer cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u8	Four people have died and more than a thousand have become ill. As early as 2008, I asked the government in a motion for a public inspection of the VWA's files. The NVWA was still called Food and Warenkantoor, without "Dutch." That motion was not supported by the PvdA. For example, I can mention 17 motions in this file. They have never been supported by the PvdA. At some point, however, there are deaths. Everyone wakes up after eight years. I called this seven years ago. Suddenly, the PvdA just takes off with my points. It's some kind of plagiarism. The PvdA also attracts a lot of attention from the press, which the PVV never succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mrs Dikkers, please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u10	No, no, Mr. Chairman. I am concerned about party politics on the backs of animals and humans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u11	What is your question, Mr Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u12	I have observed for eight years that this is happening in the Chamber. I want Mrs. Dikkers to respond to this. Why didn't the PvdA support my sympathetic motion, which would have prevented us from killing? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u13	I understand that Mr Graus is talking about a 2008 motion. I've been in the Chamber since 2010. I do not even know exactly which motions we supported or did not support that have been tabled since 2010. I must therefore remain guilty of Mr Graus' answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u14	Perhaps you could come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u15	I'll check with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u16	I heard Mrs Dikkers say that her group wants fines to be made public. Based on those fines, there are the inspection reports. Wouldn't it be much better just to make all the inspection reports public? Those reports may, of course, result in fines, but I believe that disclosure of those reports would lead to the transparency that we are looking for with each other. Is this what the Labour Party is going to suggest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u17	No, we're proposing that the fines be made public. That's fine, too. Some companies do, too. VION has also made the inspection reports public. Some companies do so on their own. I'm fine with that, and I'm not against that at all. I'd love to. For my group, however, it is important that if a company has really gone wrong, the consumer should be able to know that. This is also the case elsewhere, and I am going to talk about this later in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u18	If we put only the fined companies in the window, it still gets very much the character of naming-and-shaming. If we put all the companies in the shop window, the incentive for companies to simply perform well will be created. One can say: look, the NVWA has visited our company and we have done well. That's a good thing to say. I therefore ask the Labour Party once again whether that is not a much fairer system. In doing so, all the reports will be made public. The consumer can then see for himself what a company does in the field of food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u19	Again, we consider the fine more important than the inspection reports. If a company wants to show that things are going very well, it can put its own inspection report of the NVWA on its own website. I would be very much in favour of that. But if there have been such serious abuses that there is a fine, we would like to share these abuses with consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u20	Does Mrs. Dikkers know the bill Amendment of the Health Act and the Law on Child Welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yes. We have an amendment ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u22	That's good. In the written input of the PvdA Group, she is very critical of the point that you are just touching again. It is asked whether the government can indicate the consequences for those involved in making public etc. That's just what this law says. So you're not telling us anything new today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u23	It's not in the law. Of course, we would very much like to know what the effects of disclosure are. I can very well imagine that the defence of other groups will be to refer to privacy regulations. We want to know exactly what the restrictions are and we very much want them to be made public. The Sinterklaasjournaal has been fined €150,000 for packing paper that had been advertised for. The ACM has issued a fine of eight tonnes for spamming by a company. A company that made the mistake of defiling meat gets away with €1,000. We want to know much more clearly which companies they are. The ACM can do it, the Code Committee can do it, the Media Commissioner can do it, so that should also be possible for the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u24	We have heard a lot in the media about this point of the Labour Party. Is Mrs Dikkers prepared to raise the point just raised by Mrs Dik? How does it view proportionality? Suppose a company is fined once because a mouse walked through the kitchen, how long will it stay on the site?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u25	From the inspection reports of the NVWA I understand that if a mouse is detected in the kitchen, a warning will be issued. After some time a letter will follow, and at best an inspection will be carried out. When the mouse is gone, there will be no penalty. Fines are written out on the basis of repeated serious offences. Then a journey is started with the company concerned; the NVWA no longer awards fines. So it seems to me to be very proportional that it is precisely about the companies that have gone wrong that something has gone wrong. Mrs Lodders must agree with me that consumers must be able to strike a fair balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u26	Of course, because for us the consumer is also very important. But when I go to the AH in my village on Saturday morning, I don't first check which producers sell their products to AH. As a consumer, I want to be able to assume that the food on the shelves is as safe as possible. If something is wrong throughout the production process, there must be an inspection service that responds adequately, intervenes where necessary, retrieves products and informs me as a consumer. Is that fine gonna help? Or should we look at a solid framework for the NVWA, on the basis of which the checks are carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u27	It's not or-or. Of course, the NVWA already has a strong framework: it carries out stricter controls, for which more FTEs have been attracted. The first results are known; it is moving in the right direction. I'm happy about that. In addition, it is very purifying when it is reported at which companies something went wrong. They're pretty sure they don't want to be there, so they make sure they have their business together. Now the chance is low, as is the chance of it being made public. We want to change that so that if you go to the store on Saturday morning, you know it's right. If it's not right, believe me, it's in the paper. I have already mentioned it: if the Sinterklaasjournaal receives a fine from the Media Commissioner for advertising wrapping paper, it is public. I've been extensively informed on the radio about the fact that this wrapping paper was in the shops and that this couldn't be done. A fine of €150,000 has been imposed. If a holding under the code name C12 receives a written warning because salmonella and listeria have been found on the meat, the data are not publicly available. The risks of salmonella infection seem to me to be far greater than the problem with advertising in the Sinterklaasjournaal. I got this from Omroep Gelderland. Paragraph 4, Articles 12h, 12v and 12w of the Act of the Authority Consumer & Market states that administrative sanctions must be made public. We propose that the VWS Minister also include in the Health Act an article that allows the disclosure of names. I have prepared an amendment that will be tabled when the Health Act is on the table, but perhaps the Minister will do so. The Minister has promised an increase in the fines. That commitment has still not been dealt with in the Chamber and I have lost the stage at which it is being dealt with. Can the Minister indicate where this is located and where it is failing? We would like the fines to be built up in accordance with the sanctioning regime of the ACM, related to the turnover of a company. The ACM has imposed a fine of over €800,000 on a company for violating the ban on spams. I already talked about a company with a dangerous salmonella bacteria that was fined €1,050. Spamming must not be allowed, advertising in public service broadcasting must not be allowed, but if people are knowingly put at risk by non-compliance with hygiene rules, the fine seems to me to be a little too low. I urge the Secretary of State to emergency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u28	I'll read you one of the 17 motions in this file. I filed that motion in 2013. Mrs Dikkers was already a member of this Chamber. In that motion on increasing administrative fines, I asked the government to increase the administrative fines in this legislation so that they would be more proportionate to the crime committed. The Labour Party voted against. Then my pants fall off. This is frustrated for years, now there are deaths and suddenly the PvdA is the merciful Sameritaan. The PvdA didn't do no sausage. The voters will take care of her on this, believe me. People aren't stupid. I'll find a reporter one day who wants to bring this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u29	We then voted against this motion because the Minister had promised to amend the fine regime. So it was taken care of. The minister didn't need a motion to make that adjustment. We were enthusiastic about that commitment. I am now asking, on behalf of my group, what is the situation? I thank the Minister for the letter on fish processing. At our request, she made the information public, and we do not know which companies are behind it. Research carried out by the NVWA shows that only 44% of the 399 fish processors in the Netherlands received the green signal. 55% of companies received an orange card and 15% of companies received additional controls. One company got a red card. When will it be enough? When is the red card reason to close a company? It is confusing that the NVWA tightens up the controls, hands out a red card and points to the abuses that are being detected, while the CBL, the food industry, comes to us with the announcement that nothing is going on. Their internal audit reports show nothing at all. That confuses me. Either the NVWA is mosquitoing and sees things that the audits do not see, or the audits are not good because they did not take this out. Where does this go wrong? I am concerned about the scope for business to put its own house in order. I have more confidence in the route through the NVWA than in the routes that follow all those private systems. Following the problems in the meat chain, the Secretary of State established the Food Confidence Task Force. It's populated by men from different sectors. Following a task force, an action plan is generally followed. After that, it became quiet. On the website chainborging.nl I read: "In consultation with the Dutch Food and Service Authority, criteria for private quality systems are established." Then the alarm bells ring with me. I think it is very good that business takes responsibility and designs its own private systems. I also think it is very good that the NVWA is looking at this, but then a foundation that has to agree on what should and should not be, is completely opaque. One of the main pillars of the Ketenborging Foundation is transparency. I e-mailed her about this, too. One is transparent about governance, about what the foundation is about and about the different responsibilities. There is a very nice gentleman from that foundation with whom I am allowed to e-mail and who is really trying very hard to email me back, for which I thank him for listening now, but I cannot get the information I would very much like to receive. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she can tell me about the Ketenborging Foundation. Mr. Chairman. Some companies have already become very transparent and share what goes right and wrong in all openness with the consumer. A company such as VION, where much has gone wrong in the past, recently published the inspection reports allowing consumers to see how they are doing. I think that's brave, and I'd like to have that reported here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u30	Looking at what has happened over the past year and the reports we've received, I have to say that the alarm bells continue to ring. The various letters of the cabinet also state that public health is a priority. If we see that together, my question is whether it would not be wiser to bring the NVWA back under the direction of the VWS ministry. Is that a thought that the Labour Party could imagine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u31	It is a thought that we could imagine, but I would also like to hear the response of the Minister and the Secretary of State. In itself, I think it is a matter for the cabinet where it lays down some things, but I am not unsympathetic about that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u32	I'm glad to hear this. Mrs Dikkers herself also mentioned the case of the fish company Foppen, which raised the question of how long a company can continue to produce and when to intervene. It is precisely here that you see the tension between economic interests and public health interests. I am very pleased with the reaction of the Labour Party. Of course, I do not know how the cabinet is going to react, although I have a hunch about it, but hopefully we will get to talk about this more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u33	I assume that this question was mainly for the cabinet. Then I give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u34	Madam President. Since 2006, the PVV has been advocating both qualitative and quantitative expansion of the NVWA, the former AID and formerly also known as the Food and War Authority. We have always asked for fines relating to the offence and, if necessary, jail time. If a company has killed on its conscience, has been warned many times and has had far too low fines and then does nothing with them, then those responsible within that company should simply go to jail. If you knowingly kill on your conscience, after so many warnings, there's only one thing left: water and bread, prison, end of practice. Those aren't accidents anymore, that just happened knowingly and knowingly. People have deliberately messed with our food. I also asked earlier for companies to be closed down, and that certainly applies to repeaters such as Foppen. Following a warning on food safety, a company should be closed down. Then the red card must be given instead of the orange card ten times first. I would also refer to the situation in 2013 and 2014 as a result of the shocking results. I would also like to express my thanks in this respect to Omroep Gelderland. I know that two girls in that network have worked their asses off, done research, made WOB requests, and so on to get what we didn't manage to do. So compliments on that. As a result of the shocking results and the years of cover-up at the Foppen company, I have tried to ask for debate and tabled motions to tackle both this company and the fraudsters in the meat sector. The strange thing, though, is that these motions just don't make it. That's incomprehensible. Probably that's just because I'm a PVV-tokkie like I'm being treated here in the Chamber, but it's a deep shame. I am a member of the States-General who has reported such things that nobody has done anything with, except the Party for Animals and occasionally GroenLinks, D66 and the Group Bontes/Van Klaveren. In any case, the great masses have never supported us. That is incomprehensible, Mr President. You can have the Acts, so you should keep track of how many times I have been right. They can all call that "grausen" and laugh about it, but there is no journalist who's going to write about it because they know I have a point. If I had been wrong, it would have been in the newspapers long ago. I would therefore like to ask that we close earlier. Now the Minister of Health stated that not she, but the supervisor is about the closure. However, the two rulers such as those sitting here, and they are certainly not the first to be the best, can make sure together that a company closes down faster or at least influences it. I also think that with those more than a thousand sick people, perhaps there are thousands, but I do not know, although I would have liked to have known that too, and at least four dead people, the government and a majority in parliament should have taken action. This can't be happening. This is party politics companies over the back of ignorant people who think they can buy safe food in the Netherlands. The same goes for the animal police. The animal police were also there to relieve the NVWA. Because the NVWA lacked manpower and lack of action, 500 people from the animal police would be involved in monitoring the reports and animal welfare. The NVWA would deal purely and exclusively with veterinary checks and food safety. However, this does not happen because the NVWA must take over the tasks of the animal police, which has also been destroyed by party politics. The PVV no longer wants good companies to suffer from image damage caused by malicious companies. Because that's another thing: our whole country suffers image damage. You also heard it abroad: the Dutch are messing with food! That's why the crooked causers need to be dealt with as hard as they can. The penalty ceiling of €81,000 is something, but it is not related to the suffering. That ceiling has to be raised considerably, and I have tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect. It is possible that the Secretary of State and the Minister of Health can undertake to do so. Given the huge profits these companies make, they continue to risk the relatively low fines. They're literally laughing at us. It turns out they do, because with a warning they don't do anything. They just pull a long nose and think: look at it, we'll pay the fine and we'll just move on. Human lives don't count among these guys either. I've got a motion on part number one. 442 (26991) which I then stopped because the Minister for Health promised, and therefore the government promised, that an AMvB would be facilitated in which the concrete amounts and the systematics would be completed. I want to wait and see, but I may be going to put that motion to the vote again. The same applies to the motion in part No. 443, which concerns the strengthening of NVWA's intervention policy. The Minister for Health promised to strengthen the policy further, and that is why I have retained this motion. I must say, I do have faith in the Minister of Health. It is one of the few competent, reliable and good ministers of this cabinet. That's what I wanted to say. Maybe I'm going to make another request, but hopefully that won't be necessary. I would ask the government to allow the collection of fines imposed on various branches within a company. The various branches are now being stacked up, but I want all of this to be borne by one company so that action can be taken more quickly. I would like to comment briefly on the penultimate motion I referred to. It states that, in the light of the fact that Foppen is regarded by the Dutch Food and War Authority as a normal company, the government requests that the intervention policy of the Dutch Food and War Authority be strengthened, so that companies such as Foppen can be properly identified and addressed, in order to prevent thousands of sick and deadly victims. That's the motion in part No. 443. For now, I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. Because of personal circumstances, our spokesman can't be here. I'll try to replace him as best I can. How safe is our food? A year ago, the Research Council for Security published the report on the risks in the meat chain. That report was harsh: "safety meat is not guaranteed," was the headline of the press release. Government and industry fail to ensure the safety of meat on the shelves. For too many companies, profit too often goes beyond food safety. The hygiene rules during slaughter are not properly observed. The control of imported meat is inadequate and there are not enough instruments to detect fraud with meat. These are harsh conclusions on the meat sector. How does it exist? Consumers should be able to rely on not getting sick of eating meat and fish, the chairman of the Research Council for Safety wrote. Can the consumer rely on this today? Improvement doesn't seem exactly in sight yet. The investigation published yesterday by Omroep Gelderland at eleven meat companies shows that many offences are being dealt with with with a warning. These are meat defiled with poop, too high temperatures, contaminated condensates that land on meat, salmonella and listeria in meat. There's a lot of warning but hardly a fine. There have been 20 warnings of contaminated condensation, but only one fine has been awarded. I ask the rulers the following. 1. Make the NVWA an authority with teeth. Stop warning me endlessly, but give me a big fine. Send the NVWA more often on unannounced inspection visit. Foppe got a fine of only €1,050 times four, but this doesn't mean any deterrent effect? The directors want to raise the penalty ceiling, but is this going to be high enough to make that offense uneconomic? My suggestion would be to impose a fine of 10% of turnover, as we also know in the Competition Act and the Code of Criminal Law. It would be good to join in. 2. Invest in the NVWA. In 2003, 3.478 people worked. Now one in three of these workers is out of business. The Secretary of State is now adding roughly 104 new people, but is she willing to make substantial investments in the NVWA and not just a Band-Aid on the wound? There is not even sufficient capacity for re-inspections. There is sometimes an offence where it is said: solve it within a month, but after that one does not check whether this has actually happened. Are we going to be guaranteed that all the re-inspections will take place from now on? 3. Improve cooperation between investigation services and invest in detection. The SP has said it before: there is a need for intelligent detective capabilities. To detect criminal and gray networks, it is not enough to go to companies with ticking lists. 4. Separation and supervision at NVWA. What are the directors doing to follow this recommendation of the Research Council? 5. Go for maximum transparency. The latter brings me to Foppen. The scandal surrounding salmonella-infected salmon is with 23,000 sick and at least four kill the largest food scandal in the Netherlands. However, we do not get complete openness. Eleven customers of Foppen refused to retrieve the salmon. What are the names? The fact that this scandal was not merely an unfortunate incident but that things were structurally wrong is demonstrated by the fact that a majority of fishing companies fall into the orange category "insufficient'. Do we get the names of those? Foppen falls into the category red companies. Why is a company in the red category allowed to produce food anyway? A majority of farms do not follow the procedures for complying with the hygiene rules. Fish companies do not pay sufficient attention to listeria contamination. This contamination is particularly dangerous for older people, children and pregnant women. As previously with Foppen, it remains that wider in the listeria bacteria sector products are not recalled. Are the rulers going to arrange that there is always a recall action in cases of infection with this bacteria? In the case of food poisoning with salmonella at Foppen, which resulted in four deaths, it took four to five days to recall the infected fish, and this has to be done legally within four hours. Is that four hours a dead letter? How is it guaranteed that the products will be recalled in four hours in the event of a subsequent food calamity? What was our surprise recently? Meat contaminated with anthrax is recalled from businesses but not from consumers. How is that possible? This consumer is not even warned, whereas in roughly half of the cases an anthrax infection is fatal. It cannot be that there is no public health risk for consumers if the same meat is recalled at the same time from companies. According to the rulers, may anthrax-infected meat be on the board at the consumer's premises or not? That is the question we are looking forward to getting an answer to today. Why is anthrax contamination kept secret from consumers? The balance between privacy for businesses and transparency for consumers is missing. Consumers have the right to know whether their food is safe and whether or not they are infected with anthrax, listeria or salmonella. Is the Secretary of State going to focus on maximum transparency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Graus for his condolences for our contribution. Our food has never been so safe, but it is clear that cases of food fraud have affected consumers' confidence in the food chain in recent years. Any sign of shortcomings must be taken very seriously. The CDA Group is concerned about the way in which we now deal with regulation and supervision in the Netherlands. As stated in the report, it is primarily important to improve the safety of meat that public and private parties in the meat chain better fulfil their own responsibilities. The CDA Group is also concerned about the Minister's communication with the Chamber. There is something special in the letter on inspections at fish processing plants. Last month, the Minister said that it is unacceptable that more than half of the fish farms do not meet the requirements. Recently, she wrote that company F. was a normal operating company at the time. My question to the Minister is: didn't company F. belong to the orange companies at the time and these orange companies were under regular supervision? The Minister therefore finds it unacceptable one time, and the other time she speaks of a normal operating company. I would like an explanation from the Minister on this point. We already have a lot of legislation and regulations that prohibit the placing on the market of unsafe food. Fraud, such as forgery of food and other practices that may mislead consumers, is also prohibited. Fraudsters mainly strike where the odds are small and the profits are large. The CDA Group calls on the Cabinet to work at European level to increase the chances of food fraud and to effectively discourage fraudsters. My CDA colleague in the European Parliament, Esther de Lange, has led her food fraud report through the European Parliament by an overwhelming majority. What has the cabinet done with the proposals, which are now European? Is the NVWA going to do less predictable controls? The CDA Group wants more unannounced controls. I have another question for the cabinet. Will sanctions be increased to at least double the illegal profits, and will licences be withdrawn if companies fail repeatedly? Will the role of the FAO European Audit Service be extended? Will the European Member States cooperate better in cross-border cases of food fraud? And what is the state of play regarding the establishment of a register for convicted, fraudulent food businesses? On the one hand, the cabinet says that everything must be left to the market and that it must take responsibility. On the other hand, it is said that everything must be done by the government. It's starting to look like no one feels responsible anymore. It is beginning to appear that a law application is being chosen with great distrust of any form of certification. If this is done, it will lead to rigors and major accidents. That can and must be changed. The CDA has three concrete proposals to further improve the situation in the Netherlands. The first is that all commercial players processing, marketing or storing raw materials, food ingredients or food products must be registered and subject to unannounced controls. If that were not enough, the next step could be to create a heavier authorisation to carry out this work. This is how we know De Nederlandsche Bank, the Dutch Financial Markets Authority, in the financial world. My second proposal is that research laboratories and laboratory staff of companies should be required by law to inform the competent authorities of cases of food fraud. Businesses have a responsibility to buy in responsibly and all companies have to report fraud situations to the authorities as far as the CDA is concerned. My final point is that quality officials should be given more of their own position within companies. They are professionals who, when they see abuses, have to take their own responsibility, or... They need to know when to report anything to the government. In the past, only the organisation was certified, now individuals, quality managers and quality officers should also demonstrate their competence. In short, I want personal certification in the food industry to ensure professional competence. As a CDA group, we are pleased to receive a response from the Secretary of State and the Minister to these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u37	I'm curious about the position of the CDA now. It depends when you ask, but in the past several CDAs have shown that they have a good understanding of this problem. Cees Veerman said in 2013 as former Minister of Agriculture of the CDA: export interests are quickly above all in agriculture. He also said that he feared the independence of the NVWA. Does that mean anything to the CDA group? Has the CDA Group learned anything from other CDA executives, former Minister Verburg of Agriculture and former Minister Klink of Health? At the Van Dijk Committee they had two different stories about the Q fever. Shouldn't we organise a parliamentary inquiry to get the truth out under oath? Should we take the warning of former Minister Cees Veerman seriously and bring the NVWA back to VWS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u38	I am asked a lot of questions in this interruption. I'll try to coordinate them a little bit. We have a lot of people in the CDA. We are therefore the largest member party in the Netherlands. We have most members of all political parties, if I am well informed, and there are many wise people among them. You're quoting a former minister. I see a lot of people watching a fire right now. I'd like to call it the fire inside the NVWA building. Those people are looking at the outside. I think it is important at the moment that we put out the fire first, and we can see that the cabinet is working very hard on that. Can we go faster? That should have been a question you should have asked the Secretary of State. I would like to pass that question on to the cabinet through the chairman. There's a fire, and the cabinet's putting it out. I think it is wise that we should put that fire out first and then discuss with each other how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u39	Interesting. Congratulations on all those members! I also congratulate you on all those wise people within the CDA, but it would be nice if those wise people would also be in charge. Mr Geurts keeps the door open for a more fundamental discussion, but I know my Pappenheimers: when this pig is washed, the CDA goes to the order of the day. Can Mr Geurts tell me whether or not he and his group are seriously open to the possibility of moving the NVWA to VWS? Does he agree with me that a parliamentary inquiry can be a very good way of making sensible decisions for the future once this fire has been put out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr President, Mrs Ouwehand says: wash a pig. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the beginning of her speech. I would advise her to go to a pig slaughter house and see what is really going on there. She said a pig gets stabbed in the heart: bullshit! But that aside. Are we currently in favour of a parliamentary inquiry? No. Mrs Ouwehand's other question was whether there was any discussion with the CDA about a transition. She had already discussed this with the Christian Union and perhaps she will also discuss it with the PvdA spokesperson. We do not want that at the moment, but it may change in the future. Mrs Dikkers of the PvdA Group said it very well: that is what the cabinet is about at the moment. The cabinet is about whether it will be with the Secretary of State or the Minister. Moreover, I do not think that this debate is the most important discussion this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u41	My group thinks it is an important discussion. Mr Geurts is probably well-known with Cees Veerman and he said: it would be very good for the agricultural sector and for the economic interests of agriculture to have a counterpower in the form of an NVWA belonging to the Ministry of Agriculture of the United States of America. I see that the CDA Group is moving the hot potato to the cabinet, but I also want an answer to the question of where the CDA is. What does Mr Geurts think of Mr Veerman's words and is he prepared to take that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u42	There is now a repetition of this, because I think I have already clearly outlined the answer to it. We have many wise people within the CDA. There are people inside the CDA and outside watching a building on fire and shouting from the outside how to fight that fire. I think it's important to let the fire department who's inside do her job. As I said just now in response to an interruption by Mrs Ouwehand, I do not think that is the most important point in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u43	In my view, Mr Geurts means to say that the NVWA is now being put back on the road again. The NVWA has gradually been eroded and we are now going to turn it into an authoritative authority again. That is good, and that supports the Christian Union. Nevertheless, in all these letters it has sent to us, the cabinet writes that food safety is paramount. Then we miss the last step, namely that the NVWA will be fully covered by the VWS ministry? Only then will food safety and public health be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u44	I hope that Mrs Dik-Faber will give her own views in a moment, which I have already heard from the media. I'm looking forward to it. I don't want to increase the pressure any more, but she's actually saying Secretary Dijksma isn't making any sense. She says: it must go to the minister, he will do better. I hope she will explain that even better in her own contribution. At the moment it comes to me as: Secretary of State Dijksma doesn't make any sense and the minister is going to do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mrs Dik, I give you the opportunity to ask a third question, because you have been addressed directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u46	I was explicitly addressed. I do not wish to speak in any negative terms about the commitment of the Secretary of State for EZ. My words were that we are doing very well, under the leadership of this Secretary of State, to restore to the NVWA the position she had and to allow it to be the authority she has always been. I believe, however, that we are missing that last step. That does not affect the commitment of the State Secretary of EZ. The final step is to give the ministry of VWS, with Minister Schippers first, the primary responsibility for the NVWA. I say that with all due respect to the Secretary of State. I don't want to take anything away from her commitment, but I think we should take that last step as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u47	I haven't heard any evidence as to why that last step should be taken. Perhaps Mrs Dik-Faber will give that further justification in her own term. If I don't understand, I'll see if I can interrupt her on that, to get it explained even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u48	I'd like to have a word with you, including for the minutes. Now that there have been deaths, the Christian Union does support the need to increase the power and authority of the NVWA, but in 2014 it did not support a motion from me in this matter. I'd like this to be noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u49	It's listed in the Acts. Thank you, Mr Geurts, for your contribution. I call Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr. Chairman. The debate we are having today on risks in the meat chain was requested a long time ago. Since the application, fraud and, in particular, the role of NVWA have been discussed more often. Let me be clear: fraud and abuses are unacceptable as far as the VVD is concerned and must be dealt with thoroughly, especially when it comes to our food. Food fraud harms consumer confidence and can also harm public health. The report of the Research Council for Security reveals a number of vulnerabilities in this chain. At the end of 2013, the cabinet prepared a plan of approach NVWA, including to improve supervision. In June last year, the Chamber was informed about the steps taken by the Cabinet in response to the report of the Research Council for Security. One of the measures was a significant investment in the expansion of supervisory and enforcement capacity within the NVWA. Soon the Chamber will discuss in detail the functioning of the NVWA and the half-yearly report during an AO NVWA. For now, I think it is important to know what the current state of affairs is. Does the NVWA have sufficient perseverance in the food chain? Is there sufficient clarity as to the framework for monitoring? Is there a risk profile? It is very important for the sector to tackle the rotten apples. As long as we talk about these rotten apples over and over again and they dominate the debate, the good companies will suffer. This must be addressed as quickly as possible, because it also affects consumers. We have talked so many times about the functioning of the NVWA that it seems to me now time for action: the rotten apples out. Fortunately, there is a lot going on in our food chain, but let us work to ensure that consumers can have confidence in it. I have already indicated that the consumer must be able to assume that the meat and the other products in the shops are safe. If this is not the case, the NVWA must intervene. Especially if public health is at risk, products must be recalled. Last week RTL came up with the news that last autumn meat was sold in the Netherlands that might have been infected with anthrax. Miltfire is dangerous and, at worst, people infected with anthrax can die. Although the relevant unsafe meat was recalled by the NVWA from supermarkets, butchers' shops and restaurants, part of the meat had already been sold to consumers. In the meantime, the Chamber has received a letter from the cabinet explaining the situation. However, I note that there has been a lack of clarity in the media as to whether or not the meat may be contaminated. If public health is at stake, it is very important to minimise any risks as quickly as possible. Effective consumer information is an essential part of this. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that, if public health is at stake, good information is required for consumers to minimise any negative effects? Are the NVWA's methodology and assessment framework sufficient to act adequately? Following the salmonella-infected salmon of the company Foppen, the Minister undertook to provide insight into the NVWA's report on the results of the inspections carried out at the various fish chain establishments. The survey shows that half of the companies were given orange code because deviations were observed. One company got code red, because the rules there were structurally not respected. This letter and its explanations raise questions. For an orange traffic light you stop and at red you don't drive any further. How can a company receiving code red continue to produce? Doesn't "red" in this case mean "stop here no further"? How can consumers follow this system? I would like to receive an explanation from the Secretary of State or the Minister on this case. I think that's why I have to be with the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u51	Madam President. Several colleagues have already said that it is an intrusive report that rings alarm bells. I noticed that everyone has responsibility. You don't always see that in cases like this. There were abattoirs who did not approve enough of their own meat and who acted irresponsiblely, customers who relied too much on a paper reality, consumers and supermarkets who wanted to sit for a dime in the first place and an NVWA working on an improvement path that went in the right direction but still has to take steps. We were therefore pleased with the report of the Research Council, as well as with the response of the Minister and the Secretary of State, who take the recommendations seriously. So that's what we support. I think the cabinet is heading in the right direction on this point. I would like to ask the rulers how we can prevent incident policy. Let's face it: if we get our way together and the system works better than it works now, we'll see more incidents if it's okay. Those incidents are already there, but they are still invisible and will come up better. I am a little afraid that we will then have debate on the basis of these incidents, when we should actually find that the system is working better. So how do we distinguish between incident policy and observation: we see the incidents now, fortunately but, we act against them, so the system works and goes in the right direction? I'd like to hear the rulers intrusive about that. I would also like to hear about the question of how food safety is really going. I noticed that the Research Council does not say much about this, because there is much unknown about it. If the privatisation of inspections had led to more insecurity, you should see more infections. The NVWA checks the occurrence of E. coli, campylobacter and salmonella for raw meat in the shelves. However, if you look at the dates of the last ten to fifteen years, I don't think you'll see a disturbing increase. Earlier, you'll see a decrease. I'd like to get a response. Of course, you have to rule out risks as much as possible. At the same time, we want to know how big the problem really is. Is that gonna get a better look at that? In the past, the Productschap voor Vee en Vlees had a monitoring programme for bacteria contamination in slaughterhouses. However, I did not see such figures in the previous state of zoonoses. Shouldn't we better regulate and map that monitoring, not just for this piece but wider? Monitoring is crucial, all the more so since the Research Council underlines that if it is clear what the effects are, companies themselves will take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u52	It must have been my childhood, but I'm always excited by pious talk. I am curious to see how the SGP Group sees its own contribution to the emergence of this situation. I explained in my speech that there was a great deal of pressure to get all the inspections of the meat industry under its own wings. It worked. The SGP supported that back then. The NVWA is almost halved in human power. We see that someone who was responsible for this at the time, Minister Cees Veerman, admits later: you have to be careful, because in agriculture, the export interests quickly go above everything. How does the SGP see its own continuing support for this erosion in retrospect: leave it to the business community itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u53	I can take two points from my contribution; that saves time. I'm worried about two things. The budget of the NVWA has been updated with our support. It took the C5 to pull that off, and we did. As far as we are concerned, that is a first step. I would like to put a question to the directors, given the new facts, given the report of the Research Council: do they think they will come out with this budget? All I see is more tasks going to the NVWA. That's what we're worried about. I still have a whole story about the private inspection services. The core is that a private inspection service can, in my opinion, if it accepts its responsibility, I see the recommendation of the Research Council to call on the private inspection services to do so and if the NVWA exercises sufficient control over it. Both are not happening at the moment. There are gaps in the private inspection services; there is too little control of the private inspection services. The directors wrote in the letter of June last year that they wanted to bring private inspection services under the flag of the public authorities. Later, in December, following the Geurts/Schouw motion, a letter came that leaves that somewhat vague. Let us not throw the child away with the bath water, also because the Research Council is talking about a separation between inspection and supervision. If the NVWA supervises and the inspection services assume their responsibility, then I think there is a good model in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u54	For a party that floats on, among other things, the idea that man is guilty, this confession of guilt is rather thin. The Security Research Council says that political decision-making was not about improving supervision, but about reducing the burden on government and industry. The SGP was there. The SGP allowed that to be applauded, clapped in its hands and now gives the consumer a sweep out of the pan. It would like to be in the first place for a dime, while 70% of what is slaughtered here is exported. I ask the SGP: don't be so pious, put your hands into your own bosom and let us, together with the cabinet, put in place the change that is really needed. This kind of pious talk doesn't solve anything. It's an improvement plan with brushed in the margin. A fundamental change is needed. The Security Research Council talks about the fact that politics should not be so focused on reducing burdens on business. The SGP has been one of the drivers in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u55	Asking a SGP man not to be pious is asking a fish not to swim. I can't. On the basis of the introduction of both the first and the second questions, I note that we need to have a good discussion on Mrs Ouwehand's youth, because there seems to be something left. I think we're gonna get out of there together, even if it might take a few more calls. We fully accept our responsibility and do not place it on any of the parts. I have just started by saying that this responsibility lies with all of us, that the inspection services are inadequate, that the slaughterhouses are inadequate and that the consumer is inadequate. We all have to do it. Mrs. Ouwehand is pulling one thing out. I'm sorry about that, because we have to fix the whole structure. I have just raised a number of points on the NVWA budget and private inspection versus public responsibility using Mrs Ouwehand's interruption, for which I thank you. The next point is the action of the NVWA. We read in the report that the NVWA does not take sufficient action if deficiencies are detected. Of course, that's death in the pot. Everyone understands that. The NVWA understands that, too. That has to do with capacity and with a transition. N.V.W.A.'s gonna have to give us a little bit more chunk. I would like to hear from the rulers how they see it in that priority statement and whether they see sufficient capacity for it, including in budgetary terms. The Board of Inquiry puts the finger on the full cost-covering of fees. The Board states that this affects the independence and impartiality of supervision, especially since the system is completed in such a way that it is charged every 15 minutes. Companies are therefore also critical. They pay and then they think they can decide. The Council notes that regular time-consuming checks or process-retardant interventions are absent because inspectors do not want to charge the companies with the associated costs. Of course it shouldn't be like that. Will the Secretary of State reconsider the cost-covering of fees? Finally, I have two smaller points. Practice has shown that meat in cold stores and freezers, with minimal treatment, only something needs to happen, even if it is only a piece of cutting off, can get a new expiry date. It's supposed to be. I don't think it's the right thing to do. Are these rules being tightened up? The research council didn't look at the cattle feed side. There too there are risks to food safety. The Belgian authorities have previously indicated that the Netherlands is doing much less research into banned substances in animal feed and that there is also much less openness. Do we have enough animal feed in sight? I hope that the recommendations of the Research Council, which we underline and support, and the reaction of the Cabinet to them in this debate, will lead to a structurally better functioning market. Incidents will always be there. They're in every sector. I hope we find them better and that we stimulate people to handle food as safely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr. Chairman. It has been over a century since Rotterdam founded the first watchdog about our food. He had a lot to do: milk was increased with water from the ditch, bread was brought to weight with plaster and coffee contained a lot of brown, but little coffee. From that perspective, we have little to complain about today. We have plenty of food in our country, food that meets all kinds of quality requirements and is also very affordable. Nevertheless, our confidence in food has fallen to a low point, or at least has gotten quite a dent. Consumers want to know what they eat. "Really," "fair" and "authentic" are the words that fit. It is not for nothing that the whole of the Netherlands has been vegetable gardening. We're suspicious of food. We are suspicious because we do not have a view of the production of our food that ends up on our plate from an ever wider perimeter, even outside Europe, and through longer and longer chains. We are distrustful because beef suddenly turns out to be horse meat and scrambled eggs do not come from wild birds at all. There's been a food confidence crisis. We won't be taking food forgery anymore. The report of the Research Council for Safety on the risks in the meat chain gives an unspeakable picture. Where we first thought we were dealing with incidents, the Research Council shows that something is structurally wrong in the meat sector. Fraud is lucrative and the NVWA lacks knowledge and information to combat it effectively. The report of the Research Council is now a year old and good steps have been taken in monitoring. That's what's needed. Research journalist Van Silfhout sketches in his book Uitgebende that the position of the NVWA has slowly been eroded. The slide to EZ and ill-thought-out mergers and cuts have not done the NVWA any good. Percussion and independence have been called into question. I am thinking, for example, of the outbreak of Q fever, in which intervention for too long was actually delayed. I am thinking of Foppen, a company that is allowed to continue to produce red despite many fines and code. That is not to be explained to the consumers, is it? We are now on our way back to make the NVWA again the authoritative institution of the past. That's good. Only, the last step is missing, namely making preparations to bring the NVWA back under the administrative responsibility of VWS, just like until 2003. I say to the cabinet: take the NVWA out of the impossible gap between economic interests and health interests. In many letters, the cabinet writes that public health is paramount. Then the proper positioning of the NVWA is obvious, isn't it? Does the Cabinet share this view of the Christian Union? Why not make public all the inspection reports of the NVWA, making a clear distinction between the administrative errors and cases where food safety is at stake? That is what I discussed in my little debate with Mrs Dikkers. The biggest challenge lies in reducing morale in the meat sector. I quote the inspector-general: 'The limits of the law have become the measure of our food production'. That's a true word, but this is a quote from Selten's lawyer "the madness of having to produce can lead to you sometimes failing." Apparently, the system leaves little room for ethics and morality. This has to change. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? I already know the government's answer: the business community must take this up and agree on it within the Food Confidence Task Force. But tell me honestly: has a culture change really started? Corporate social responsibility, says the cabinet; that is of course very important, but what does the consumer notice? Has confidence actually increased in the past year? Where is the task force's final report anyway? I really doubt that sufficient steps have been taken. Are companies in the food chain really going to appeal to each other for risky behaviour and are they going to report this to NVWA? See first recommendation from the report of the Security Research Council. The exchange of information between companies and between government and business really needs to be improved. I find it worrying that the tracking-and-tracing system is not yet in place. Companies must be able to inform NVWA within four hours of the previous and the next link. Well, that sounds great, but what good is it if a product goes over 12 links before it's in the grocery store? Then you've been 48 hours, with all the consequences. Another quote: "Meat from South American countries, meat that takes twelve steps before it enters our lasagna; why?" This was a sigh of one of our great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great. I went to work a few months ago and heard this anecdote. The story of this In a global market, driven mainly by the lowest cost, food goes over a lot of links, too many links, before it gets on our plate. Origin and product integrity are difficult to monitor in such a long food chain. This could again pose a risk to food safety. The great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great. Has he changed his purchasing policy? There are nice reports and there is a task force, but it is about what is happening in practice. We have no ditch water in our milk and no plaster in our bread. Let's establish that with each other, but what about sneak sugar in pasta sauce, water added to the chicken fillet and plaice replaced by cheaper fish? Food becomes filling and the line between food integrity and food fraud is shiny. In a hundred years, we've learned a lot, but what has changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u57	I had Mrs Dik-Faber speak out first, because I wanted to hear the justification of her view that the front door should be moved. We have already discussed this when she interrupted me. I'm trying to translate it like this. Let's say you have a car that we call NVWA. You've got that car on the highway and you've got plenty of speed, yet the car isn't going fast enough. That's because of the car. The Secretary of State is behind the wheel and there's a minister sitting on the passenger's seat. That's where the minister serves the tomtom. The fraction of the Christian Union is now proposing to stop that car in the middle of the highway. I think it's very dangerous for anyone who's involved in that car on that highway. The Christian Union wants to switch drivers in the middle of the highway. What will change, I ask Mrs Dik-Faber. The passenger becomes the driver and the driver becomes the passenger. What then changes with the control of the NVWA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u58	Let me remain in Mr Geurts's metaphor. A driver change in the middle of the highway is not convenient, but fortunately we have parking spaces and petrol stations everywhere. That's where you can put the car to change the driver. Eventually, you might be at your destination a minute or a minute and a half later. Then what's changed? Then food safety and public health have become really the primary interest in NVWA. Then there will be no need for discussion. I can see that this is not the case at the moment. I mentioned the example of a fishing company and I mentioned the example of Q fever. That last example played a bit longer ago, but for many people it is still topical. In those cases, the NVWA's position was under discussion. I don't want that anymore. The NVWA must make incredibly difficult choices. There is a split there and I want to help the people of NVWA to make clear choices. I think that's gonna take the switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u59	It's always nice when you try to express things in images, because then we get very close together. Mrs Dik-Faber says that you should not do such a change of driver in the middle of the highway. You shouldn't do that on the escape strip; I don't even think that should happen unless there are serious reasons. Mrs Dik-Faber proposes going to a parking lot for that. I come to Mrs Dik from the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u60	You mean Mrs. Dikkers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mrs. Dikkers, yes. Sorry. Fat-Faber, Thikkers: things always go wrong with me, so I apologize in advance. Mrs Dikkers of the PvdA Group says: we must see if this is possible in the event of a cabinet change. He'll be here soon enough. Then we're at a point where the cabinet is about it. That could determine where the NVWA ends up. Please don't start discussing the color of the front door today while the building is on fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u62	There is a major renovation of the building. I see that the renovation is being dealt with vigorously. I also think it's a good idea for the renovation to take place. For that, the Chamber has made additional money available. My group has also supported this. However, we must ensure that the keys to that building are in the right hands. The question of who owns the property should not be discussed. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the owner really is the minister of VWS. She has sent many letters to the Chamber together with the Secretary of State of EZ. I've been going through them all over the last few days. Over and over again I read: "Public health is the guiding principle in this regard." I'm quoting from one of those letters that I have here in front of me right now. I also read that the NVWA must always balance animal welfare, the commercial position, nature conservation and the environment, and public health. But public health is the guiding principle. Well, then it's clear who's going to make this move, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u63	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber now, and in interrupting debates, actually say that public health would not be the guiding principle at the moment. At least that's the conclusion I'm drawing. I am very concerned about that. I have said in my contribution, and I have said before, that public health must always be a guiding principle. That is why, through the President, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for EZ whether public health is leading. I would like to know from Mrs Dik-Faber on the basis of which she states that public health would not now be leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u64	I also have the question of whether public health is a guiding factor. But I would like to put that question not only to the Secretary of State of EZ, but also to the Minister of VWS. I have my doubts about that, just because I see how the past few years have acted. I see a NVWA struggling with the split she's in. I see an NVWA that allows the wrong actions of companies to continue, with risks to public health, because of business interests. The Q fever has been mentioned a few times. I see that there is insufficient rapid intervention because of well-understood economic interests. I understand these economic interests very well, but if we find that public health is really paramount, I can only come to one conclusion. That conclusion doesn't have to be drawn from today to tomorrow, as happened last time, so like a cloud break in clear sky, but let's work towards each other and take steps, so that the NVWA gets back to where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u65	I think we've arrived at the core now. Firstly, we will soon hear from both directors or public health leaders in the functioning of the NVWA and secondly, whether there is an adequate framework within which the NVWA can intervene. In my view, Mrs Dik-Faber and I very much agree that we should give NVWA the tools to move forward in the event of fraud. At the same time, Mrs Dik-Faber quoted a great grunt. I hope that in the coming period I will be able to ask her to stop doing all that extra regulation in the field of animal welfare and all kinds of hobbyism. Let the NVWA really focus on the public health aspect and let us set our priorities there, instead of constantly doing so, as Mrs Dik-Faber's party also participates in generating additional rules, which the NVWA should also monitor. With each other public health on one. What is Mrs Dik-Faber's reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u66	The Christian Union is indeed putting public health on one. I have already argued why I believe that the NVWA should fall under VWS. When it comes to the rules, I would like to refer back to an earlier debate in which I argued that cultural change is the most crucial, especially in the food industry, specifically in the meat sector. This culture change is not realized by law and regulation. I am very curious to know what the VVD Group's answer to the question of how to achieve this cultural change, other than by making a moral appeal to the sector. For laws and regulations are one, but we see that all the laws and regulations we have are being fraudulently dealt with. The inspector-general also warns that the law has become the legislative framework. The Christian Union doesn't want that, and I don't think anyone in this Chamber wants that. We will have to look at how we can place morality at the centre and what we, as representatives of the people, can contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u67	We really need to discuss your question to the VVD Group in the second term. There can be no moral discussion in the Chamber from the seat of the speaker. You should have done that at another time. So I say to Mrs Lodder: the question comes back, but in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mrs. Dik-Faber is laying it down with me. I asked a question to which I would like an answer. The Christian Union is the party that is constantly working on additional regulation. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u69	I don't recognize myself in that image. I have just indicated that I think it is very important that we focus on morality. That is something completely different from extra legislation and regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer in three blocks. In my introduction, I will address the NVWA's intervention policy, the position of the NVWA and the separation of approval and supervision. The second block is about the capacity of the NVWA, the people and the resources. Finally, I come to the responsibility of business. Last year the Chamber received our response to the report of the Research Council for Safety on the risks in the meat chain. I would like to point out that I asked for that report myself. I asked for that report in response to a number of very serious food scandals, which revealed fraud. That, of course, raised the question of what exactly is in our food system. How can we get food confidence back on track? The conclusions of the OVV report were harsh and clear. They have given rise to firm measures, because the system to ensure the safety of meat and fish simply did not work as intended. Private companies and public oversight, which together have to guarantee security, have failed to fulfil their responsibilities. The recommendations therefore underlined the need to invest heavily in NVWA's supervisory and enforcement capacity. This includes putting the organisation in order. The Court has recently received the second progress report of the NVWA's approach plan. This approach is starting to lead to the first results. More inspections have been carried out, resulting in higher compliance in the slaughter sector. However, we are having this debate, Mr Schippers, because we see that some companies have repeatedly spoken of'recidivists', and I think that a good term in this case is a good one because they do not have their affairs in order a little but very not in order. The Minister and I therefore expect more. In our opinion, the NVWA can and should operate more firmly. This also means that these supervisory and sanctioning powers must be used more effectively. I believe that once a company does very well, it is perfectly possible that the NVWA takes a step back. If a company isn't in order, then the NVWA must have a very bad one. That is why the VWS Minister and I have come up with a new and stricter supervisory framework, within which the NVWA can give substance to that point of clearer and more stringent enforcement. I think it is also important to say that we will have to involve the public prosecutor in this. A fundamental review of intervention policy is therefore needed. In this way we can also put an end to the different effects of enforcement policy in the 23 different domains, as it is now the practice within NVWA. The approach used in the meat chain is an example of what you can do. At the same time, we notice that the improvement process in which the NVWA is now in the middle is far-reaching and time-consuming. I can assure the Chamber that its implementation will take a few years. Besides the regular work, it will require a great deal from the NVWA and its employees. Of course, the organisation has not had an easy time in recent years. A lot has happened, and she's had a lot to choose. In addition, every company and every employee in the chain must be aware that the products are ultimately eaten by the consumer and therefore have a responsibility for safety and integrity. So Mr Dijkgraaf rightly said that everyone must take responsibility. You can't take a shit out of that. Nor can that responsibility be passed on. The Court will soon receive the final report from the Food Confidence Task Force. I'll say a little more about that later. We are, of course, committed to an integrated approach to meat fraud. The NVWA does this in close cooperation with the Public Prosecutor, the Special Investigation Service and the relevant supervisors. I will deal with this later on in the light of the questions put. We have established with the Research Council that the current system of inspection and supervision is vulnerable. The effect of reducing the inspection tasks in the public domain will be received by the Chamber for the summer. Although I do not make a proposal today as to what exactly it looks like, I note that everything at all is not an option. It is important to put it this way. The opinion of the Research Council for Safety is that there should be a separation between inspection and supervision. Last year, the Chamber saw that we adopted this opinion. The development of the present system requires, of course, adjustments. It is our intention to send a letter to the Chamber on this matter before the summer. The safeguarding of public health and food safety must not be subject to discussion. For this reason, we have chosen to reduce the inspection tasks in the public domain. That's not easy. This is on top of the major improvement plan that the NVWA is already working on. The Chamber has not made it easy for us either, because it has adopted a motion on the position of the agricultural inspection services. She actually says she wants to keep it the way it is. This brings us to a special question. I'm just gonna leave this dilemma open here so the Chamber can see that we're jigsaws with this. In the field of certification and supervision, besides NVWA, where there is also an internal separation between certification and supervision to be organized, there are inspection services in the field of, for example, plant, animal, organic and dairy, which are still organized privately. At some point, as a driver, you must feel the responsibility to bring some form of clarity into such a system. The Chamber made an advance on that with its motion. I can imagine that she does not see this across the board of the inspection tasks; at least I can accept that. This means that we must work carefully if we are to come up with a solid system that also takes account of everything that is already going on within the NVWA. We must consider what this means, for example, for the organisations. Is it an improvement in the inspection? I have said for a reason that the example of meat inspections shows that everything is going to be a very fragile situation, and then I express myself diplomatically. In other words, we are not yet here, we are working on this and we are coming up with a proposal before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u71	The Secretary of State is right to say that keeping things old is not an option. Thanks and appreciation for that. In my speech, I asked whether it is realistic to expect that there will be sufficient guarantees for proper monitoring of animal welfare and public health. Is it realistic to expect that these values will really be secured by a system in which animals are so massively chased through at such a high rate and in such large numbers under such a high pressure at a low cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u72	In the meat sector there is a lot of discussion about this anyway, because we find that, for example, the price of pork is so low that at some point it is not economically sustainable to leave everything as it is. At the same time, it is a complex matter, because the consumer will have to take responsibility for this, as I say to Mr Dijkgraaf, after the event, by paying the price that suits the product that that consumer literally has on his plate. We can't stop saying that. Meanwhile, if legislation is in place to ensure that food is safe, companies will follow that mission, whether within this system or another system. That's what we're here for. You can call me on that. You mentioned the example of tyre speed at slaughter. I can say that we have seen the NVWA take specific enforcement action in the last period, because it is necessary to take action on this. This also means, for example, that band speeds have been reduced several times. Sometimes companies even shut down for a few days because they just didn't have the place in order. That is the method of intervention which I think we all want to see, because it may be more effective than any fine. Because it's gonna take a lot of time for your company to shut down for a few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u73	That is true, but the Secretary of State will continue to point out an incentive that she does not want to get under control. Where she says that consumers must pay for more quality, I would remind her that 70% of what is slaughtered here in the Netherlands is exported. Those consumers who are eating chicken legs in Germany and other countries that we have sent there, it has no control whatsoever. So I don't think you should use that argument too easily. If the Secretary of State believes that this incentive of "as much as possible for as little money as possible" should disappear, then we still have a little debate to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u74	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u75	My question is, in fact, the following. It's nice that the NVWA is enforcing with regard to chasing with band speeds and that this will come to light but wouldn't we have been helped by structural agreements? How does the Secretary of State react to the sounds of the whistleblowers that it is very obvious with announced checks that the band speed will be reduced and extra people put there? Why doesn't she make the checks by default unannounced? Then you'd better see it through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u76	That's a lot of questions. I'd like to pick up some of them. I've spoken to whistleblowers myself. Following a broadcast by Zembla at the time in which whistleblowers pointed out that too much went wrong in the slaughter process, I also felt that I should literally open my door to people who had something to notice about the slaughter process, also anonymously. I sincerely believe that if something goes wrong in the system, someone must always be safe, including me, to come forward. I agree with you that this means that you also need to invade unannounced more often and also more often ensure that you organise your enforcement tightly. To do all checks unannounced will not be possible because there are also often system checks. That's different than just looking at the practice on the workplace, because then you also look at how the whole company works through the books and in all kinds of other ways. So there will always be a mix of unannounced and announced inspections, but that these unannounced inspections are important and will also have to increase, I very much agree with you. That's what the NVWA's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u77	I think it's getting a little complicated right now because the Secretary of State indicates that the cabinet will be presenting a proposal on approval and supervision before the summer. I look forward to that proposal and would very much like to have the debate on it. I very much welcome the commitment that the cabinet will come up with a stronger supervisory framework, which will also indicate how the NVWA will act within that framework. My group also attaches great importance to the distinction between approval and supervision. Whether it is about meat or other products including perhaps even wooden toys in a toy store, a company is, of course, responsible for delivering a certain quality. We need to call a company on that, too. Surely it can't be that we're going to house the entire primary quality process within a company at NVWA? I do think this is an argument that should play a part in the whole discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u78	Of course, the responsibility that companies have to take on themselves always plays a major role. I'll say something about that later. There must also be a separation within the NVWA of inspection tasks, on the one hand, which the NVWA already has and on the other hand supervision tasks. That really isn't easy. Don't mix up in that. This will be a major task for the organisation. We also note that, for political or social reasons, a choice has been made in the past to lay down some of the inspection tasks at the companies themselves. We have, of course, also seen a number of spicy comments made in the investigatory report on this subject. We will, of course, include them in the proposal that we will be sending to the Chamber later, because it is not for nothing that we have put a star in it with the message that something must be done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u79	So it is very clear that the responsibility of the company must be laid down where it belongs. The NVWA must monitor the quality of the products on this point with unannounced checks, as Mrs Ouwehand and I also find each other very immediately, especially when it comes to food. There we have the public health aspect again. I would like to start that debate on the basis of these ingredients. We shouldn't want to put everything, including the inspection process, at the NVWA, because then I'm sure where we'll end up with the organization. Firstly, it will have to expand enormously. Secondly, it is very doubtful whether we will then be able to take these further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u80	I simply consider this to be the view of the VVD Group, ahead of the debate. I think it would be wise not to go into this further. I have promised that we will send a proposal to the Chamber before the summer. Then, as far as I am concerned, we will have the debate on the whole, with all the aspects that are necessary for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u81	I have a dilemma. In its first sentences, the Secretary of State spoke about a new framework for NVWA. This is prepared by the Secretary of State together with the Minister. A little later she talks about the Geurts/Schouw motion about the plant inspection services. And passerby will be taken with the COKZ and KDS. I'm a little lost because I don't know those chapters. The Secretary of State has also announced that she will bring that up. Is it not wise to stop and continue with the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u82	The Chamber has invited us to speak on this whole subject. Moreover, the reinforced framework for intervention is about something other than the discussion on the separation of approval and supervision and the motion by Mr Geurts and Mr Schouw which was adopted. Those are really two different things. The first one, the Minister, will go into it further in a moment. The question is how to prevent a company from systematically underperforming and the question remains whether, to put it mildly, intervention is taking place. That is what the intervention framework is about. That will be further deepened if Mr Geurts agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u83	It is good that the intervention framework is addressed, because then it becomes a little clearer to me. I place this interruption and with it a dilemma so that the cabinet will not say that it has already informed the Chamber on 1 April 2015 what it intends to do with the COKZ and KDS. I'm getting a story out of here that doesn't really cheer me up, and I don't think that's the point. The Secretary of State is not clear on what exactly is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u84	No, you're absolutely right. I am still not clear on this because we are going to come up with a proposal. That proposal comes, as always, in a letter from the cabinet to the Chamber. This means that at that time we will have a full debate on the separation of approval and supervision, and the consequences that this has for NVWA and for the private inspection companies. We are therefore holding this debate later on the basis of a cabinet proposal. The order is, of course, up to the President and the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u85	In conclusion, I would like to point out that in my view it is a recommendation from the Research Council to at least separate the approval and supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u87	The Research Council is crystal clear about that. I don't think the Research Council's saying you should put it under public ownership or anything. The Research Council doesn't make any statements about private versus public. That's a separate discussion. I understand the Secretary of State in her reasoning, but I'm following another one. However, the core of the discussion is the separation of supervision and inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u88	Yeah, but the trigger was also a solid one, and I'm looking at it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u89	I understand that, but I also hear the Secretary of State say that she weighs what transitions are already there. For me, an important point is that we are moving a lot. If we bring in all kinds of other moves... maybe we can give the sector some time to get things set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u90	We'll consider everything, so that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u91	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mrs Ouwehand and Mrs Dik-Faber said a few words about the position of the NVWA and the political leaders. As has been noted, public health is indeed a priority for this cabinet. When it comes to food safety, VWS and EZ are jointly responsible. We are also both clients for the NVWA. As responsible for food quality, I first look at what consumer safety means. The NVWA is, among other things, legally responsible for monitoring compliance, administrative enforcement and detection of criminal offences. This is laid down in different laws of both VWS and EZ, such as the Warenwet and the Animal Law. NVWA therefore carries out its supervisory tasks on the basis of both VWS and EZ legislation. The ownership, which is formally held by the Minister of EZ, therefore does not affect the supervision. In addition, the NVWA is subject to state supervision. This means that the NVWA, even though it is organised under EZ, has the legal task of ensuring public health on behalf of the Minister of VWS. The Chamber can literally see that too, since the Minister of VWS and I are working together on this dossier. A comparison has just been made with two people sitting in the front of a car. They're both in the front, one as a driver, the other as a passenger. I can assure the Chamber that the Minister and I are on our way at 130 km/h. I also fully agree with Mr Geurts that if you are sitting in a car and you are driving on behalf of the entire Chamber at 130 km/h on a motorway, the Chamber wants us to make it 130 km/h because it is not justified to stand in the middle of the road or somewhere on a turn off. The problem is that the place will literally lie still. For that reason, I see no reason to shift ownership to another department. However, I would like to say the following. I think the essence of the unrest is not so much about the question of who owns it. It is a question of whether, in all its independence, the NVWA can exercise power to do so wherever supervision is to be exercised, regardless of the fact that sometimes economic interests are at stake. The counterpower that is needed is the NVWA itself. In my view, this means that NVWA will indeed not have baby teeth, but sharp teeth. That is the most important guarantee we have to leave this organization as a house and to ensure that business knows that NVWA has a very bad thing to do if it is cheating or ruining things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u93	That metaphor remains very beautiful. At least it wasn't my plea to stop things. That's what I heard the Secretary of State say. I am not very happy with the 130 km/h either, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u94	We're in an electric car!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u95	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u96	I was just about to say that the engine keeps running, but then it doesn't go on with an electric car. Why should the NVWA remain under the Ministry of EZ? If we now feel that public health is primarily important, why should we keep the NVWA under the Ministry of EZ? I just can't imagine that if we get a change of ministry now, things will get turned around so much that we're going to go through all kinds of processes. I think the Secretary of State is doing a very good job repositioning the NVWA. Only my option lacks the last step. So that's not stopping things, but just for a little while putting those last kilometers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u97	I'm just looking at the responsibility I bear in this period. We are now in the process of making sure that the NVWA as an organization gets things back in order. We are now coming up with a strengthened intervention framework. We're in the process of separating tests and surveillance. Mrs Dik has just seen the first start of a debate. However, a lot of water will have to flow to the sea before we have a good proposal in the Chamber. In the meantime, we're hiring people. So there's a lot on the move. I agree with Mr Geurts that priorities must be set. Food safety and public health are not only secured in the cabinet's position, but also in the way it is organized is protected by law. In my view, the ownership of an organisation should never determine whether the statutory tasks carried out by the NVWA on behalf of the Ministry of VWS are already being properly carried out. This means that it is now a matter of priority. What's the first thing that's gonna happen now? Then I prefer to put my energy in order and make the organisation stronger, also because of the justified point of counterpower. I agree with Mr Veerman, and I am not saying that after I resign, I say it now: that counterpower is needed. I'm gonna make sure, in this way, I can assure the Chamber that the NVWA will be the counterpower itself. That's the point. Next, everything around it is not a priority in my eyes at least now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u98	"Not now a priority" means that the Secretary of State does not rule out the fact that, as a final part of this whole repositioning of the NVWA, ownership will be returned to the Ministry of the Interior of VWS. Why is that so important to me now? Because in social opinion the independence of the NVWA is under discussion. That is not for nothing, because there are cases, such as the fish company or the Q fever, where it has been very clear that the NVWA did not have the power or the ability to make the right choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u99	That has nothing to do with the ownership of the NVWA. That has everything to do with the organizational power. This has everything to do with the way in which, for example, the inspection tasks are organised. That has to do with the mindset that you have in your supervision as a enforcing organization. Do you feel cognisant with the company that has a problem, or are you the one who distances at some point and says: here's a line crossed? That's what this is about. I really want to see a NVWA that has the power to make sure companies have their act together. The moment an NVWA inspector comes in, it has to be clear that someone is coming in. That is what the debate is about in the end. In that light, I regret that the discussion is narrowed to the question of ownership, while so many other things are much more important. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Lodders has noted that a lot has been on the agenda since the request for the OVV report. She also says that fraud is unacceptable. What exactly has been the state of play since the report appeared? Does the NVWA have sufficient perseverance? Does one also work with good risk profiles? In the second report of the NVWA, which I sent to the Chamber, you can see that significant progress is being made. This has also been assessed independently. There is better compliance in the slaughter sector. There is also more compliance. That is, of course, important. There are more inspections in the livestock and meat chain, in the crop sector and in the food sector. There's more FTEs. There are smaller teams at the NVWA. There have been improvements in the ICT system. We're working on new inspection methods. The NVWA has indeed made risk analyses. That started in the red meat chain. Mrs Lodder also said that rotten apples must be removed and that consumers must have confidence. This is in line with the NVWA's improvement plan, which maintains more risk-oriented and cooperates more. I mentioned the Public Prosecutor's Office recently, but there's also working with others to get a better idea of the rotten apples in the chain. Where are those rotten apples? It is fundamental that I share with Mrs Lodder's report that the business community itself is taking this up. In the words of Inspector General Paul, I say the following. It's not about you thinking, there's a law, and as long as I don't get caught, it's okay. As a company, you can live by yourself instead of just making a risk analysis with regard to how likely you are to run into something. I think a lot of companies are doing very well and those few rotten apples that think like I just said ruin it for the rest. That is why it is important to organise private chain liability, not as an alternative to supervision in the public domain, but to show that one is willing to push rotten apples out of the chain independently. I think it is high time that the meat sector itself took this up. We really have to do that, but it is not happening at the moment, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u100	When I listen to the Secretary of State in this way, I hear that the ball is dropped by the business community. I think that business certainly has a responsibility in this respect. I note that a lot of food is happily safe on the shelves. That's why I think it's necessary to deal with those rotten apples. I know what happened in the past few years. I think the Secretary of State also knows that it is very close to my heart that the NVWA process is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u101	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u102	My question is: what has actually been done to tackle the rotten apples?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u103	I have just mentioned a number of examples: shutting down businesses and shutting down the band, for example at slaughterhouses. We will, of course, have to do more on that point. For this reason, we have found that, within the framework of intervention, we need to consider how these rotten apples can be dealt with most effectively. Minister Schippers and I will also come to the Chamber with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u104	To conclude, I think we should stay away from all kinds of small measures. More stringent measures must be taken when a company is willingly and knowingly compromising food quality. I welcome the new balancing framework. I hope that this framework will provide somethin'. Rotten apples must be removed so that the sector can produce in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u105	Sure. Through you, I say to Mr Graus, who has advocated this before, that we are going to do so. The Minister and I have both announced that we are going to raise the fines. We want the net to close to the people who are not in good faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u106	I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment. There are also people who knowingly and knowingly have killed on their consciences because they have been warned a thousand times. I believe that prison sentences should also be possible in such cases. I know that these leaders are not about this, but certainly the Minister of Health can get the Minister of Security and Justice on his jacket when they are on the Council of Ministers. I'm saying that because there really must be prison sentences for those kind of guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u107	The case you mention will be dealt with by the Minister in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand has asked about conflicts of interest with the auditors. She was right to say that inspectors should be independent. In this context, she specifically mentioned QLL, but QLL has since been withdrawn. Because we're getting the inspections back at the abattoirs. I have just said a few things about how we want to deal with the separation of approval and supervision in future. That's coming your way. Mr Geurts said that we also need to increase the chances of catching up at European level and that there should be much more transparency between Member States about companies that have run into difficulties. I called that a blacklist system myself. That point has been inserted. There is a European Food Network and there is a five-point Commission plan calling for greater cooperation between Member States and between Member States' services. Finally, there will be cooperation with Europol and Eurojust. In this context, we are currently working on improvements, new legislation on controls and European sampling plans. We're all doing this to increase the odds of getting caught. What about that, also by me, highly desirable EU register? I discussed it with the European Commission. The good news is that there is a great deal of sympathy for the proposal. I was pleased to see that it was included in the plan of MEP Esther de Lange. It is, however, a legally complex issue. The Commission's Justice DG is working on this and will examine whether it can be developed. The Commission has indicated that it will come forward with proposals. The European Parliament's report focused primarily on the European Commission. Many of the proposals put forward by MEP De Lange are also ordinary cabinet policy in the Netherlands, which means that we are promoting it in the Agriculture Council. We are calling for attention to be paid to this and I have just said something about the partnerships in which we do this. The budget of the NVWA has been substantially increased. Additional auditors have been recruited and in the second progress report you can see that a total of 101 additional FTEs have been organised in 2014, funded by both EZ and VWS. This gives the NVWA the opportunity to function better. I would add that it is indeed necessary to increase the capacity of detectives. That is in the proposal on which the NVWA is currently working. That proposal increases the capacity of the investigation and strengthens cooperation with other services. Mr Dijkgraaf asked if we have enough pictures of the animal feed. It is true that there is nothing about this in the report of the Research Council. The improvement plan that the NVWA is currently implementing applies to all domains under the supervision of the NVWA. This means that it also covers controls on animal feed. For example, the Buro of the NVWA covers the feed side of the chain; so we certainly have attention to this. I have just said a few things about the budget. The question was whether we'd come to that. We have chosen to invest heavily in increasing NVWA's capacity for supervision and enforcement in a financially difficult time. It is structuralally 33 million and, occasionally, 34 million. Whether that is sufficient will have to be proved. We see that there is a large amount of tasks. I very much agree with Mrs Lodder that we should keep focus. There are big changes. We are in annual conversation with the NVWA to see what the tasks to be carried out will be in the coming year and what exactly is the financial situation. Mr Dijkgraaf has drawn attention to the fees for business. He also asked if we would like to reverse it. The simplest answer to that last question is no. That proposal was here and I think it was finally accepted by the Chamber. At this time, in which everyone makes their contribution, we can also ask from the business community something. The last point brings me to business on its own; the task force has been closed at the beginning of this year and we will be given a final report in the near future. The necessary steps have been taken, but basically, of course, I have just said that we would also be prepared to organise private chain liability among ourselves. This will therefore have to be implemented. The meat sector must take that up and you can see that it is possible, because the dairy sector has just done it and it is working. The code of conduct that we are also working on can, of course, also be a very good first step. Mrs Dikkers was somewhat critical of the task force, at least that is how I understood her. That was between the lines, but I know her a little bit. It's not like the NVWA is out of the picture once there are private quality systems. It seems very important to me to say that. Those quality systems are assessed by NVWA and ultimately "accepted'. When it comes to organising risk-based supervision, the NVWA can take this into account. So you also know that people who aren't connected to a private quality system need to keep an extra eye on the free boys, to say the least. Such a private quality system is certainly important in this respect. In my opinion, the Ketenborging Foundation has only the role to play in publishing the results. So it has no substantive role in assessing what these quality systems look like. The foundation manages a website, indicating which systems have been accepted by the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u108	The Secretary of State says the free boys are in the picture before because they don't have a private system. Now we have companies like Foppe, whose supermarkets say: we've been close to it and we don't see a red card. The NVWA did see a red card. That is a quality system which the Secretary of State says is a private system, so we need to keep less supervision of it, at least we need to be less on top of it, because that is what the sector itself regulates. Yet there is a difference between what they discover and what the NVWA discovers. I'm a little bit in doubt about that, can I tell you, because what do you have to rely on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u109	To NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u110	If we still have faith in the NVWA, it would be a good thing if we had a little less confidence in those private systems, because they do not seem to achieve the same thing as our good old NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u111	For this reason, it is always important for the supervisor to play his role fully. Of course, you can take private quality systems into account, but it's not a 100% guarantee and you will ultimately have to determine where your targets are based on risk analyses throughout the chain. That can sometimes be in those systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u112	The secretary of state probably forgot to ask me a question. As long as the NVWA is still under the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, I ask her to consider how we can allow for the accumulation of fines. I literally asked you that. The fines are now handed out per location, but in the case of the same offence in several locations there is no legal possibility to stack these fines. That's what I said in my first term. Is it possible to stack such fines so that someone can be dealt with more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u113	I think it would be a good idea to include this subject in the intervention framework. We need to look at the possibilities for recidivists, Mr Graus and I, too, have lost our sight of ensuring that they are both warned and caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. As far as food safety is concerned, meat and fish are always critical products. The responsibility that business has to take here, as well as the function of supervision and enforcement, is crucial. In my opinion, one thing is clear when reading the report with the NVWA inspection results at the fishing companies: this must and will be better. The fact that there are shortcomings in more than half of these companies is far below any measure. This case shows that fishing companies do not take sufficient responsibility for ensuring food safety. That's unacceptable. Compliance in this industry is insufficient and really needs to be improved. In addition, it is not acceptable for companies to continue to be able to commit multiple offences over a longer period of time. The NVWA should not be seen as a consultancy firm, but as a enforcing authority. Although, of course, measures must be proportionate and legally sustainable, companies cannot be structuralally and for years not complying with the rules. Businesses that are in breach must be dealt with and more stringent measures must be taken in the event of structural deficiencies rather than now. That could be a fine, but it could also be a suspension or, as the Secretary of State said, the closure of the company or assembly line, closure and criminal law cases. We come from a time of austerity, of an approach and culture of too much trust and too little enforcement. The tide has to turn now. With the plan of action put in place, we are working very hard to improve the organisation. But I expect more: I think that the NVWA should operate much more firmly and that its supervisory and sanctioning powers should be used more effectively. And yes, as the Secretary of State said, if a company does well, the NVWA takes a step back, but if you don't have your company in order, then the NVWA gives you a very bad one. That's how it's gotta be. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and I therefore come up with a new and stricter supervisory framework, in which the NVWA implements clearer and more stringent enforcement. As has already been said, we will explicitly involve the prosecution in this. A fundamental review of intervention policy is urgently needed. This should put an end to the different effects of enforcement policy in the 23 different domains as is currently practice within the NVWA. Of course, you have to do this in a clear, clear and transparent way, so that companies know where they stand. Before the summer, the Secretary of State and I will be coming to the Chamber with this supervisory framework. I come to speak about the interpretation with colours of the inspection results by the NVWA. At least it's very confusing. I must say, however, that it was an internal system, which has now become an external system. For the Room and for me, red means stop, ho, no further. That's what that color tells us. Then there can be no nuances: light red, medium red and dark red. That's not workable. It is the internal working method, which, however, leads to a great deal of confusion externally. I therefore asked the NVWA to revise that method. In short, with Secretary of State Dijksma, I asked the NVWA to work with priority on this review of intervention policy and of colour systems within the framework to be established by us. If legal frameworks are an obstacle, we will, of course, take a serious look at them. As far as I am concerned, this reset also includes greater transparency. The analysis results of the fish farms have been made public anonymised. The report is an analysis of the inspection results of all fish farms. No individual inspection results have yet been presented, as this requires more extensive administrative preparation by the NVWA. The process must be carried out legally correctly and the presentation must be clear and unambiguous. In the letter of 4 March last. I indicated that this year the individual inspection data of the fish auction, with the names of the companies, will be made public and the results of the fish processing companies in 2016. I attach great importance to rapid and broad transparency. At the moment, the amendment of the Health Act to regulate this further is to be dealt with in the House of Representatives. The Chamber has asked a whole package of questions about it. We are now very busy answering all these questions so that we can proceed quickly with that law. Once we have passed that law, we can really become much more transparent and publish much more in name and precise by company and by inspection reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u115	I hear the Health Minister say "before the summer." That means before 21 June and then I am satisfied, as long as it is not just before the summer recess. The point is that if there is anything in it that we still want to debate, we can deal with it before the summer recess. I think that's nice to the relatives of the victims, too. Serious cases have taken place. That is why we should not talk about the summer recess, because then there will be budgetary treatment again and you name it all. The point is that we may be able to talk about it before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u116	We are doing our best, but it is a supervisory framework. A supervisory framework is not common in the NVWA. For example, at the IGZ we create a supervisory framework, not yet at the NVWA. There are 23 domains, all with different monitoring and intervention frameworks. It must be made into a single framework that will give the NVWA something back to the good, but rotten apples must be tackled hard. We're gonna do our best, but I can't promise yet. I see everyone watching us make it. We shall do our best and inform the Chamber accordingly. In the Chamber there is also a legislative proposal to amend the Warenwet, with a substantial adjustment of the fine ceiling. That was up to €4,500 and it will be €81,000. Several speakers have asked me to make haste with that, but it is up to the Chamber to order it. It was on the list at the beginning of January, but it's still on the list. I hope we can arrange that. Then we can talk about it, the sooner, the better as far as I am concerned. Then we can work on it. Mr Graus said that he had tabled a motion on this matter. I'll wait for the Chamber to act and I'll be happy to discuss it here. Then we can raise these fines considerably and make them dependent on turnover. A percentage of the turnover of a large company will have a greater impact on that company than that €4,500. In short, there is work to be done. The NVWA uses more capacity at the fishing companies. The plan of action has agreed on an increase of 25%, from seven to nine inspectors. More eyes contribute to risk-driven supervision, so we also need to make results from supervision more public. The amendment of the Health Act is about that. Intervention policy must be fundamentally reviewed. The general supervisory framework will come to the Chamber for the summer. The NVWA must be able to publish the information in a simple and correct manner. This is also the subject of a legislative proposal. It is a big package and it will be very timely if we introduce it. I want to follow this closely. That is why I have an impact assessment carried out so that we can see whether the actions mentioned will lead to the NVWA becoming that strong enforcement authority again. I would also like to say that that is not the least important thing to call on industry to take on its own responsibility. Of course we can watch ourselves completely insane and we can double the NVWA and make it strict, stricter, strict, but it starts with the company. The company has the responsibility. I am very impressed by the remark that morality also plays a role here. We can make laws with each other until we weigh oneself, but in the end it's about morality. The morals shouldn't be that you don't want to look up the boundaries of the law to see if you can just make a profit on the edge, but that you operate well within what we find acceptable to each other. I've been asked questions about the anthrax, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u117	I hesitated with the Secretary of State for a while, but I would like to ask the Minister how the cabinet sees it. I get the call to the companies, but then what? Is the call for them to behave a little better, or is there any further action by the cabinet to ensure that this is done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u118	They are primarily responsible. We are here to tell you what we all do with plans of action. The NVWA is working hard on the improvement plan. We come with a fine regime that is greatly increased, from €4,500 to €81,000 or €82,000. Those are really tough measures. We can double all this in men and in fines, but in the end it is with those companies. What we can do is to ensure that supervision is in order and that it is properly arranged. However, let us be clear: it starts with these companies. They must ensure that their products are correct, that they comply with the laws and regulations. They must also have intrinsically the motivation to deliver good products.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u119	I get it. It's hard. Cultural change in the sector itself is not something that we are dealing with here in The Hague. Would it be an idea if the cabinet stopped saying that a piece of meat produced in the Netherlands is a good piece of meat? That's what former rulers used to do. In fact, I do not think that you are waking up to such a sector. You also do not wake the consumers, whom the EZ Secretary of State very much wants them to pay a little more for their meat. I share that with her, but of course people are not shaken up if we continue to pretend that what we produce in the Netherlands is always fine and as if it is a sector we should be proud of. Maybe the cabinet can adjust its tone in that way too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u120	Together with the Secretary of State, I have established and attended the Food Confidence Task Force. That's where the business community sits, the producers and those who sell it in the supermarket. The whole chain sits there watching how the people who are not doing well, the companies that are not doing well, can be squeezed out of the chain. They see that as their responsibility, and I'm okay with that. It's their responsibility, too. Just as well as it is our responsibility to organise supervision properly. That is the way to appeal to the sector itself to get their act together, as the Secretary of State said. I think that's quite right, that we radiate that with each other. When it comes to food safety, what you do is also important. I've been the minister of dishcloths for a few weeks anyway. By the way, the message was that almost half of the food infections occur in our own kitchen. I am sorry that this has come to light a little less because of those dish wipes, because it is. We all have to do it. Mr Dijkgraaf rightly said that everyone has their own role. Of course, we all have to bear that morality in mind, that we pay a little more when animal welfare is progressing and that we make sure that producers who do not do their job properly get out of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u121	I need a little more clarity on one point. The Minister said the Health Act is being amended. Does that change lead the NVWA to publish all inspection reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u122	Yes, that also applies to Mrs Dikkers' request, who asked whether it could be published by name. Yeah, you could if that Health Act were passed. Can the fine reports be made public? Yeah, you can do that through the law if you take it like that. So there is a whole range of publicity that you can realize through that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u123	Can it be made public or is it made public? Will it then be made public in such a way that consumers will benefit? We have just seen together that the internal system is not really easy for consumers to understand. So that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u124	That is what we really need to talk about when we deal with the legislative proposal. We talked about the traffic lights system. At this point, we have, as you know, piloted ahead of that amendment of the Health Act. That's what we did with traffic lights. It has become clear that this system does not give us the clarity we want. So we're still looking at the shape: do you attach colors to it or anything else? However, the issue of public access, even in the sense that you know which company is involved, is obvious. You have a whole set of tools, including the inspection reports. We can discuss this further in detail when we deal with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u126	Cows with anthrax are sick, really sick. The two cows slaughtered in Poland on 19 September 2014 were inspected before and after slaughter and were not sick. Eight days later, anthrax was found on the holding of origin, in Slovakia. The chance that the slaughtered cows actually had the disease anthrax is very low. People are also much less sensitive to anthrax than cows. People only get sick when they come into contact with a very large amount of anthrax bacteria. What happened? The NVWA has taken measures based on the opinion of the Risk Assessment Office. The meat was removed from the chain and from the shelves as a precaution. If there had been a danger to public health, we would of course have carried out the whole recall action, as we do in other situations, not only there but also with the consumer. No, this was just a precaution, maybe a little bigger than that. The weird thing is, you get that back like a boomerang, because I'm asked if it was enough. It was a precaution. The accusation that we have kept the contamination quiet is not justified. On 10 October 2014, the NVWA immediately issued a press release. That message was picked up by various media, for example by NU.nl, NOS.nl, telegraaf.nl and nrc.nl. All these Internet newspapers are known and they've published all of this. The relevant trade associations, the FNLI, the COV and the CBL gave NVWA access to the lists of companies which might have taken meat from Poland. Afterwards, the NVWA quickly launched the necessary action on these companies. The Secretary of State has already said a few things about the report on the risks in the meat chains. We sent a cabinet response to this in June last year. In the meantime, we are already working very hard on the implementation of the actions of this cabinet response. It is also important to put things in order. Mrs Dikkers asked how the consumer knew during the 2012 incident which supermarkets had bought contaminated fish. That was about Foppen. With the public recall, Foppen published a list of products and customers. The NVWA published additions to this when it appeared that more products should be covered by the recall. Those lists also include the relevant customers of Foppen. Consumers have therefore been informed of the customers who put Foppen's salmon on the market. The supermarkets have removed the products from the shelves, but have not communicated the reason for this to the consumer. Some gave an explanation, others didn't. In the event of a similar future incident, of course, we do not hope that this will happen, but what if that were to happen? They were also called upon to do so. Products have to be taken back within four hours. That wasn't made at Foppen's. We've been asked how we're gonna make it. A company has a legal obligation to immediately recover the products in case of incidents. In the Netherlands, we use a period of four hours as a guide. The NVWA will strictly monitor the operation of tracing systems of companies. The companies are also called upon to do so. The FVO will shortly carry out an inspection in the Netherlands. Does all the listeria contaminated meat need to be retrieved? Listeria is a dangerous bacteria for high-risk groups. That is why there is a legal standard. As long as the amount of listeria remains below this standard, the risk is nil and the product does not need to be recovered. If the standard is exceeded for the expiry of the so-called "use until" date, then the product must be recovered. The website of the Food Centre contains nutritional advice for risk groups related to listeria. Pregnant women, for example, should not eat raw milk cheeses. Mr Geurts proposed registering all businesses in the food chain. All food businesses must be registered with NVWA. This is regulated by the European hygiene regulations and by the Warenwet. Certain food businesses are also subject to an additional authorisation requirement in the form of an approval. In the case of an approval, prior to market participation, the NVWA shall assess whether a company complies with the applicable rules. Approvals are required for companies processing products with higher risks, e.g. cutting plants, slaughterhouses, fish processing plants and dairy processors. It has also been asked whether commercial laboratories should report food fraud to NVWA. Food companies are obliged to report standard overruns to NVWA. This is regulated at European level by Articles 19 and 20 of the General Food Regulation. This notification requirement shall not apply to commercial laboratories. Under the Animal Law, commercial laboratories are already obliged to report exceedances to NVWA. I think it is a good idea to introduce reporting obligations for the food sector as well. It is my preference to do this at European level, otherwise companies can move to commercial laboratories in neighbouring countries where the reporting obligation does not apply. I want to work in Europe to regulate the reporting obligation for commercial laboratories. I will take that into account in the ongoing process of the REFIT of the General Food Regulation. The third proposal concerned individual certification of quality officers at companies. The position of these employees in companies is important. It must be firm and independent. I do not know if certification is a solution, but I will consult with the FNLI to see if this is seen as a promising proposal. It was asked whether the role of the European Food and Veterinary Office (FVO) would be extended. The FVO works on behalf of the European Commission. The European Commission is responsible for this. It is therefore also responsible for the capacity and expertise and for the inspections carried out by the FVO. The FVO draws up an annual plan for inspections. It mentions both European and non-EU countries, and also points of interest. The FVO is already very active in assessing Member States' enforcement through its inspections and addressing Member States' gaps. Cooperation between the European Member States in cross-border cases of food fraud has been discussed. Work is being carried out in several ways to strengthen the approach to food fraud. The NVWA works more closely with the D.A. and other special investigation services, such as the FIOD and the police. The NVWA makes risk analyses of chains and strengthens its knowledge position in relation to chains. The meat chain has now been mapped out and increased supervision has been used. Authorities cooperate at international level. I refer to cooperation with INTERPOL and Europol, which includes active exchange of information. Member States shall continue to cooperate and inform each other about cross-border cases of fraud through the EU Food Fraud Network. Mr Dijkgraaf asked the question of food safety. The NVWA is now working on the State of Food Safety, which we expect to receive at the end of this year. Do we get out with the budget? If we needed more budget to do what needs to be done, we would have allocated more budget. We don't have any signals about that right now. That is not the case at the moment. The question about incident policy was very important to me. If you strengthen surveillance and you go more often, unexpectedly and look better, you'll also find more. That's absolutely true. There's definitely going to be an information paradox here. We see this very well in the care: the more transparency and the more we look, the more people talk about incidents. But we're all there. It would be good if we could find more in the beginning, which would make things better in order. Then we will achieve what we want to achieve. I was therefore pleased to see that attention was paid to this. I think I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr Geurts comes running; he has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u128	I had to come in from behind. I have asked another question about Company F, which, on the one hand, the Minister finds unacceptable and, on the other hand, functioning normally. That's contradictory. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u129	Does code orange indicate you're in a dangerous zone, or is that regular surveillance? You can also see this confusion at a red traffic light. I think you should stop at a red light, but in the NVWA enforcement method it means something else. In red light you travel in heavy weather and you get an inspection on your neck. The external handling of those traffic lights leads to confusion. If you show shortcomings for a long time, that's not acceptable. Deficiencies can, of course, be of all kinds. Some have a direct impact on food safety, but that is not the issue at all, because then there will be immediate intervention. I do not think it is acceptable that there may be structural shortcomings in companies for years, resulting in seven warnings and no penalty. That is exactly the whole framework that I have just outlined; we need to do it differently. The confusion is somewhat in his mind that we are now saying that this is regular, when I actually come to the conclusion that we should not accept it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u130	I repeat Mr Graus's statement: this matter has been brought to light by the use of Omroep Gelderland. My appreciation for that, too. In other words, I hear the Minister explaining the same thing; thank you for that. But when is this system going to change within the NVWA? When will this color table be adjusted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u131	I promised to come up with a supervisory framework for the summer. The NVWA now has 23 domains with 23 different intervention ways. We see the situation in the meat sector as an example. There a band is really shut down, which is much more painful for a company than anything else. After all, that means that such a company does not deserve it. That impact is bigger than a fine. I want us to turn those 23 frameworks that are too different.............................................................................................................................................................. If something is wrong, the NVWA should be on it faster and tighter and should be able to act harder. We also need a new system of fines under the amended Warenwet, which is in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u132	I'm not a lawyer. What I understand from the amendment to the Health Act, to which the Minister refers, is that it states that at AMvB - I have recently had good experience with this - the data can be made public. The law does not state that the data must be made public. In addition, the entire route of an AMvB should be set. As far as our group is concerned, it can be done much faster by simply stating that it must be made public and that it is about that and that data. Of course, the fact that there is a determination leaves a lot of space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u133	We didn't spin the pilot with the lunchrooms for nothing. After all, the lunchrooms are already public. It's a good thing we're running that pilot, because you can also learn what you do and what you shouldn't do. It is, therefore, about the adaptation of the Health Act that we can actually publish at company level. The current procedure is so administratively understood that you have to work with WOBs to get company names up. That is very cumbersome and very time-consuming for the NVWA. It must become an automatism that is clear from, for example, fish processing companies which are doing well and which are not. I have already announced what we will come up with and at what time. If we do it like this, anyone can see it. That's transparent. Then the good ones don't suffer from evil either. We really agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u134	It is nice that we agree on this, but I still do not understand why it should be regulated in an AMvB and cannot be put into law immediately. Why is there a determination in it and not a need-to-determine? Then you can start thinking at some point: it doesn't matter to us now, so we don't make it public, because that's what the law can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u135	I can't say that, but I have the feeling that that's because we can't do everything at once. You have to do it legally sustainable and it is a huge job to do. So we're going to make it sector by sector. If I make one law, where everything suddenly becomes public, we'll get a lot of lawsuits and lose. That's why it's built up so that we start with the lunchrooms. After that, the catering industry comes next and then another group. That's how a group comes in every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u136	In my previous interruption, I asked a question to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs which I should have asked the Minister of the United States of America. Next time the Minister goes to the Council of Ministers, let her take a Limburg pie and set up her dearest, charming head as she did the other day in the broadcast of Jeroen Pauw and sit next to the Minister of Security and Justice and ask him if he can also arrange for prison sentences for recidivists in the food sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u137	We have promised to come up with a new supervisory framework that is tighter. We also undertook to involve the Public Prosecutor's Office. I share Mr Graus' annoyance that we do not take hard action against large companies where much is earned. It has to be, if they're doing it wrong. I agree. There may be situations where you need to move on and maybe pick someone up. I will take that into account in the review framework. We'll talk to the state's attorney's office about that and come to the Chamber with it before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u138	I thank the Minister for this last commitment. This brought an end to the first-term response on the part of the government. I suggest we proceed with the second term immediately. I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals. There is a two-minute speaking time per group, including the reading of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u139	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. We are, of course, looking forward to the new plan for inspection and supervision. I would just like to check with the Secretary of State whether we have heard correctly that both the inspection and supervision will be entirely in the hands of the government, and that both the supervision and inspection and control of veterinarians, inspectors and inspection assistants will be subject to public responsibility. I'd like to get another reaction to that. And then we'll have to learn lessons. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Research Council for Security in its investigation of the risks in the meat chain draws firm conclusions on how the government has dealt with the safety of meat in the Netherlands;]] [[considers that the Court would benefit from a thorough examination of the decision-making process itself in order to draw lessons from it for the future and that the possibility of taking part in an oath has great added value;]] [[calls on the Bureau to draw up a committee to prepare a parliamentary inquiry into the decision-making process for the monitoring of meat and fish production,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been an intertwining of economic interests and legal authority in the livestock and meat sector over a period of ten years;]] [[noting that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is not in a position to make a sharp distinction between meeting the economic interests of the livestock and meat sector and enforcing and ensuring food safety and animal welfare;]] [[calls on the Government, NVWA and its statutory tasks to be fully entrusted to the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that in 2011 the Chamber adopted the "Ouwehand" motion (31571, No. 14), which called on the government to take measures to improve the slaughter process on account of animal welfare and food safety;]] [[noting that high band speeds of slaughter lines pose structurally high risks to animal welfare and prevent the careful inspection and control of meat;]] [[calls on the Government to structurally reduce the tyre speed of slaughter lines and to ensure a fraud-proof registration system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-464]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-465]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. I look forward to the new framework for NVWA, because we are looking forward to seeing how it will take shape and how it will work in practice. We are still concerned about the proposed amendment of the law which the Minister has sent to the Chamber, insisting that public access to the General Measure of Management can be achieved, and we very much hope that this will be compulsory. This makes it much easier for the NVWA to work, because it can be put directly on the website. We will table an amendment to that effect, and we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u141	Madam President. I shall not, by way of exception, table any motions because I am satisfied with what has been promised by the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and certainly by the Minister for Health. I would like to thank both directors for their commitments, including the fact that the fines are finally going up considerably and that prison sentences are being included in the plan. The Minister was right to say that they are really caught by corporate silence, especially because they are making very big profits with that deception. You get people out of society, you get them a lot better. Although there is also naming-and-shaming, it is mainly about pride, because no one will like to moustache. Many people are happy that they have to pay a high fine as long as they do not have to be in prison. That's exactly what you're gonna take them with. As soon as it has cost only one human life after a number of warnings, it is necessary to impose immediate prison sentences. That's my opinion, and I'm sticking with it. However, it is said that we should have sex with the driving judge. I wish everyone a good meal for the moment and a good evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u142	Mr. Chairman. You can hardly get over such final words as Mr Graus's, but I'm going to try anyway. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply. I also look forward to the supervisory framework and, of course, to the long-promised letter on how to deal with supervision and everything that has to do with it. I had three motions, but a number of commitments made by the Minister in particular allowed me to remove two. Maybe that'll happen to the third at some point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in general organisations are certified;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals based on personal certification in the food sector;]] [[calls on the Government to assess the administrative burden of this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u143	I wish the Minister and the Secretary of State a pleasant journey in the car with 130 km/h. We will be discussing the use of nitrogen in general with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their comprehensive answers and for addressing the issues we have discussed today. The debate was requested some time ago. I note that the cabinet has not been idle, but that we have not yet arrived. Thank you also for the commitment of the cabinet to take steps in this regard. I would like to say once again that companies are primarily responsible for the quality of products. Consumers must be able to assume that products are safe. This applies to the primary producer but also to all the following links in the chain, such as the trading houses and the manufacturing industry. Then we have a supervisory authority, which intervenes where it is not in order. So I very much welcome the commitment to a stronger supervisory framework. I think this is very workable for the NVWA but also for us in Parliament. It is also workable for consumers if we move from thirteen domains to one clear supervisory framework, which makes it clear to everyone how the NVWA works. There will be a number of bumps to take, including for business, but that will only benefit what we aim to do with each other: safe food, a consumer who can assume that it is okay and the possibility for good companies to continue producing good products. It's about the rotten apples; we have to bet hard on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr Dijkgraaf has informed me that he has obligations elsewhere. I shall therefore be the last to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union in this second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for answering all the first-term questions. I have two motions to make at the moment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the guiding principle in the supervision of the Dutch Food and Consumer Protection Authority (NVWA) of compliance with laws and regulations is public health;]] [[whereas, however, the NVWA also takes other interests into account in practice, such as its trading position;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that the interests of public health and food safety prevail at all times;]] [[calls on the government to submit proposals to the Chamber to return the administrative primacy for the NVWA to the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport in the near future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u147	I shall read out my second motion first and then explain it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas confidence in the safety and integrity of our food benefits from full transparency on possible risks to public health;]] [[Whereas some companies, such as VION, have chosen to publish inspection reports of NVWA;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the NVWA's new supervisory framework that inspection reports are made public by default, as envisaged in the new Health Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-469]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u148	I have been wrestling with this second motion, because the Minister expressly indicated that there would be a new Health Act and that we would still have the debate on it. However, we already have a new supervisory framework in the very short term. In fact, I find it impossible for us to say anything about the publication of reports in this new supervisory framework. As far as my group is concerned, this should be standard practice, which is why I have tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u149	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. The directors have indicated that they can proceed immediately with the final answers to the outstanding questions and their response to the motions submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr. Chairman. I shall deal in particular with a number of motions for resolutions that have been tabled. Mrs Ouwehand has once again tried to start the debate on monitoring and approval. In the past, we have already written in letters how we look at the public domain. We will look at the most sensible choices in the development process. Some comments have been made on this and at least one motion has been tabled. They will all be part of the balance we make. However, let us not have the debate today. Let us do that when we come to the Chamber with a proposal. I look forward to that debate. Moreover, I think it is extremely important that we have this debate. Mrs Ouwehand has tabled a motion, the motion in part No. 464, which the Cabinet cannot judge. After all, the Chamber must decide whether it intends to invest its energies in carrying out a parliamentary inquiry. That decision is ultimately up to the Chamber. It is rare, but in this case it is the domain of the Chamber. In addition, Mrs Ouwehand has tabled the motion for a resolution on item No. 465 the Ministry of Economic Affairs is not in a position to make a sharp distinction between, on the one hand, meeting economic interests and, on the other hand, enforcing and ensuring food safety and animal welfare. In the motion, the government is requested to have the NVWA and its legal functions under the Ministry of VWS. I do not agree with the above statement. In the light of what has been done in the recent period, partly from the Ministry of EZ, the finding may be factually incorrect. In addition, I have explained in detail in my contribution that both the Ministry of EZ and the Ministry of VWS is the client, that both departments are responsible for the supervision and protection of public health and that the NVWA is also responsible for the state surveillance. The NVWA cannot intervene alone, but must intervene in order to protect public health. The problem we are facing now is not so much about ownership, but rather about what we want to achieve, namely that the NVWA must stand up again. The motion in part No. 465 is therefore not recommended by me. The same applies to the motion in part No. 468, tabled by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Van Gerven. I also advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 466, tabled by Mrs Ouwehand, the government is asked to reduce the tyre speed of slaughter lines on a structural basis. I advise against this motion. We shall do so in the motion requested as soon as this is necessary. That is the core of the NVWA's method of working. This will be an important part of the monitoring and enforcement framework that the Chamber will receive for the summer. We therefore have an eye for it, but the way in which it is formulated in the motion is a little too sharp in the wind. Then I come to the motion on part No. 467 tabled by Mr Geurts. He said he's already taken away two motions we don't know. This motion is still in motion, but she's being dissuaded by me. Quality systems include qualified employees. We must not take on the responsibility of business. This matter really belongs to the business community, apart from the very high administrative burden and implementation costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u151	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dikkers announced that she would table an amendment to deal with the amendment of the Health Act. In the motion in part No. 469, tabled by Mrs Dik, asks the government to include in the NVWA's new supervisory framework that inspection reports are made public by default, as envisaged in the new Health Act. Through the amendment of the Health Act, we want to make disclosure standard, but we want to do so in a careful and step-by-step way. That can't happen all at once. It is precisely for that reason that I advise against the motion in part No. 469. I would like to discuss this further when dealing with the law, but I do not think we should do everything at once without gradually and carefully accompanying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u152	The essence of my motion is that we will soon have a supervisory framework. It is very strange if we do not say anything about this in that supervisory framework. I am very willing to write in this motion that inspection reports should be made public 'carefully and gradually' by default, if those words are important if we are going to do so. I'm fine with that, and I'd like to think along with that. I am particularly concerned about the fact that the supervisory framework, which comes in the very short term, includes considerations in the Health Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u153	The supervisory framework is mainly about how you supervise. It is a framework within which supervision takes place. This concerns in particular the action of the NVWA in the event of infringements. That is what the supervisory framework is about. This has everything to do with that, of course, because you cannot see this separately from each other. There's a bill in the Chamber now. I am replying to the questions put by the Chamber. I find it very difficult, then, to give motions in this connection already a 'judgement chamber'. I'm not. We really need to discuss this in the Health Act and then discuss it with each other about what we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u154	The Secretary of State has advised against my motion, but I have a question for the Minister on this. She has already said that she will talk to industry about personal certification. I am prepared to hold this motion if the Minister can tell us when she will have that discussion and inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u155	It's hard to tell when it's gonna happen, but I can inform the Chamber once the conversation has taken place. This will happen before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u156	This means that I will continue my motion until summer 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u157	At the request of Mr Geurts, I propose his motion (26991, No. 467). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u158	The Bureau still owes Mrs Ouwehand a verdict. In this case, I can just give this orally. This is a very clear question which should simply be put to the Chamber. So the answer is "judge Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-7.u159	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
