ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The minister has been to Berlin, the line of scheduled flights, you would think. But that is not the case. The minister has been to a major event related to the Global Vaccine Alliance. This is a good thing in itself, but the Minister has chosen to take a private jet to raison of about €9,000. I think that's a very high amount of money. I am not here to blame the Minister for not working very hard, because that is not the case at all, but I am asking her why this expenditure was made and what the added value of her presence there in Berlin was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr Smaling. It is clear that the rulers of Foreign Affairs use scheduled flights in principle and thus for the most part. That is the starting point. In a single case, there is a derogation from this rule. This was such a case. I would also like to explain why that choice had to be made. This is usually for agenda or security reasons, if any. I believe this is the first time I've done it, and I don't want to make a habit of it either. I agree with Mr Smaling that it is a lot of money. Why did it happen? On 26 and 27 January, the GAVI Conference in Berlin was chaired by Chancellor Merkel. She had also invited the Netherlands, because the Netherlands is one of the countries that contribute to the programme that has been set up to vaccinate people against common diseases. On Tuesday 27 January there was also a large conference in Rotterdam of 1,500 SMEs, for which I had been invited for months before. I thought it was important to be with both of them. We then look at regular scheduled flights. I should have missed one of the two meetings, because there were no direct scheduled flights from Berlin to Rotterdam on Tuesday afternoon 27 January. The meeting with the entrepreneurs was in Rotterdam. There were indirect flights from Berlin, but none of those flights could be operated at a time when I could be present at both conferences. We also looked at scheduled flights from Berlin to Amsterdam. They either left Berlin too early or arrived too late to get to Rotterdam on time. If that happens, we will see if it is possible to travel with the KBX or with Gulfstream. They were both taken. Then we will see if it is possible to use the Belgian defence device, for which we have an agreement with the Belgians. That was indeed possible, and that is what we have applied for. The trip took place on Monday, but on the Friday before that we heard from the Belgian Air Force that they had to withdraw their offer because of the death of the Saudi king and a Belgian delegation had to travel to Riad. That's why they needed this plane. Then we look at commercial hire and take the cheapest option. That's what we did here. Again, it's not the custom and I certainly don't intend to make a habit of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u3	The explanation is clear, but I still wonder if it was necessary to go there at all. Of course, it's a big deal and there's a lot of money in it from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. I could have imagined that the minister had chosen to skype, because she knew she had another meeting shortly afterwards. Bill doesn't look at €8,000 or €9,000 more or less and he might have offered to pick up Minister Ploumen. But no, it's chosen to... Look, it's not millions, it's 9,000 euros! A lot of people like it when they can add such a sum to their account monthly or even annually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u4	Certainly, Mr Smaling is right. I also remember that I couldn't spend that kind of money a year. That is why we are very reluctant to do so. Of course I've considered whether I should go if it all goes this way. That decision has been positive for a number of reasons. I thought it was important to put the message there that the Netherlands is contributing, but that part of our contribution is intended to attract financial contributions from private parties. That is a really new message, and I think we should convey it well. It was also an opportunity for me to speak to a number of people who were at that conference and who I might find much more difficult to speak to in other places. I call President Kikwete, indeed Bill Gates, but also the Director of Unicef. It was a good time, and I would like to say to Mr Smaling that, should something like this happen again, we will make a careful assessment. You must have a clear idea whether it is really necessary and whether there is added value. In this case the answer was yes, but I do not rule out that in other cases the answer may be no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u5	I still have a question for the Minister. Is there sufficient awareness within the Ministry that you must always earn the support for development cooperation? You can say that it has become extra fragile lately, also due to the crisis. People prefer to spend their money in all kinds of different ways than to contribute to development cooperation via the tax. If you see chocolate letters in the Telegraaf this morning: "holiday too expensive for a quarter of the people," it is very bitter to see at the same time that these costs have been incurred. Can the Minister and I say it again: she is working hard and I wish her a successful continuation of her ministry promise that this kind of cost will not be incurred in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u6	I have already said that I absolutely do not want to make a habit of this. I think it's the first time we've done it that way. Look, there may be reasons, for example security reasons, why you don't have another option, but I'm assuming I can keep up with what I've been doing for the past two and a half years. I'm not gonna make a habit of this. I hear very well what Mr Smaling is saying, and we always understand each other very well, even today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr Smaling spoke of the fragile support for development aid. Well, there might still be support for development aid in the SP devices, but the Netherlands just wants to get rid of that crazy development aid, because it's a waste of money. It's all a waste of money. It goes to African dictators, the money evaporates, one project after another collapses. This is just an example of that. I am glad, however, that all the sustainability slogans of this cabinet are in any case not borne by this minister, so that is profit again. Can the Minister explain whether this is not entirely in line with development aid? Madam Secretary wanted to speak to an African dictator and to be transported for a lot of money. That's just what development aid is. That doesn't fall outside of how development aid works, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u8	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u9	That's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u10	The programme that we are talking about here, the vaccination programme that is supported by governments, but which private parties also contribute to, ensures that a lot of children in developing countries are vaccinated. For us it is very common that you are vaccinated against all kinds of diseases as a baby and later on according to the schedule. That saves you from misery in your later life. We also grant this to other children, children in countries where this is more difficult to achieve. It is precisely this programme that assists the poorest countries. If countries do better, and fortunately we see it in more and more countries, the contribution will be reduced. This programme keeps pace with the economic development of countries, and I think we all share in this Chamber that governments themselves have the responsibility to take care of their citizens. If they can do it, they can do it, or we can help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u11	The second question for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u12	It's all cretology. The Western countries have shipped nearly 2,500 billion dollars to all of these development aid countries. That money's all evaporated. That's all gone. There is no sensible research that can demonstrate a relationship between our development aid and economic growth there. It doesn't exist. There's evidence that it's working the other way around. Now we need a vaccination program, when there's already $2,500 billion to go. Why haven't these countries taken care of that by themselves? The answer to that is: because of corruption, which they do not want to do anything about themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u13	I do not agree with Mr Bosma's observation. I think saving a child's life is worth it and it is very important that we contribute to it together if countries do not yet have it fully in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u14	The Chamber asked the Minister himself to increase the contribution to the vaccination programme, precisely because it was so successful. We are therefore also pleased that the Minister has taken the trouble to go to Berlin and tried to do so. Also the suggestion of the SP that it would be a holiday by linking with such an article, I wouldn't take care of it. The point is that the proper procedures have been followed. Is this the usual procedure? Has all the alternatives been looked at and the right decision then been taken? I'd like to hear your confirmation from the Minister. Is that what happened? And will it be like this next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u15	I shall first give the floor to Mr Smaling for a personal statement. I say: not a discussion, but a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u16	This is a personal fact. I didn't say the Minister was on vacation. I would therefore like Mr Van Laar to take back these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr Van Laar, are you prepared to take those words back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u18	I didn't say that. I just said the SP made a connection to going on vacation. "Holiday too expensive" was stated in the article, which held Mr Smaling up. In doing so, he suggested that this would be a similar journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u19	You don't deny it. I propose that the Minister should answer the question put by Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u20	In reply to Mr Smaling's question, I indicated the procedure. Commercial scheduled flights are the principle. If that is not possible or cannot be done for security reasons, we choose KBX or Gulfstream. In that case, we will look at the cooperation we have with the Belgian Air Force. Only if all this is not possible will commercial hire come into play and then we will choose the cheapest option. Again, it's not my habit to do this and I'm definitely not going to make a habit of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
