ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. It sounds nice. This bill restricts, prohibits or frame nothing, but makes something possible, and that on a voluntary basis. It concerns the teaching of ordinary school subjects in primary education in a language other than Dutch. The goal is also sympathetic: to familiarise pupils with a modern Western foreign language at an early age through ordinary education. Language acquisition would then be easier and students would thus reach a higher level of language management. Then why was the proposal not adopted by this Chamber much earlier? And why has it had a relatively extensive written procedure? As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the answer to these questions may be brief. My group is looking at the introduction of a foreign language as a teaching language for subjects in primary education as follows. Either you do it right, or you don't. With this motto in mind, my group is not yet convinced that we should go along with the proposal, because we are not yet convinced that the quality of teaching in a foreign language is sufficiently guaranteed. In this contribution I would like to discuss, in particular, quality assurance with the Secretary of State. I would also like to look with the Secretary of State at the possibilities for ensuring the quality of education. I have heard positive reactions in the preparation of this proposal. For example, schools in the border regions would no longer be hampered by visits to and exchanges with schools across the border. A guest lecturer from a neighbouring country could provide one or more lessons to students here. From this point of view, it is understandable that the legislative proposal does not impose an obligation on schools that use a foreign language as a means of teaching their language for a limited period of time to also offer lessons in that language. We do not have to worry about the language management of a foreign language by a guest lecturer in these cases either. But for such situations, the bill is not primarily written. It is clear that it is not a matter of pioneering a little playing, if I may call it that. No, it's about preparing students at a young age so that they can learn to master a foreign language in most cases it's about English at a high level with a view to their later life in a globalising world. The explanatory memorandum shows that the comprehensibility of a foreign language at a young age is high. But precisely then and precisely for this reason, in my group's view, it is very important for that language to be presented at the highest possible level. If a young age makes the student comprehensible for a foreign language, then that comprehensibility also applies to a language less good, defective, sloppy or mispresented. It is also crucial for the level of education in the profession taught through the vehicle of a foreign language that a teacher masters that foreign language very well. That this is easier said than done, I know from my own long-standing experience of offering academic education in a language other than Dutch. A mastery that is not excellent is at the expense of the foreign language and education on the subject at hand. That excellent control is by no means self-evident. On the quality of the language taught, the bill now contains no guarantee whatsoever. In the written procedure, the Secretary of State even went around it with a bow. A system of self-regulation to be developed should provide a solution. A legal anchoring of quality requirements would not fit into the system of the law. Also on the level of language control, the Secretary of State has so far refused to give an opinion. I do not think that the inspection can play a role in this without any competence and competence requirements. Or am I wrong about that? I'd like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. There is a comprehensive system of competence and competence requirements for occupations in education. For secondary education, a teacher must have a degree in the subject to be taught, as well as a proof of didactic competence. For primary education, the pabo must have gone through. Physical education teachers are even subject to a special requirement of competence in physical education. The Law BIO and the rules based on it contain in detail competence requirements for teachers. In order to be able to teach a foreign language, a requirement of competence applies in secondary education. But a fundamental question such as teaching in a foreign language in primary education would not be subject to any requirement of competence or competence. The pabo provides for courses to be taught, but not in teaching those courses in a foreign language. Especially if the legal possibility were to be used on a wider scale than by a single pilot school, we believe that a prior guarantee is needed. How could it be? My group considers it desirable to state what the minimum level of control of the foreign language to be taught should be. A fine-meshed system has been developed to define those levels. Level C could be a good starting point. This could also be made mandatory and perhaps integrated into regulation. The imposition of jurisdictional requirements is certainly not a precedent. Pabos can in future develop education and associated certificates for teaching an ordinary school course in a foreign language. There is more to this than mastering that language in everyday speech use alone. If I am not mistaken, some teacher training courses already focus specifically on bilingual education. The self-regulation system to be developed by participating schools can play a role in maintaining skills and continuing training. Can the Secretary of State go along in this direction with a view to guaranteeing quality? The pilots have of course been surrounded with the utmost care and guidance. It is no longer available for schools if it becomes legally possible to go to foreign language teaching itself. My group is considering tabling a motion on quality. It hopes for cooperation with other groups on this issue. In line with the above, I would like to touch on two points, firstly the 15% ceiling. This ceiling is not laid down in the legislative proposal but is regulated by a General Measure of Management. Pending the results of the pilot being carried out, consideration is already being given to an increase of up to 50%. 15% is already about a day. That's quite a lot for primary education. With 50%, the character of primary education really changes. My group considers this to be justified only if this Chamber is informed in advance of that intention, together with the results of the research on which it is based. My group is interested not only in the results of the mastery of English by students, but also in the Dutch language skills and in the content of the courses offered in a foreign language. Is the Secretary of State prepared to agree to that? How is it ensured that students will be familiar with Dutch professional terms? Do the Cito tests remain in Dutch, for example, or are they partly taken in English? This point has also been presented by the Foundation for Language Defence. My second point concerns the connection with secondary education. Can the Secretary of State explain again how he sees the connection to secondary education in the near future when there is a clear difference between schools that do and do not use the bill if it is adopted? And what does that look like with a possible introduction of the 50% option? I started with the motto of this bill for my group. Either you have to do it, or you have to do it right, or you don't have to do it. In order to do it right, the legislative proposal on quality assurance still needs some concreteisation. We have just made a proposal to that effect. I await with interest the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u3	Are you familiar with the research of the University of Leiden what and whether benefits are in early language learning? The result is that there is actually no advantage for early starters, because they learn slower than late starters, who have much more cognitive skills. All studies show that if you speak a foreign language early, it helps in the private situation but that there is no advantage in this at school. Knowing that, how do you feel about the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u4	We are not in any way against it, I have just tried to explain it, but we do think it is important that education is given at such a good level that both English and the content of the subject to be taught are not affected and that it does not affect Dutch. In particular, if it is going to be more than 15%, so it is going to be 50%, it is of course more important to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u5	On the contrary, the research shows that the best thing you can give is full immersion education, so full immersion education, in order to obtain that second language in a good way. Everything else, even partial immersion education, does not achieve the results that the Secretary of State says we need so much. Are we not dealing here with unnecessary legislation? After all, there are no positive results with this education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u6	I think my answer to that is negative, so it does not necessarily mean that you have to take a negative look at this proposal. In addition, for us it is a possibility that schools get. It is therefore not compulsory for schools, but they can choose to do so. Then, of course, parents can choose a particular school or not. That would be my answer for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group have taken note of the legislative proposal. We support the importance of the legal possibility for children to lay the foundations for foreign languages at an early age. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions put in writing. As with many legislative proposals, we are dealing here with a balance of interests. New generations have a great socio-cultural and economic interest in acquiring internationalist competences. In education, this concerns mobility, educational content and languages. Dosing and temporalisation of these should be done carefully and tailored. Not too much, not too little. Not too fast, not too slow. That is a question of individual customization, as many things in education are. At the time of the Dijsselbloem report, we agreed that it is the school and the teacher themselves who, in consultation with parents and students, can determine the best dosage and pace per pupil. That report was widely embraced by the House of Representatives. The law offers space and boundaries. In determining these limits, the question must always be asked whether it is not too fast for some pupils and not too slow for others. My group still has a few questions about this. This concerns first children who are lagging behind. Learning a foreign language at a young age has a positive impact on the cognitive and linguistic development of a child, according to the Education Council in 2008. According to the Education Council, the learning performance of English by immigrant children is generally no different from that of native children from the same social environment. Children with a different language background even have a presong when the lessons are given in a foreign language as language, because it is the second time for those children that they come into contact with a foreign language. Many studies have been carried out on this subject and many of them have passed through the previous discussions on this bill. I won't repeat them all unless you insist, Mr. President. In its opinion, the Education Council has listed the research available and has itself spoken with dozens of schools and teachers. Until the 1960s, the Education Council wrote in its concluding report called Foreign Languages in Education, and scientists and experts assumed that offering two languages, at home or in education, could have negative effects on the development of children. Positive effects were attributed to social origin and the environment, the social bias. Since then, however, it has been widely published on the effects of bilingualism and foreign language teaching. To test the alleged effect of social origin, Peal and Lambert from Montreal investigated groups of children from socially equal environments. It appeared that bilingual children on all kinds of cognitive tests score not lower, but significantly higher than monolingual children from the same social environment. Also in the Experience Report Project 15% vvto and the final report Foreign Languages in Primary School Project of Utrecht University and the University of Groningen, only positive effects were reported. Parents, pupils and teachers were enthusiastic almost without exception. In particular, there was no demonstrable negative effect on the knowledge of Dutch and business subjects. Vvto (early foreign language learning) seems to promote language development, including in languages other than the language in question. In addition, vvto students with a non-Dutch and non-English home language develop themselves in relation to Dutch vocabulary similar to Dutch pupils. Wasn't there any objection? Well, the main objection in those studies was that some students only started the project in higher groups. As a result, they lacked basic skills that they should have learned with 15% vvto at an earlier age, says Utrecht University. With regard to that early start, the meta-analysis of the Education Council shows that "predominantly positive effects of foreign language education from group to primary school. These effects have been found for three aspects: foreign language skills, mother tongue skills and the development of metalinguistic and metacognitive skills such as analytical thinking, grammatical awareness and understanding of word structure and meaning building. The best results have been found for situations where children are immersed in the new language." This immersion therefore concerns the above mentioned immersion education. Such skills are particularly important for children whose development is lagging behind or who have a learning problem. These children, and for the members of my group, this is an important point, must not be penalised, either by exclusion from, or by untimely or untimely participation in the vvto. This is also the view of the Education Council, which, on the basis of its extensive meta-analysis of the available research, also advises foreign language education for these target groups, but with a less high level of ambition and separate final levels. What is the government's vision at these various final levels? Is the government prepared to include these aspects in the impact monitoring and to submit the results to this Chamber? In particular, local education is particularly useful for those who do not necessarily need higher education and will often have to find their job later within a more limited range of activities. The immersion method has the additional advantage that this will not be at the expense of the teaching time of other subjects, including Dutch. This Chamber has received an explanation from the researchers of the Preliminary Study Pilot Bilingual Primary Education. They indicate that language learning is not a question of or-or. Focusing on languages in education can in principle have a positive impact on all languages in the programme. However, they point out that it is important to closely monitor the Dutch language development of language weak and foreign language pupils when introducing 15% early foreign language teaching. My group is optimistic about the effects of early foreign language education, but shares the observation that this group should be given attention in the pilot and asks the Secretary of State how he intends to implement the Rog motion adopted in the Lower House in this context. In that motion, the government is asked to explicitly monitor the effects on the Dutch language control in schools where part lessons are taught in a foreign language and to inform the Chamber about the results in 2018. The percentage of teaching time that can be given in a foreign language, as indicated in the legislative proposal, which is 15%, is therefore a maximum percentage. Schools are free to apply lower percentages. In the written round, my group asked the government whether it was not afraid that, in particular, disadvantaged schools would be chosen for a lower percentage than that 15%, whereas the children most in need of this development impulse would be able to contribute to widening a social divide. In reply, the Government states that schools themselves determine whether and, if so, what part of the teaching time they offer in a foreign language within the given language, that they weigh among other things in relation to what suits the pupil population and benefits most from it and that research shows that pupils with a linguistic disadvantage do not develop in bilingual programmes other than pupils who are not lagging behind. Does the government mean, therefore, that pupils with a language disadvantage are apparently doing as well as those without a language disadvantage and that this is therefore a positive effect of the programme? The latter would be precisely a reason for my group to repeat the question. Should 15% not be a minimum percentage, or at least a target rate, in an "apply or explain" arrangement? In the abovementioned Experience Report, Utrecht University also suggests 15% vvto to use 15% as a target level. In addition, according to Dijsselbloem, we also have the "how"..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If possible, leave it to the schools to decide and agree on the "what" together. So those are the final levels. Now, the Education Council is in favour of setting two different final levels for primary education: one that is feasible for almost every child and one that could satisfy three quarters of children. Has the government considered taking over precisely this part of the opinion, i.e. the final levels, from the Education Council in accordance with Dijsselbloem and naming the 15%, which is the "how," as has been said, as a guide rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u8	I can fully share Mr Bruijn's concern about groups which are lagging behind. Is he also of the opinion that the government may need to make additional resources available to meet precisely these schools, which are facing much more challenges and where it may be most necessary to prevent this social division, so that they can perform their social task properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u9	We are talking today about the 15% foreign language education bill. In this context, I do not agree with Mr Ganzevoort. All studies show that, if you do this by means of the immersion method, it is not a question of giving an existing subject in Dutch but in another language. The Education Council has spoken with a large number of schools that do and with schools that do not. The Education Council has asked schools that do it why they do it. Schools that don't do it have been asked why they don't. In addition, the finances have never been an argument. The Education Council carried out this study in 2008. The motivation of the school leadership was the decisive factor. The availability of good teachers, at least according to those schools, regardless of the value we attach to them, was not the argument of whether or not to do so. Money is not a decisive issue in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u10	The question then arises is whether the general reasoning that money is not generally the motivating factor also applies to the specific group of disadvantaged schools, or to schools in disadvantaged areas, or to schools working with a disadvantaged population, where the assignments may already be very large. For that particular group, funding might be an issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u11	That's a question you could ask the Secretary of State. This is a very important point. I have also brought it up myself, but the study carried out by the Education Council, which includes disadvantaged schools, shows that even in those schools, where funding can be a challenge, funding for early foreign language education is not the challenge. Giving an existing course in another language, early foreign language education, does not cost extra resources, but you must have a good teacher. The previous speaker has already called for this. I'll go into it as well. It also doesn't take extra time in the curriculum, because you give an existing box in another language. I share the importance of this point, but I do not think that we should ask the government to provide additional resources for this. In fact, a good foreign language mastery will later have a certain economic return and may eventually provide additional resources in the state treasury, so that this can lead to lower burdens. However, we will see that in a while. The question was whether the government did not want to include this 15% as a guide rate. This would also address the concerns of pupils with learning disadvantages, for which the Education Council advises the individual levels. It's those two separate final levels. Why wait for Platform 2032 Education, as the government states in the reply, when the Education Council specifically advised on the final levels already in 2008 on the basis of a comprehensive analysis? In order to achieve the core objectives of the English language, it is not necessary, as the Government states in the reply, to offer foreign language teaching in addition to teaching English. There is therefore no minimum requirement in a foreign language. However, according to the evidence-based analysis of the Education Council, it is certainly better to start with a foreign language rather than as currently used in group seven of primary education, by means of the immersion method, because many of the problems with the current English course stem precisely from the late starting age. Finally, in this context, the question arises as to whether children who are lagging behind in terms of language or otherwise could not be supported early with the help of pre-school education. I would like to see the government's vision on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. You should be able to control the microphones with your feet in view of the iPad. Mr Bruijn states that it has been proven that early immersion education works better than late age. I refer again to the study of Leiden University which has examined all the studies in this area. This was the conclusion: "Previous start-ups get more input than late start-ups in most educational situations, but this additional input is not enough to stay ahead of the late start-ups." A 2006 study states that the performance of early and late start-ups will not ultimately vary as far as both target groups at the same age will be tested at the end of the school curriculum in secondary education. The advantage that the late starters have on early starters during their school career, the fact that they are older at the time of testing and further in their cognitive development, has disappeared. I have always known the VVD as a party that does not like unnecessary regulation at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u13	What's the question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u14	If you look at the conclusions of this study, a literature review of all the studies that have been there, you can conclude that it does not help to do so. Why introduce a bill that has no effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u15	I am very pleased with that question from Mrs Gerkens and the SP. The Secretary of State and I are pleased that Mrs Gerkens is quoting a renowned institute like the University of Leiden. It is an important study, which underlines how important it is to make a difference between regular, early foreign language teaching, thus teaching a language. That's the best way to learn. Indeed, the 2012 survey is interesting. It is good that Mrs Gerkens brings that up, but that is about regular early foreign language teaching. It shows that, if you use that, even starting early doesn't make sense. The study of the Education Council, which oversees the whole, the meta-analysis, confirms that. It states that, if you start early, you have to start with the immersion method. Actually, we all do that with our newborn babies when we start talking to them as parents. That's the immersion method. Then you don't start explaining grammar first, at least most of us don't, I hope. Only later, around the seventh grade, you start with regular early foreign language teaching, grammar, translation and words. It is important that Mrs Gerkens bring that up. Thanks for the supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u16	I am pleased that Mr Bruijn has looked closely at the research. I think he has only looked at its questioning. The research has indeed looked at immersion education, full immersion and partial immersion. It is concluded that only complete immersion, so full foreign language education, has the same advantage. Starting early with a foreign language turns out to work in the private situation, because you speak that foreign language at home and at school. In part immersion education, i.e. less than 50%, we see the same results as in ordinary early foreign language teaching. The same applies to the 15% contained in the legislative proposal. In short, we are not solving anything with this. There is no problem in my view, but we are introducing a law that does not achieve the effect that Mr Bruijn intends to achieve. If he looks at that investigation again, doesn't he think we're working on unnecessary legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u17	Mrs Gerkens now repeats her question. I won't repeat the answer. I am very pleased with her support for my plea to increase the percentage of 15% as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u18	Mr Bruijn therefore proposes that education be given entirely in a foreign language from now on. After all, that is the only method on which it works better. Is that what Mr Bruijn wants? Will we now speak English, German or French in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u19	I appreciate the level of ambition of Mrs Gerkens and the SP. I'm not that far. I asked the government whether it might see in all the investigations a reason not to use the 15% as a ceiling, but as a guide rate. This can give schools that are just underneath an impetus to move towards that 15%. My group fears that the disadvantaged children, who often go around in these schools, are lagging behind. Once again, I appreciate Mrs Gerkens' support for my idea of whether we should increase the 15% rate. Her proposal to take it directly to 100% is a little too far for me. I'll join the forerunner's choirs. The legislative proposal is based on the fact that an increasing number of primary schools, supported by parents, want to offer early foreign language education through the immersion method. In fact, a lot of schools are already doing this. In the Netherlands, more than a thousand primary schools in group 1 already offer lessons in a foreign language. Over the past five years, the number of schools offering English lessons to the youngest in primary school has more than doubled. More and more schools offer bilingual education in different forms and sizes. In addition, the number of primary schools already offered by pupils in group 1 bilingual education is growing. It's usually an hour or half an hour a week. A regular lesson, for example gym, is then given in English. The law forbade this until now, but apparently the competent authorities saw reason to allow it blindly. This amendment now also formalizes this legislation, i.e. up to 15% of the time spent on education, in accordance with the advice of the Education Council. However, among the schools that already offer vvto, there are a number that use a higher percentage than 15. How does the government view this and how does it handle it? How many schools are involved, what are the reasons for these schools to apply a higher percentage than 15%, also in line with the wishes of the SP? How will the government deal with this after the introduction of the bill? From the point of view of continuity of policy, can these schools count on continuing to offer their programmes? An example is De Nieuwe Internationale School Esprit, abbreviated Denise, in Amsterdam. Denise offers bilingual international education for all students, with the first and current target mainly integrating newcomers and expats. The Dutch children come directly from abroad with an expatriate father or mother or soon leave abroad, as is customary at international primary schools. These children are covered by the international schools scheme, which means that Dutch is not a mandatory language. On Denise, however, regular Dutch children are also admitted. The socio-cultural benefits of this international classroom are obvious. That's what the parents see. The school has a very long waiting list. For language teaching, tailor-made work is provided, taking into account the cultural background and the linguistic background of the individual pupil and his/her talents and abilities. Part of the pupils have English as their mother tongue or second language. Dutch is added as a second or third language. Research shows that the best way to learn a second language is to build on the mother tongue. That certainly applies to the young students. For this reason, reading and writing is taught in English if this is the native language, and in Dutch in all other cases. Dutch or English is built on top of that. In practice, it means starting with about two thirds of English and a third of Dutch. Over the course of time that shifts to 50/50 to a third English and two thirds of Dutch in the superstructure of the po and in vo. This exceeds the maximum amount of English allowed in this bill, at least as regards the regular Dutch pupils present who are not covered by the separate scheme. For students with a non-English background one starts in the ratio a third English and two thirds Dutch and keeps it broadly on that ratio. This also exceeds the maximum. Although this fits within the IGBO status, this status is not intended for the Dutch students who are admitted to this form of international education. How does the Secretary of State view this? The strict separation of IGBO and regular prohibits Dutch pupils from attending international education. Isn't that socially-cultural and economically undesirable in these times? Is the government prepared to allow the admission of Dutch regular children to such international education, possibly only for existing cases, as an experiment? The Education Council recommended this already in 2006 with regard to the International Baccalaureate in secondary education. Would this not be a second reason for using 15% as a directive rather than as a ceiling? The importance of good teachers has already been mentioned by my colleague from the CDA. This interest is evident in early foreign language teaching, and this has been discussed extensively in written preparation. It could be said that we do not legislate on personnel policy for other subjects either, but we leave it to the school itself. The quality of the overall education process is tested, in accordance with the Dijsselbloem Commission, by means of the examination on the basis of pre-arranged learning goals. In the reply, the Government indicated that there are various good training and related grants for teachers using a foreign language as a language. New initiatives are also emerging, such as the Hbo-bachelor International Teacher Education for Primary Schools. Under the coordination of EP-Nuffic, schools in primary education are working on a quality standard, according to the government. However, my group and others have not yet fully resolved their concerns about this. Can the Secretary of State give an approximate indication of how many teachers will be involved, whether the possibilities available are sufficient, what is the timetable envisaged and whether teacher training is in the meantime complying with performance agreements? These performance agreements are included in the policy agenda drawn up by the then Minister and teacher training courses in 2005 to implement the Dutch Modern Foreign Languages Activities Programme. That is very relevant in this context. Is the register of teachers not a good tool for ensuring that continuing vocational training is properly regulated by professionals, so as to stress the importance of its rapid implementation? The members of my group await the Government's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u20	I give the floor to Mrs Nooren and press the button so that everyone knows that a maiden speech is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. A well-known Dutch proverb reads as follows: Whoever was born for a dime, will never be a quarter. The proverb states that a person born in a poor family will not achieve so much in life. Fortunately, we live in the Netherlands in a time and society in which we strive to ensure that talent and commitment determines the chance of a training or good social position and not someone's family background or the financial situation of the family of which he is a member. Much has been achieved in the last century in terms of equal access to education for all children and young people. In the composition of this Chamber you see an impact of this development. Many of us, including myself, are better educated than their parents. We have been given opportunities to develop and exploit our talents through good education. Talents who are now deployed in science, society and politics. It is my honour and pleasure to contribute to the legality, enforcement and feasibility of legislation with this baggage, together with 74 expert colleagues. In doing so, it is my ambition to pay particular attention to the importance of legislation for the position and role of vulnerable people in our society. In my work at Bartiméus I notice every day what it means for people with visual disabilities to be dependent on others to count and have a meaningful life. There is still much to be done to really speak of an inclusive society. It is my firm belief that legislation, especially in the field of education, must be judged on its contribution to a just society, in which all people are welcome and equal, regardless of talent, origin and background. Especially people with disabilities or others who, for whatever reason, have difficulty with the increasingly complex society deserve special attention. The PvdA stands for a single society with equal opportunities for all. She has always worked for this and will always do so. Education that offers opportunities for all children and young people and challenges them to develop their talents is crucial. Research also shows an ambition that still needs to be put into action. Education disadvantages are related to the characteristics of the family in which a child grows up. The education of parents is still the most decisive factor in the later success of children in school. Research also shows that young people who have no qualifications or are low-skilled are less likely to find a job. In short, there is still a lot of work to be done. Investing in education that offers children the opportunity to develop, and which is interesting, binding and challenging, is therefore very important. With the bill on multilingual primary education, the Secretary of State wants to contribute to this. We thank the Secretary of State for his answers to the various questions put by various groups in preparation for this plenary session. In our group's view, the Secretary of State has made a clear argument as to why he would like to use this bill to give room to schools that want to teach their pupils a foreign language at an early age and to use that foreign language as a language by means of the so-called immersion method. This is now only allowed for a limited number of schools already participating in the pilot multilingual education. The Secretary of State assumes that through bilingual education children can be better prepared for an increasingly international society. He is convinced that the opportunities for children in terms of language skills will improve if they can be taught early with English, French or German as language. We think it is an enrichment that this legislative proposal pays attention to the importance of alpha subjects in education and specifically to the proper management of the language. Early contact with languages other than the mother tongue generally has positive effects on language and other skills. This has been mentioned before. This is also apparent from the inventory of international research carried out by the University of Groningen on behalf of the Secretary of State at the pilot. As a PvdA group, we are convinced that appealing, challenging lesson forms can best be brought up by children and their teachers. The legislative proposal and the answer to questions raised in the parliamentary debate express a great confidence of the Secretary of State in the self-regulatory capacity of education. To questions about the bill, the Secretary of State replies that it is up to the educational institutions themselves to decide how the teachings in English, French or German are to be translated. Giving more space to educational institutions is one of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Dijsselbloem Commission on education renewal in 2008 taken over by the Chamber; Mr Bruijn referred to it. However, an important conclusion of the committee was that the government should focus more on its core task: securing the quality of education. As a PvdA Group, we endorse that giving room to exploit opportunities gives confidence and provokes own responsibility. After all, learning is literally and figuratively done by falling and getting up. We recognize that it is a quest to find a good balance between taking responsibility as a government for the quality of education and the space for schools for the didactic and substantive interpretation of it. Anyone who wants to experience the struggle that comes with finding such a balance, I recommend to watch the movie The story of Ray Charles once or maybe even again. In the phase that Ray Charles goes blind, his mother, despite her own fear and uncertainty, gives him the space to find his own way and become independent. She pays attention and intervenes only if there is no other way. She secured the frameworks within which Ray Charles could develop into a fantastic musician. By analogy with this example, we expect the Secretary of State for Education to be present at the introduction of multilingual primary education, to follow the progress of the process and, if necessary, to intervene if the quality and accessibility of primary education for children are at risk. Following on from the above, we have a number of questions about how the Secretary of State will fill in his role in this legislative proposal. Our questions are about the choice of English, French and German as the second language, about ensuring the quality of teachers. More questions have already been asked about the significance of the changes for vulnerable children and about the impact of parental contributions on the accessibility of multilingual education. If a choice is made for multilingual education, it is logical to opt for languages that Dutch people have to deal with a lot. On the question of why only English, French and German are chosen as the second language, the Secretary of State replies that these are the formal languages in Europe. Now the world is bigger than Europe. If you look globally, the meaning of a language such as Spanish increases. Can the Secretary of State explain why the choice of the second language is not left to the school and parents? The second subject on which we have questions concerns the training of teachers who are going to teach in the second language. From the reply to the legislative proposal and the answer to the written questions, we conclude that the Secretary of State considers that teachers should be qualified in the second language through continuing training. Training must be given a place in the professionalisation register. Although we think this is a good idea, in our view this is not a sufficient guarantee to guarantee the quality of the teachers. In his reply, the Secretary of State states that he relies on the field and does not want to prescribe what training should involve. This is argued by indicating that this is in line with the rest of primary education. As a PvdA Group, we are wondering whether that reasoning is actually correct. Most teachers in primary education followed the pabo. The curriculum of this training is tailored to the subjects and teaching programmes in the current primary education system. The teaching of multilingual primary education is not yet part of this. It is also striking that in the studies to which the Secretary of State refers to demonstrate the added value of bilingual education, prior demands are always placed on teacher training. The Groningen researchers, the experts involved in their research and others also indicate that you should only have teaching in another language by qualified teachers. We would like to ask the Secretary of State why he does not accept these opinions and leaves the guarantee of the quality of the teachers to the ground. We would also like to ask the Secretary of State how he is going to assess whether schools are actually taking responsibility and how he intends to keep an eye on the quality of education in another language. Finally, we would like to ask the Secretary of State at what time and in what way he intends to intervene if the quality is not good. Equal opportunities in education are a basis for equal opportunities in the rest of life, as I have said before. It is to be commended that the Secretary of State introduces the possibility of bilingualism in both regular and special education. Schools may, but do not have to offer bilingual education. In addition, they have the freedom to decide for themselves when and how to teach in another language. For us as a PvdA group, it is important that bilingual education keeps the chances of a successful school career for vulnerable children and especially children with language disadvantage or learning difficulties at least at the same level. The question is whether there are sufficient guarantees for this in the legislative proposal. As a PvdA group, we believe that it should be avoided that early playful introduction to a language such as English in education is reserved only for "smart" or "smooth" children. At the same time, we realise that it may be in the interests of vulnerable children not to increase the teaching material by teaching in another language. The question is what factors will make schools decisive in their choice and whether they are willing and able to make extra efforts to allow children who are vulnerable to take part in a class in another language. In doing so, we wonder whether we are not running the risk of creating a situation in which vulnerable children, including children with language difficulties or learning difficulties, are no longer offered an equivalent curriculum. How does the Secretary of State intend to prevent that? In addition, we call on the Secretary of State to keep an eye on equal opportunities for vulnerable children. We believe it is important to examine the impact of the introduction of bilingual education on these children in the coming years, so as to better understand the added value and accessibility of bilingual education for all children. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so and, if so, when can we receive the results of these investigations? Our final questions relate to the impact of the introduction of multilingual education on the voluntary parental contribution. The schools do not receive any additional funding for bilingual education from the Ministry of Education. That's what we've just been talking about. However, a number of grants are open for additional teacher training and materials are partly available free of charge. In response to questions about the consequences it will have for the voluntary parental contribution, the Secretary of State stresses in particular the voluntary nature of that contribution. He expects, on the basis of the Pilot Multilingual Primary Education, that the introduction of multilingual primary education will not lead to any difference on the basis of socio-economic backgrounds of the pupils. However, the pilot was limited in character and with bilingual education more experience has already been gained in secondary education. Is the Secretary of State aware of whether the parental contribution in bilingual secondary schools is higher than that in other schools and, if so, whether there is consistency with the socio-economic status of the families from which the children come? Is the Secretary of State prepared to monitor the impact of the introduction of bilingual education on the level of voluntary parental contribution? Does he intend to intervene if it would have an effect exclusively on children from financially less able families? Good and challenging education is a good basis for further life. It is our belief as a PvdA that this bill can contribute to this, provided that this education is of good quality and that it is made possible for all children in the Netherlands to participate. We look forward to the Secretary of State's response to our questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. Please stand still. Congratulations on your maiden speech. I would like to outline something about your background in this place. Although your maiden speech in the First Chamber today was about education, your career has so far been mainly in health care. You have taken remarkable steps in this sector. After high school, you start as a lung function assistant. After a few years you opt for the training of ergotherapist. You practiced that trade between 1986 and 1991 in Deventer and later in Haarlem. In addition, you will study policy and management health care at Erasmus University Rotterdam. After your graduation, despite your work within the "modal time" as it is called today, a whole achievement is being held by your training institution. From 1993 to 1997, you are a scientific assistant and later a university lecturer at the Erasmus University's Institute of Policy and Management Health Care, when and still a leading institute in the field of health policy research, to which our former Vice-President Kim Putters was also attached and is still in addition to his main role. In 1997 you enter health care policy as a policy officer at the umbrella of health insurance companies, Zorgverzekerings Nederland. Your management skills will soon be discovered, because soon you will be the manager of Healthcare. Six years later, in 2003, you will be transferred to the position of director of the Vereniging Gehandippenzorg Nederland (VGN), the trade association of providers of healthcare and services to people with disabilities. You will be in this position for five years to join a healthcare institution in 2008: you will be a member of the board and later chairman of the care institution Lunet. Since January 1, 2013, you have been chairman of the Board of Directors of Bartiméus, you mentioned that in your speech, too, a large organisation that supports people with visual disabilities. You belong in this Chamber to the group of people who do have a great social experience, but do not have a direct experience as a representative of the people. But you do come from a political nest: your father, who had a mixed farm in North Brabant of 20 hectares with cows and pigs, was administratively active in the CDA and gave you an important part of your social involvement. Your ideas, as you yourself have explained, are strongly influenced by the humane aspects of progressive Roman Catholicism from the 1970s and 1980s in West Brabant. In your party, the PvdA, you were active in the background: as a member of the Working Group Patient Central and as a member of the Working Group Working Group of the Wiardi Beckman Foundation. Now that you have been a member of the PvdA Group of the First Chamber since 9 June 2015, you will undoubtedly take a more political approach, as an exponent of the reflective community that we form here with each other. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I'm suspending the sitting to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech. After I have suspended the meeting, I will be the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. I begin by congratulating Mrs Nooren from this place on her maiden speech. I look forward to the many debates we will have together. Last week I was on the train with a group of young ladies. They discussed common language errors, such as "annoying" rather than "annoying." They complained about a fellow student who didn't speak Dutch and could still do an HBO education. You know them, Mr President, these complaints, because in politics too there is often talk of language retardation. This cabinet even introduced the controversial language and calculation test for it. Not rarely do I speak people who do not use our article and demonstrative pronouns correctly: "the grass, this number, that book." Language is really my thing, says Paulien Cornelisse. It is beautiful as she can make the art of the Dutch language clear to a large audience. Unfortunately, people like her are becoming rare. Playing with words a few decades ago was the power of cabaretiers. They used the game of language in their conferences and got many laughs on their hands. I can highly recommend the Chamber today to Kees Torn. Language is the essence of our culture, of every culture. Typical Dutch are words like "nice" and "cozy." The richness of these two words makes them almost impossible to translate. The Dutch language also seems to have its limitations. Few suspect that Dutch takes a worthy place in the world of language. It is one of the 40 most spoken languages in the world, a world with more than 6,000 spoken languages. 23 million people speak Dutch and in Europe Dutch takes an eighth place. The Dutch Language Dictionary is the largest in the world: there are no less than 400,000 words in it. Dutch, rightfully a language to be proud of. Language is also the most powerful instrument in politics. Many cabinets have proved masters in the use of euphemisms. This way, no bank goes bankrupt, but nowadays a bank falls over. We don't know poor people, we know socio-economically weak people. And an unfortunate act is used to admit stupidity. It is also remarkable that in the 20th century the number of euphemisms in the social field has increased. I only have to refer to last week's debate, where Mr Pechtold expressed his intention to use less clichés. They're known as "change," "clip-and-ready," "it's left or right," "with all due respect," "of two and one," you name them. Anyone who missed the debate should read Mr Holdijk's speech when leaving this Chamber. A speech with balanced words, every word full of meaning, short, powerful and eloquent. With this introduction I am well aware that I will now have to pay close attention to my words! The basis for our language is not only language teaching, but also its daily use. Language makes for a better language. That is exactly the underlying idea of this bill. Foreign languages may become the teaching language at primary school. My group is very concerned about this. First of all, the Secretary of State bases himself on investigations that are not unambiguous. It appears, for example, that foreign-speaking children who are immersed in bilingual education achieve better results. But it has not been investigated whether this is because these children are academically stronger than foreign-speaking children in mainstream education. When I visited last year, looking for secondary education for my youngest child, the educational evening of a tto-school, it was repeated a number of times that this education is chosen by children who can use an extra challenge, otherwise they would not do so. The expert Fred Genesee also states that children who have difficulty learning can be provable in bilingual education. But he says explicitly that no studies have yet been carried out on children with serious language problems. There is no thorough study of the acquisition of the Dutch language during bilingual teaching of foreign speakers, even in children with a language disadvantage. I would like to point out that these are not just immigrant children, but also children who have Dutch as their mother tongue. Children with a language disadvantage close the primary school with a vocabulary of 10,000 words, where children with no language disadvantage know 17,000. This means that these children already have difficulty in their own language, gaining knowledge of the other subjects, let alone in a foreign language. The introduction of bilingual education makes the school years so important in primary education vulnerable, especially as long as the studies are not yet able to determine this risk. The SP Group has another concern. Immersion or immersion education is a form of education that is preferred by parents seeking a challenge for their child. There will be schools that will seize this opportunity to select at the gate. After groups 1 and 2, it soon becomes clear which students can handle this challenge with ease and which should be referred to a regular school with a soft hand. Although my group is very much in favour of differentiation in primary education, it is not in favour of differentiation between schools, but of tailor-made work within schools. This development then has implications not only for primary education but also for further education. The students will influx at a diverse language level. That gives secondary education a new challenge, say a new tax. In what way does the Secretary of State intend to resolve this? We also see the risk of increased voluntary parental contributions in order to be able to appoint teachers who can teach immersion. Social pressure then forces a parent who can't afford it to choose another school. This removes the principle of equality in our primary education. In addition, however, the legislative proposal does not provide a precondition, other than the amount of time in which the immersion education may be given. That raises a lot of questions. Do we have a native speaker in the foreign language that will give Dutch history? Or do we have pabo teachers who are going to teach history in English, German or French? It is clear that my group is not in favour of immersion in primary education. That does not mean that my group does not understand the underlying idea. At a young age, it is easier to learn a language, as it is said. Is that right? I read some conclusions from a review of the research literature, done by the University of Leiden, about the effect of early English on primary school. It looked at the effects of full and partial immersion education and early language learning. "Both from research into immersion education and regular vvto, it is known that with the same amount of input students who start later can perform better in all aspects of language skills than children who start early. Late starters learn faster because they are further in their cognitive development and also because they use skills they have developed in the first language. Children who start earlier perform as well as and sometimes better than students who start later, because they have had substantially more input and even than not always. This contradicts what is known from research on bilingualism and learning a second language outside the school context. That is where the hypothesis "young is better" is confirmed. But these results should not simply be applied to learning a foreign language in a formal educational situation, in which the amount and variety of input are determined by the curriculum. At the end of secondary education, early start-ups in immersion education only resemble certain forms of listening skills." This is a firm conclusion: there is virtually no benefit from early immersion education. This seems to support the idea that these positive results come more from gifted children who can use an additional challenge than from immersion education itself. This at least raises doubts about the bill. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Does he know this research from the University of Leiden? What is his reaction to these findings? As has been said, my group understands the underlying idea. What my group does not understand is the following argument from the Secretary of State: 'For economic reasons, it is better to learn a foreign language as soon as possible'. The sooner, the better, the thought seems. Minister Asscher is preparing a law that makes it possible to speak a foreign language in child care 50% of the time. In fact, I wonder how that will be measured in practice, but we will talk about that in the context of the legislative proposal. I quote the Secretary of State again: 'This bill offers young people a better chance of finding jobs in multinationals'. The Dutch have a better chance of finding jobs in multinational companies. What kind of problem are we gonna solve here? I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State. Do we have a shortage of Dutch people working at a multinational? If that's the point, why don't we give Chinese, Arabic, Russian or Spanish? French and German are not even among the top ten languages. Then why didn't the Secretary of State choose one of these languages? Most of all, I find the underlying assumption that we are doing so badly with our foreign language education. I am constantly hearing the surprises of the mastery of foreign languages by Dutch people throughout my life abroad. We learn the basics of German, English, French and also Spanish. In secondary education, Chinese or other languages are often offered. The Dutchman is the leader in the mastery of foreign languages. 75% of the Dutch say they master a second language well. Once again, I ask the Secretary of State what problem we are solving here. What is so pressing that we have to implement this bill on the basis of questionable investigations? Is our language teaching in the Netherlands so bad that Dutch people cannot have a foreign career? Otherwise, I know enough people who have settled for work across the border, not only in Flanders. Here is a bill that strengthens the division in education, has unknown effects on children with a language disadvantage, has no proven added value and, in general, may not damage Dutch language development, but certainly does not strengthen and enrich our beautiful language. When the SP Group takes stock of the situation, it concludes that it is highly doubtful that this bill will make a positive contribution. We wish at least a long-term investigation into the gaps in the existing investigations. Until then, it is not clear that immersion education at a young age is actually more effective than regular language learning. Because I started with her, I also like to close with a short quote by Paulien Cornelisse. She describes a contemporary conversation. "Helder? Yes. No, if I ask "clear?', You have to answer "clear." Okay. Clear? Clear." I look forward with interest to the answer given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u24	I took up the research of the Education Council some time ago. What Mrs Gerkens says is true. The Dutch experience of their own language skills is high. Many respondents indicate that they are themselves at the level of an advanced one. But when you check whether they are, they often turn out to be at the level of a beginner or an advanced one. Other research from 1998 shows that many companies are dissatisfied with the mastery of foreign languages by Dutch people and that is why they are already opting for foreigners. This certainly applies to large companies and now also to small businesses, for which language management is important. Small businesses have to export more and more, and so on. Aren't we wrong to linger in that adagium that our language mastery in the Netherlands is so good? According to the Education Council, that's not true. Don't we make a mistake if we assume it's okay and then just leave it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u25	I am glad that Mr Bruijn answers a question I asked the Secretary of State. You can also ask yourself what is the reason for the lack of language control that the Education Council finds. If that's the problem, is this the solution? That's the question. The research of the University of Leiden shows that immersion education has an advantage only if you give more than 50% of the education time immersion education and thus start early. So this bill doesn't solve that problem, because then you have to look much earlier at how we can strengthen education at a later age when, as it turns out, students also learn it easily. We do not have a discussion here about bilingual education in secondary education, it is really about early start-ups. It has been said that this has no advantage. If Mr Bruijn says there is a problem, I would be happy to go along with him. I still think, however, that this is not the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u26	A little correction. Leiden's research shows that the advantage is limited and increases as the percentage is increased. I asked the government to use the percentage as a guideline, not as a ceiling, and perhaps to increase it in the future. I think we're on the same page. The higher the percentage of immersion education, the greater the benefit. This is also apparent in Leiden, just as the study of the Education Council showed earlier. If we do not fail future generations by misquoteing the research and saying 'let's not allow foreign language education', this is already happening in 1,000 schools in the Netherlands because parents and teachers are convinced, together with employers, that this is essential for our economy as well as for our social culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr Bruijn has just presented a number of conclusions which I do not agree with. It's a bit of a misdemeanor. First of all, the SP is not an opponent of foreign language education. We are talking about immersion education here. Mr Bruijn proposes that, if possible, the percentage of immersion education should be increased as soon as possible. However, my experience is that where bilingual education is given, mostly in the lower education system, students in upper education do not know the terms of the profession in Dutch. Then we come to a completely different discussion, namely the one about whether we should still keep Dutch as a language or not. Mr Bruijn is prepared to enter into this discussion. My answer to that is: yes, our language is rich enough to preserve. We need to be strong and powerful in that. So I still do not think that this solves the problem that Mr Bruijn believes there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Nooren on her maiden speech. I look forward to a further exchange of views with her on this and many other issues. I've been considering doing my 15% contribution in a foreign language, but I realized that this isn't an elementary school. In his book The things have their secret the physicist Arie van den Beukel describes the Delft marriage. The male technician in the book hears from his wife that she is facing a dilemma. When she explains it, he says it's not that hard to solve. He says, if A is better than B, you have to choose A and when B is better, choose B. She asks: but what do you do if A is just a little bit better than B? His answer to that is: then you still choose A. He adds: if A and B are exactly as good, then it doesn't matter what you choose; so there is no dilemma. His wife knows there's no pin to get in, but she also knows it doesn't work that way in reality. My group is experiencing such a dilemma in this legislative proposal. Is introducing the possibility of offering a small part of the education in a foreign language....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Or is it the other way around? Or doesn't it matter? We have to cut that knot here, but we do so without having any clarity about the consequences in every respect. Some fellow Members here seem to have it much easier. For them, A is better than B. Or vice versa. Or at least a little bit better. Or it doesn't matter. But like the woman in the example of Van den Beukel, I feel that it is not that simple. Since we still have to say "A" or "B," I'm gonna break up some overlapping questions. The first question is: does the provision of teaching time in English, German or French improve or worsen language development? We have seen both points of view in the written procedure and in the debate so far. In both cases, investigations are presented. After all, even in science, every heretic has his or her letter. Many of these investigations do not concern the specific situation of this bill, whether in part or in part. In addition, the results are often nuanced. It appears to depend on various factors and to differ between target groups. The results often give insight, but are not necessarily statistically decisive. Nor will the ongoing pilot provide a conclusive answer to this question. The answer is probably that it is not possible to say in advance whether there will be improvement or deterioration in general. Under the right circumstances, it seems to be working out well. Under less favourable conditions, it could still be disappointing. That as such is no reason not to do it, but perhaps a reason not to do it everywhere, or at least not everywhere in the same way. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he would like to have a positive and negative assessment of the learning effects when monitoring developments in this area. This naturally leads to a second question: does it increase or reduce the division in education? If it depends on different factors, for example, does the background situation of students play a role? Some say that it makes it harder for children with a language disadvantage in Dutch. Others claim that they blossom in English teaching. It seems to us that there is probably no compelling conclusion to be drawn. The division in education depends mainly on other factors, such as a stimulating environment in the parental home, the extent to which pupils are confronted with knowledge and ideas, the extent to which they are free from burdensome factors such as hunger, home conflicts, etc. There's one more thing. Even if it were to be the case that this bill mainly meets the talented, promising children, and even if it would lead to more differences between schools, it has not yet been said that it is a bad proposal. My group is a fervent advocate of increasing opportunities for everyone and making room for talent. This starts with equal opportunities, especially as far as the responsibility of the government is concerned. However, this is not achieved by limiting everyone equally, but by giving pupils as much space as possible and by increasing the offer in such a way that it is fruitful for each group or pupil. If this means that extra money is needed for certain types of school or certain groups with, for example, pupils from disadvantaged areas, we would like to support it. In our view, however, there is an undesirable leveling if you do not allow it, because it is impossible or impossible to pay for some students or for some schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u29	I understand Mr Ganzevoort's thinking. Many opponents of this bill were given the impression that there is a kinnesinne and that it is not awarded to children who can learn well. I understand from Mr Ganzevoort's speech that he is also in favour of differentiation in education. Shouldn't we look much more at customization in education? Then we would no longer have to ship out students who need more challenge, let me just call it "the same kind of education in a foreign language." Let's just make sure they get really challenging education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u30	I understand that Mrs Gerkens feels addressed, because in this section I did, among other things, go against her vision. However, I do not understand that she gives that an emotional charge. It's not about kinnesinne or anything, it's about an important question. Do you think that all students should receive education at exactly the same level? There is actually a race to the bottom, because education is then given at the lowest possible level, the level that is feasible everywhere and for everyone. Or do you want to make room for differentiation by allowing this to be done in schools for which it is currently organized and also financially possible to be honest about it? Of course, I fully agree with Mrs Gerkens that you would like all the other schools to have the room to get to that higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u31	The division described here by Mr Ganzevoort is even stronger than that of my speech. Mr. Ganzevoort says I react emotionally. That's interesting, because I'm just saying that this is sometimes thrown. The point is that, within primary education, more attention and more money should be paid to children with more capacities than the middle class. I'm an ardent supporter of that. Perhaps there should be more money there than children who perform less than the middle class. I regret that Mr Ganzevoort says that it can be a solution to just have a few schools of foreign language education. After all, I want the school itself to be differentiated. We have beautiful primary schools. Children of different social classes with different possibilities and abilities grow there. We must avoid a growing distinction between schools where it is easy to learn foreign languages and schools where it is not and where a student has to go when things are a little more difficult. We don't want that. We want to differentiate within the school, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u32	In this way, Mrs Gerkens is making a bit of a caricature of the discussion. In my view, we fully agree on the importance of further differentiation within schools. That's not the point of the discussion at all. The discussion is about whether we want to ban schools from offering part of foreign language teaching. It's about that point. Her objection to this bill is not that schools should do so, but that they should be allowed to do so. She wants to ban it. I think that's a race to the bottom, and we shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u33	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u34	I think it is a fantastic way of thinking about Mr. Ganzevoort. Our law states that we have education in Dutch. That's the law. Actually, this law already contradicts that, but okay, so it's in the law. I don't want to ban anything. The Secretary of State wants to make something possible, but my group is not convinced that it has added value to primary education. That's not proven. As Mr Ganzevoort said beautifully at the beginning of his speech, there are still so many questions about which research is true or not. I would point out that the side effects are dangerous. It's not about banning. It's about making it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u35	One could also call that rethinking. In this legislative proposal, the SP Group wants to stop the possibility from being allowed. That's a choice. It would not be ours, because we think that the enlargement and all the benefits that it could have deserve all the attention. However, the question remains whether the Secretary of State would like the monitoring to assess the factors that influence the learning effect positively and negatively and what policy advice might or should result from it. This brings us to the third question: is there more or less direction needed for schools that want this? Some people think it is right that schools should be able to choose for themselves, taking into account their own possibilities, the pupils' population and so on. Others fear that the language management of teachers is insufficient, that it leads to an increase in the parental contribution through the back door, that the government can increase the percentage as it pleases, etc. Let me summarize the debate. This question is not so much about the lack of factual insight into how it will work out, which was more true in the first two questions, but above all about the political consideration of how much freedom and professional responsibility schools should have in organising their education. And although we can certainly be concerned about that, the question is whether these concerns should be addressed in legal regulations or whether a good supervisory regime is the right way forward. On this point, I would like a response from the Secretary of State. My group sees indications that offering part of foreign language teaching can help improve the language development of pupils and increase their international opportunities, whether economic, cultural, personal or scientific. However, my group recognises the risks highlighted by others and therefore calls on the government to undertake to provide differentiated insights into the effects for different groups of pupils in the monitoring process. We believe that this bill A is probably a little better than B in many situations, but we would like the Secretary of State, who, as an alderman, was already working to combat language disadvantages among pupils, to keep a close eye on the fact that the freedom that schools are given now ultimately benefits pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. The position of English in our culture and in our business is getting stronger. This is not only about English, but also about German and French, but in reality it is more about English. It is therefore logical that education should respond to this. We believe that this bill, which aims to give 15% of education in English, German or French, is a good step. In the end, it is the school's participation council that decides whether to say yes or no to this type of education. This is preceded by a wide-ranging discussion involving parents and teachers. We welcome these contours, but this does not mean that great care is not required in the further implementation of this bill. We support the strengthened position of English in primary education. At the same time, we are concerned about the quality that is being delivered if no demands are made on teachers. Honestly, I don't understand why the Secretary of State is so generous on this point. How long has it been since the political colleges forced students of Mbo-3 to be included in the educational academies? That was an experiment that was stopped very quickly. We all know that the level of a whole generation of teachers, who are now teaching in primary education, is minimally prepared for its difficult task and that it takes a great deal of training and further training to keep these teachers in mind. The government has intervened in the quality of teacher training in particular. All the appreciation for that. The Teachers' Agenda has meant a great deal to improve the quality of teaching academies and teachers in secondary education. The teaching academies have now introduced a calculation test, a language test, a history test, a geography test and a physics test, which have to be done to a large extent in advance. But still, even in the new educational academies, 40% of students, and even more in the big cities, have a mbo background. Those students' English hasn't gone beyond their vmbo background. We are already telling those students that they are supposed to be able to give English language at primary school after the teaching academy. Do we know how much of the time the educational academies have in their curriculum is spent on English? In total, the curriculum of a pedagogical academy consists of 240 ECTS credits (European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System). Of these, three ECTS credits are for English. And of these three there are two for the didactics and one for language teaching. So it's actually just negligible. The people who come from the increased educational academies, but English did not go along with them, are expected to be able to give this type of education in the near future, possibly with some further training. I think that we expect a lot, even though there are studies in which it is said that everything is going very well. Why shouldn't you guarantee that quality more? Other colleagues also asked this. Why not make demands on the level of teachers who are going to teach these classes in the bilingual schools? We make all kinds of demands on the students, but why is that not also true for the teachers in this respect? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. I would ask how he intends to guarantee that quality in the years to come. After all, we can assume that this form of education will increase in size. The real bilingual, Dutch-English education is at the door; it is now being experimented with. I have a second concern, namely the current bilingual schools, the Dutch Frisian schools. I can do a bit in the Frisian language, I kin no wool some sizze yn it Frysk. So I said I'll translate it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u37	And it's okay, because it's an official language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u38	That's why I'm doing it. I kind of like that, too. So I say in the Frisian language: Der binne twaltalische skuollen and what within the possibilities foar trije taligens. The situaasje yn Switselan learns that that mooglik is wannear,'t der in oare didaktyk folge wurdt. That is the position of Italian and Reto-Roman. Der is der in soad underfining mei trijetaligens we'rt we fan learne kinne.] So I said that we need the didactics that have been very much developed in Switzerland for trilingualism, often concerning the position of Italian or Reto-Roman, in order to enable multilingual or English teaching in today's bilingual schools. This also requires a great deal of training. To be honest, I am not very impressed by what teachers currently working at Friesian-Dutch bilingual schools receive at the educational academies. In my view, this is minimal. A third concern is the care of the disadvantaged pupil. It's already been spoken in more places. I think we all agree that this proposal could be a very good way of bringing these pupils to the same level or even giving them some lead. It must not be the case that disadvantaged schools will have to drop out. However, in order to do this, you need a very specific form of didactics. It needs to be taught and we do very little about it. I don't really understand that. It cannot be that, if we make multilingual education ever more possible, disadvantaged schools will not dare to start doing so because preparation is too difficult for them. The position of English in education is becoming stronger and stronger. This applies to higher education: are there any masters that are not offered in English? This is true in secondary education, with the bilingual schools. It also applies to primary education. This also means something for the position of Dutch as a cultural language. At the openings in September of the academic year there was hardly any Dutch left. I challenge the cabinet to come up with a coherent vision on the use of English and the quality of teacher training, and thus on the position of Dutch. Now we start from constantly new facts, without being able to test them against a coherent framework for how we want to maintain our Dutch as a cultural language. I'm closing up. Tomorrow morning I have a discussion with students about the question: what do you want, more English or better education? I hope the answer is both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u39	I find that interesting. I would be happy to be present for that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u40	You're cordially invited. An early train it is!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u41	I'm gonna see if I can. I'm a little surprised. On the one hand, I hear Mr Pijlman expressing the concern that my group also shares, namely that we are getting a complete annihilation of our society. Indeed, English is almost becoming the teaching language at the university. On the other hand, I hear Mr Pijlman say that he has no objection to the introduction of immersion education, whereas we do not really know what we want with our Dutch language yet. Mr Pijlman therefore calls for a debate. Isn't that order a little weird?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u42	I can very well imagine that reaction. I think that's a struggle myself. On the one hand, you want to make the conditions much stricter under which this immersion education can take place. I would also like us to discuss with each other the position of English and Dutch in our overall education. Mrs Gerkens argued that, too. On the other hand, I find it extremely difficult to say no to a school that really wants to do so, which has been said by the co-determination council that this is the vision of the future and whose teachers are behind it and willing to train themselves. Once again, I have said the necessary things about the quality of it. So I would like to support that enthusiasm and, at the same time, set a number of quality requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u43	Mr. Chairman. I am very surprised to hear Mr Pijlman do what I have always looked up to: use the second rich language here. It is my job to serve that jo dat no al dien ha. It has been very good to me that Mr Pijlman did. Miskien kinne we hjirmei nor wool ris prouder. Let's talk about the bill. Discussions about language very often have a strong emotional tone. The average Dutchman doesn't know that much, but the average Belgian or the average Fries all the more. There is, of course, a need to use the sense in legislation, but it is also important to take account of feelings and sensitivities. In a world with rapidly fading borders, especially in Europe, it is a sensible and sensible starting point for the European Commission that every European should learn at least two foreign languages in addition to his mother tongue. The Netherlands doesn't really do much about that. In that respect, I do not fully sympathise with Mrs Gerkens. I think that in our schools most students learn English, but hardly any more French or German. The Dutchman generally takes the pragmatic view that English is the modern lingua franca, that the whole world has to learn English and that everything is actually unnecessary, except for hobbyists. Learning English is therefore generally recognised as important. A human learns a language best at a very young age. Growing up bilingual from the beginning turns out to be an advantage in many ways. This applies to further language acquisition, but also in general in order to be able to switch flexibly and perhaps even, as is claimed, to reduce the risk of dementia. Friesland (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Ideally, this means that a primary school works with 40% Dutch, 40% Frisian and 20% English language. This is strictly separated in day-sharing, so that pupils can also make a clear distinction. Not that this ideal is achieved everywhere, it is not even even possible, but it does mean that in Friesland English is also used as a language besides Dutch and Frisian, already. Furthermore, the Secretary of State himself writes that in the Netherlands there are as many as 1,000 primary schools that teach early foreign languages. That sounds like: being offered a foreign language as a profession. But in the early groups, of course, it is often a form of English as a teaching language in practice. 'Cause learning lessons isn't on the agenda there yet. English as a teaching language is therefore used in practice in Dutch schools here and there, already now. It probably makes sense to do that and to start early. That's what I'm assuming after all the tests I've seen. However, Friesland also shows something else besides the trilingual and in itself successful approach. This approach is successful for all three languages used, and also for handsome and less handsome students, although the quality question is also made very clear: who should give English and can that person? That question has already been discussed at length here this afternoon in connection with the legislative proposal, and I am happy to support it. That question needs to be answered. However, Friesland also shows that it is extremely difficult to maintain and further develop a language when a language is also used that is considered dominant. The pragmatic choice of many then falls on the dominant language. The dominant language also begins to affect the sense of standard among those who do choose to use the weaker language. Whether that is bad is a matter of personal opinion and feeling. This brings us to the emotional aspect in the discussions about language. Those who have the ideal of Europe as a whole speaking English and prefer to see diversity disappear have little to worry about. Developments go that way unnoticed. Anyone who prefers a Europe with sufficient knowledge of English and preferably one or two foreign languages, but also and above all knowledge of their own language, and who chooses the diversity of Europe with its diversity of languages that have sometimes been used as a cultural language since the Middle Ages, but sometimes only under the influence of nineteenth-century romance have been developed into a cultural language, must consider the effect of measures, especially in primary education. I believe that governments are responsible for the language choices of education, and that they should not just leave that to fashion grills. I assume the Secretary of State agrees with me in principle. I also believe that governments are responsible for guaranteeing the use and development of their own language or languages, and that they should use education, but also their own language attitude and language. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? I therefore believe that the Dutch government has a responsibility for the Frisian language, for which a number of European treaties have been signed, as well as for the Dutch language. Surely the Secretary of State will agree with me. Like Switzerland and Northern Germany, the Netherlands could have chosen to use the High German language as a cultural language. However, since the high Middle Ages it has used the western variant of Lower German as a cultural language and developed especially in the seventeenth century. Dutch is intangible heritage. And now for the concrete bill. I see no objection to teaching children multilingualism from a very young age. First of all, this means respect for the mother tongue, whether it be Dutch, Frisian, Turkish, Kurdish or Arabic. That respect for a child's own language is not always present in the Netherlands and has certainly not always been present in circles of the government. Immersion in English in addition to the use of Dutch fits the principles and helps to internalize English at a high level. However, there must be a limit to this. If the proportion of English in the schools becomes too large, for example 40% to 50%, then I am convinced that English will become the dominant language and that Dutch as a weak language will soon lose its function as a cultural language in all areas, thereby also losing the appropriate expression possibilities. That process seems to be very advanced in the scientific world. These possibilities of expression will be much more limited if we start teaching various subjects in primary education only in English and English terminology. Can the Secretary of State agree with me? The effect of a dominant, strong language used alongside a weaker language is very large. We see that in many places in the world. My conclusion will be clear. The principle of immersion of young children in another language can work well and is recommended. Therefore, I support the fact that this is allowed in the law. However, I do not want to give carte blanche for a replacement of the mandatory use of Dutch or Frisian by using English in an unlimited extent in the long term. A language of 15% English, French or German, as currently stated as a maximum in the AMvB, does not raise any objections to me. However, in order for the government to be able to increase that percentage indefinitely per AMvB, it seems irresponsible to me. Does the Secretary of State not agree that there should be a clear upper limit in the law in order to continue to be responsible for their own language as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u44	I can largely go along with your plea, but the Leiden study, which has been quoted many times, shows that students in programmes in which 50% to 100% of the time is taught in a foreign language, have a temporary decline in the performance of the mother tongue at first, but no longer at all. So the question is whether we should be afraid of a possible increase in the future. Besides, we might be able to talk about hanging the AMvB here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u45	So far, English has been used on a relatively small scale in society, a society which is still largely Dutch speaking. If we transform our primary schools into schools where 50% of the time is taught in English, then the whole social language situation has changed completely. I am indeed convinced that this will create a position for Dutch as a minority language, the weaker language. English is dominant in the world and is experienced by a lot of people as more important, and therefore more meaningful to use and learn. If we choose to do this, I think we will go there. I know the situation from my own point of view. I think that in the long run the situation in the Netherlands will not be much different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. Part of the teaching time in primary education must therefore also be given in English, German or French; that is what this is about. Let me start with the background to the bill. In the explanatory statement, the Secretary of State writes the following. "English has been chosen because English is the lingua franca in international society and is therefore crucial for our contacts with foreign speakers. English, German and French are also the three official working languages of the European Union and therefore it is relevant to master one or more of these languages." The EU has so-called multilingualism objectives. One is that every European should speak two other languages in addition to its own mother tongue. Mr Ten Hoeve has already referred to this. As early as 2002, the European Commission talked about this. She then wrote in an action plan that all pupils should be encouraged to learn at least two European languages in addition to their mother tongue. In this context, the PVV Group would like to ask the Secretary of State to what extent these multilingualism objectives of the European Union have contributed to the drafting of this bill. Does the Secretary of State really consider the bill to be a good idea and feasible, or is it, after all, a product of the wishes of Brussels? The part of the teaching time which schools are allowed to give in English, German or French in addition to Dutch, or the Frisian language in Friesland, is determined by the State Secretary as a percentage in a General Measure of Management. In the first instance, this will be a maximum of 15%. This is a percentage resulting from an opinion of the Education Council and from the pilot project 15% early foreign language education. Why was an AMvB chosen? Does this mean that the Secretary of State can adjust this percentage whenever he wishes? I understand that the Court will only be informed about an adjustment of the percentage. What are the Secretary of State's expectations? Does he expect this percentage to rise, and then how much? Is it also possible that this will decrease in the future? In other words, when and on what basis will the Secretary of State decide to adjust that percentage? There is, of course, nothing wrong with learning foreign languages. In fact, it can be encouraged. Besides subjects such as geography, mathematics and history, language is also of great value. The PVV is of the opinion that Dutch as a dominant language should not be replaced here in the Netherlands. That position as a dominant language must remain. However, English is becoming a dominant language around the world, or perhaps it is already. Multilingual education, or in other words, the engulation of education that this actually amounts to in practice, will only encourage this. Experiments have also shown that, starting with multilingual education, the desire to give education in full and only in that foreign language quickly arises, especially in the case of a dominant foreign language such as English. If we allow this to happen, if this development continues, the Dutch language will in fact be reduced to a language that is only spoken at the kitchen table. Let us take a look at Flanders as an example. There one has experience of a language struggle. One of the negative effects of multilingual education in Flanders is the fear of a new dual society. Belgium, Flanders, has experience with such a dual society and may still exist. It could be. In any case, I am referring to a society in which the elite speak fancy French and the ordinary citizen has to be saved in simple Dutch. The further ensnelling of education will ensure that English will eventually become the language of the elite and Dutch will become the language of the street. We are also talking here about pupils, children, who of course are far from being taught in Dutch. You could even say they're still in the early stages. You can even ask yourself whether anyone is ever learned in the area of the mother tongue or the dominant language of the country in which they live.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u47	We know Mr Kops as an eloquent man.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u49	I'm asking him about the street language. Is he aware of how many English young people use in the street language? Maybe it's nice to listen to that sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u50	I will. Thank you. I told you, you might wonder if you're ever gonna learn anything about your mother tongue or the dominant language of the country you live in. Students, children, should first develop Dutch. There must be sufficient time and energy, because in general the mastery of Dutch is not very good. In higher education and scientific education, students appear to make a relatively large number of linguistic errors. In HBO, students make an average of 81 linguistic errors per completed A4 and in academic education, that is on average half. Those are big numbers. Why do I say that? If even such students, i.e. at a later age, already make so many mistakes and master Dutch so badly, is it wise to shift some of the attention in primary education, at a relatively early age, to foreign language learning through multilingual education? Does the Secretary of State not think that multilingual education will be at the expense of the necessary attention that should go to learning Dutch? Apart from that, of course, the question arises as to what is really going on with the teachers. They have to start teaching the lessons eventually. They're in front of the class. I'm just saying: geography in English, history in German, mathematics in French. With all due respect, is this gonna work for the teachers? Research carried out by the Education Inspectorate in March 2015 shows that although the level and quality of the pabo improves, it is far from perfect. One in five graduates of the pabo indicates that they are dissatisfied with the quality of the training. One third of graduates argue that the training did not enable them to prepare sufficiently for professional practice. They also find it difficult to provide suitable care for pupils and to tailor lessons to those who are lagging behind or possibly ahead. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? Because in the end, these graduates will be in front of the classroom. How does the Secretary of State see fit that some of these graduates may eventually also, possibly, have to teach in English, German or French? The number of pabo students is also falling dramatically. This year there are 30% fewer applications than last year, so the number of graduate teachers from this new set is decreasing. Apparently, the motivation to stand in front of the class also decreases, while there is anything but a surplus of teachers. How does the Secretary of State, overlooking all this, see multilingual education in practice in practice? Are there enough teachers? Is this gonna work? Are teachers still required to take a language course in English, German or French, or is there perhaps some kind of language course being integrated into the course on the pabo? How does the Secretary of State see this? The PVV is, as it should be known, critical of this bill. The attention, especially in primary education, should in principle go to learning and mastering Dutch, to our beautiful Dutch language. Poet and university lecturer Piet Gerbrandy says: "Whoever wants to participate at the highest level in our country, both in science and in social positions, must first and foremost concentrate on a complete mastery of Dutch." Gerbrandy has argued in favour of stopping the advance of English in scientific education and maintaining Dutch. We must also stop this advance in primary education. I conclude, Mr President, and I would like to say a few words to all the citizens of the Netherlands: sign mainly on sign.no level.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u51	No, Mr Kops, this is out of order. May I once again point out that communications or calls that are out of order cannot be tolerated here? I am looking at the leader of the PVV group, because this is the second time today. I'm counting on her to keep an eye on things in that regard. I note that none of the Members wishes to speak in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-8.u52	I'm suspending the meeting pending the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
