ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, the people in the gallery, but also the people who are following this debate in a different way. Of course, I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. Ten speakers have spoken for this debate. We have four minutes of speaking time per person. In the first term, we allow up to three interruptions per person between Members of Parliament. These interruptions consist of a maximum of one question and possibly a supplementary question. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks, who has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Research Council for Security deserves compliments for a thorough report. Groningen feels recognized by this report, but the urgency you would hope for in the government after such a report is unfortunately not there. The minister thinks he's done a lot already. Much researched, much consulted, much announced, much furnished, but in practice little happens. The gas valve is still more open than safe. The damage settlement still drives Groningers to despair. Of the 30,000 to 170,000 houses that need preventive reinforcement, not one is ready, and almost three years after the earthquake at Huizinge. The Chamber today adopted a number of recommendations from the OVV in its amendments. I'd like to know from the Minister how he handles this. One of the recommendations of the OVV concerns the independence of state supervision. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, that must be more than writing down that State supervision of the Mines (SodM) is now really very independent. Will the Minister consider making the SodM an independent administrative body (zbo), as is the nuclear authority? Or maybe it could come under another ministry? How and how quickly will the Minister radically redesign the gas building? What impact does that have on him and his gas roundabout strategy? The Minister sees the promotion of acceptance as his task and as the task of the National Coordinator Groningen. What does this mean? Support for the current level of gas extraction is not in the interest of Groningen, the Netherlands or the world. It's only in the best interest of the treasury, of Shell and of Exxon. Will the Minister examine the impact of natural gas on climate change and take this into account in the 2015 Energy Report? Why is the Cabinet using the Crisis and Recovery Act for the entire earthquake area in Groningen? Municipalities and provinces are losing powers and monument protection is becoming less. The Minister wants to cut red tape, but these are democratic, secondary governments, the province, the water authorities and the municipalities. Another point is the National Coordinator Groningen. Does the Minister really want to appoint some sort of stooge boss for this, in his view, perhaps difficult province? In any case, GroenLinks wants the coordinator to be appointed jointly with the province in an equivalent manner. How does the Minister feel about that? Is he willing to appoint this person along with the province of Groningen? If there is to be a National Coordinator Groningen, put them in the Home Office! Shouldn't a ministry other than EZ also have active shareholdership? The Minister explains that the Ministry of Finance cannot be. Well, I guess it's just another ministry. Put down the direction for strengthening buildings at Minister Blok's office. I would like to hear a response to all these proposals. Then I get to the gas cipher bingo. Can the Minister explain once again how, on the basis of the advice he received, he first came to 42.5 billion cuub, then to 39.4 and now to 36.4? Is it really about the safety of the Groningen people? Isn't it just about the money? If it is only about the safety of the Groningers, why not limit the extraction of gas to what the Minister himself said on 12 February 2015, namely that in normal winters 21 plus 2 billion cubic meters would be required to the maximum? That's why I'm saying get a strategy to speed up fossil recovery. It will sound familiar to the Minister. A large part of the fossil reserves must remain underground worldwide in order to reduce climate impacts. So at least start with gas-free neighborhoods and then see how you can roll out that concept further across the Netherlands. Keeping fossil reserves in the ground and reducing greenhouse gas emissions is good for the climate, good for the economy and good for the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u3	Mr. Chairman. The report of the Research Council for Security finally meant recognition for many Groningers. Recognition of the feeling that they lived very strongly there, that their safety played hardly any part in gas extraction for years. We have widely said in the Chamber that this must be changed. We must move towards a fundamental review of the way in which we deal with gas extraction. The Council of State also contributes to this. He's got a line drawn by the gas extraction at Loppersum. The judge has thus taken a step that has not yet been taken by the coalition parties and the minister. I was initially concerned about the waterbed effect, namely that what we are going to win less in Loppersum, we are going to win more elsewhere. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has promised that gas extraction in all of Groningen will go down. Unfortunately it is still above the security of supply, but step by step we are getting closer. However, a few things remain unclear. The mining in Loppersum should never be above 56.4 billion cubic metres this year, according to the Minister. When I read that, I was wondering, is "never" the same thing as "never"? So is it never conceivable, or is it really impossible, that the extraction of gas will come out of that? If that is really impossible, or unthinkable, or never imaginable, then we can also legally adjust the ceiling to it, so that all those who do not listen daily to the debates we are having in this Chamber about the extraction of gas know where they stand? If I read only the Minister's letter, his 'never' after the comma doesn't seem to be so harsh. After all, additional winnings may still be made to keep the clusters in Loppersum open or to supplement them for the security of supply. So what's the value of that new ceiling? When do people end up getting clarity? Who decides when extra gas may or may not be extracted? Then I come to speak about the Regional Commissioner. The Groningers had hardly any influence on the extraction of gas in their province. The OVV describes it in such a way that most of the talk was about residents rather than residents. The gas parties were hardly open to criticism and were very busy with their own policies. The gas building is described as a closed stronghold. In the company Groningen that manages the gas extraction from the Groningenveld, the Empire and the NAM are located but the region cannot talk. That is why D66 wants the region to have a real position, anchored in the decision-making process in the gas building, a deputy from Groningen who has gas in his portfolio and who, if necessary, can answer to the people under whose feet we are going to win this gas every week. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Is he also willing to consider how the involvement of the local government can also be strengthened in the small fields?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u4	As far as I know, the King's commissioner was in the gas building until 2007. That has not helped us to get into the current situation. I therefore wonder whether this is such a wise decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u5	The King's commissioner is not elected. The deputy is elected and can be held accountable by his own electorate on a weekly basis. That could make a huge difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u6	I think it's better to have someone who looks inside critically on the outside than someone who works from the inside and then has to take care of things on the outside. I think the Commissioner of the King, Max van den Berg, and the deputy William Moorlag have done an excellent job in the past period. It wasn't about that. So I don't really see much in the proposal, if I'm being honest. After all, we tried until 2007 and changed it precisely because it did not work well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u7	If Mr Vos does not believe that taking part in the discussion can change the course, I wonder a little what he is doing in this Parliament. Moreover, it was Mr Moorlag himself who, at the hearing, where I presented this idea to the regional parties, was very excited to get that involvement from the gas building itself. That is where the decisions are finally taken. So there can really be stood up for the Groningers. The OVV also shows...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u8	Excuse me. Mrs Klever also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u9	Mrs Van Veldhoven called for greater participation of the population. That is what my group wants. But we all know what the people want, and that is the gas crane even farther back than we talked about in the Chamber. The population wants the gas crane back to 12 billion cubic metres and even to 0 billion cubic metres. Is Mrs Van Veldhoven also prepared to accept that consequence? After all, it says that the public must have more say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u10	D66 believes, indeed, that the public should be given a greater say, because until now it has been decided mainly on them and not with them. The question of what level of gas extraction is then appropriate also comes to the point of security of supply. The reports differ greatly in this respect, but let people talk about it, so that they feel that they are being taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u11	I understand that Mrs Van Veldhoven would like people to be allowed to talk, but rather not at all, when it comes to gas extraction. People are allowed to talk about the mirrors and the beads, but not about the things that really matter: the gas tap down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u12	I think it's about the gas crane in the Groningen Maatschap. As far as I am concerned, the region really needs to be involved in the decision-making process. Mrs Klever makes it a caricature for justified political reasons, but I really want people to be able to talk. That may be about the level of gas extraction. That is why I believe that the deputy should be elected and should therefore also be accountable to his electorate for what he decides. I think that's the right person and the right place to do this. As far as D66 is concerned, that gas valve is closing further. Mr. Chairman. The Research Council for Security also shows how important thorough research into the earth is. A truly independent research institute for geology is therefore needed, which can carry out research outside mining companies, and whose data the SodM can use independently to carry out its own supervisory task. Is the Minister willing to explore with the University, the KNMI and TNO how to set up a research institute for geology? In conclusion, I have a few brief questions. The WPA value of monuments is usually lower than the value they have for cultural history, but when it comes to whether renovation is in order and effective, the WPA value is often looked at. If you do that, you can basically tear down all the churches in Groningen, but I really don't think that's the idea. The cultural heritage must be well taken care of. Is the Minister prepared to include the cultural-historical value in the consideration of where and where it is going to be renovated? I would also like to know whether building standards are being developed not only for housing but also for infrastructure and industry. And will the Groningers be able to choose from several candidates for the role of Regional Commissioner, who will ensure the full implementation of all policies? It must not be another candidate from The Hague, but someone who has a great deal of support in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u13	I fully agree with D66 that cultural heritage and monuments need to be protected. How does D66 look at the ninth tranche of the Crisis and Recovery Act, bringing the earthquake area as a whole under this law? This makes it easier to demolish and the monument status is a lot less solid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u14	D66 has always been very critical of the Crisis and Recovery Act. Nor were we in favour of making it permanent, precisely because you have to look carefully at what is going on in each case and because the Crisis and Recovery Act does not always lead to an acceleration at all, but often to many more court cases. So we were not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u15	Does D66 therefore agree with GroenLinks that you could apply this to a specific project, such as the specific dyke that should reach the Eemshaven, but that you should not want to bring the area as a whole under the Crisis and Recovery Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u16	As I said, as a party, we have always been very critical of the Crisis and Recovery Act. Just look at the title. It must be about crisis and recovery. There is certainly a crisis in Groningen and there is a real need to work hard on recovery. As far as we are concerned, this recovery is not fast enough either. You often see that the Crisis and Recovery Act is being used to speed up procedures, or to circumvent procedures with the idea that things are going faster, while experience has shown that this is not achieving that result. We are therefore very critical of this, including the appointment of such an area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u17	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon, the Chamber agreed to reverse the burden of proof in the event of mining damage. This was an important step, resulting from the displeasure of the Groningen people, of residents of Twente and also of the Chamber, in particular on the action of the NAM and therefore indirectly of the Minister. The central conclusion of the Research Council for Security was that there was insufficient attention to safety in gas extraction. The suspicions of the Groningen people are deep. The rest of the Netherlands too is now very suspicious about this. I didn't mention Twente for nothing. I do not want to leave the situation in Limburg unnamed either. It is important that the cabinet really takes the conclusions and recommendations to heart. Therefore, before the summer recess, the CDA would like to discuss with the Minister the results of the risk analyses concerning the entire Groningenveld and the extraction ceiling. At the moment we would like to make this possible and ask the Minister to send his response to the analyses and advice of State supervision of the Mines to the Chamber as early as mid-June. Is the Minister prepared to do so? During the debate on the 2016 budget that the cabinet sends to Brussels, the Minister leaves three more figures on gas extraction above the market: the original 39.4 billion cub, the possible 36.4 billion cub as a result of the decision of the Council of State to reduce gas extraction and the 35 billion cub. The CDA insists that the gas extraction really needs to be reduced as soon as possible, preferably already today. I come here to safeguard the safety interest and decision-making on the extraction of gas. Are the operators and the owners the same party in the gas extraction process? In Groningen, not the NAM but the Groningen Maatschap is the owner of the license. However, according to the law, only the NAM is responsible for security, while the partnership decides on the amount that is won. The CDA wants not only the operators but also the owners of the mining licence to be jointly responsible for safety and that this is laid down in the law. It is necessary that owners feel responsible and are obliged to give sufficient space to operators to ensure safety. Is the Minister prepared to do this? With a motion I persuaded the Minister to investigate the limitation period for mining damage in Limburg. Since the Minister is coming up with a legislative proposal to amend the Mining Act this autumn, I ask him if he does not want to come forward with the proposals on limitation periods as early as September. The research of the Research Council for Security also reveals the weak role of the KNMI. The uncertainties and safety consequences did not ring a bell at the KNMI; it did not lead to the desire to carry out more research. Wouldn't it be better to create one national institute for the subsurface and natural resources, such as the BGR in Germany, instead of the two we have now, the KNMI and TNO? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. I have just heard that the D66 Group is also thinking in that direction. The Minister wants to wait for measures to be taken in the gas building until the results of the Energy Report 2015 arrive, but this afternoon the House of Representatives voted in favour of a number of amendments which, among other things, give co-governments a legal advisory right. That seems to the CDA to be a very good thing. Finally, if the Minister wants to turn mistrust into confidence in Groningen, it would be a real credit to him if he were to clean up the high gas extraction in 2013. Former Inspector-General of Mines, Jan de Jong, told last week during the hearing that the Minister did not take any action in 2013 to further reduce gas extraction nor to further increase gas extraction in other parts of the field in 2014. The Minister's failure to intervene, despite the fact that he was aware of the very high rate of mining in 2013 and State surveillance of the Mines had really advised him to reduce the extraction, the CDA remains a thorn in the eye. Minister, this won't gain you any confidence. This has to be different. So perhaps: still regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u18	Mr. Chairman. The Research Council for Security (OVV) has expressed serious criticism of the way successive Cabinets in this country have shaped the security of Groninger. The Labour Party supports this criticism. My group therefore welcomes the fact that the government also endorses the conclusions of the OVV and that the recommendations are being followed. It is a thick package of measures concerning the anchoring of the security interest, the involvement of municipalities and provinces, the repair of the damage, investments in viability and communication with residents. This package, apart from the future decision on the scale of gas extraction, should do justice to Groningen. The Chamber today adopted an amendment which allows several grounds for rejection when granting a mining permit. This gives the Minister the opportunity to take account of nature and other environmental factors, such as social support. This is an improvement on the current Mining Act. But the Minister doesn't necessarily have to take it into account. Is the Minister prepared to take an ADC test in licensing? The abbreviation "ADC" stands for alternatives, compelling interests and compensation. Such an ADC test would be an additional anchoring. I would like to hear the government's position on this. It is clear that my group would agree with that idea. The Labour Party wants to vigorously implement the recommendation of the Security Research Council to give the SodM a more independent position. My group therefore supports the cabinet proposal to legally anchor SodM's independence and advice. We choose to place the SodM further from the Ministry. This step is needed to actually restore Groninger's confidence. Such a thing should not only be confessed by mouth in this Chamber or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u19	Could my colleague from the PvdA explain that ADC test a little bit more? I remember, for example, that the financial interests of the business community in a coal power station have a considerable weight. If you really put Exxon and Shell's financial interests in gas extraction into a test, don't you have the chance that the balance will always go that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u20	As I understood during the preparation for this debate, such a test would be added to the amendment we tabled to the Mining Act. This means that the Minister must first take a decision on the basis of that law and that such an ADC test is subsidiary. There will therefore be no obstacle to making the natural and environmental factors a priority in a decision. But it is not for nothing that I first ask for the appreciation of the cabinet on this and I do not immediately say that I want to introduce this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u21	I'd like to get a few math examples of that. Maybe my colleague from the PvdA wants one too. My only experience with the coal power plants in Groningen was that the environmental and nature interests are pretty much underwhelmed. But perhaps I have misunderstood it and in this case it is very positive. I would like, perhaps together with Mr Vos, to have some more support for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u22	I do not think that calculation examples are necessary at this stage, because it is really a qualitative assessment and not a quantitative assessment. Once again, let us wait for the first term of office. Then we can discuss this further afterwards. It is also nice that Mrs Van Tongeren was on the interrupting microphone, because I was just talking about placing the SodM at a distance. The Labour Party, together with GroenLinks, intends to table a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u23	Mr Vos referred to the important amendments, including his own, which were adopted this afternoon. My group welcomes that, too. Does Mr Vos also think that these amendments should simply be incorporated into the law and that the law should be adapted and implemented in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u24	I believe that Article 84 (2) of the Constitution describes exactly how it works in this context in The Hague. Mrs Dik summarized that very adequately. I thank her for her support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u25	The Minister has informed the media that he will be discussing the bill adopted by the Chamber today, including amendments, in the Council of Ministers next Friday. I am very curious about the reaction of the Labour Party to this, because apparently it is not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u26	The last time I reviewed the Constitution was the right to an amendment to this Chamber. I refer once again to Rule 84 (2). If the cabinet wishes to talk about what has passed through here today with a large majority in the Chamber, that seems to me to be a very good thing. The Chamber and the Cabinet have different responsibilities. The Minister is, of course, free to make his own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u27	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u28	It is good that, in addition to building and safety standards that are now being developed for housing, standards are also being developed for other buildings in Groningen: industrial buildings such as shops where people reside, infrastructure and, of course, industrial installations. The latter is all the more pressing, because the call for this is growing from the business community and the municipality of Delfzijl. The Labour Party feels that things are still a little slow. What about safety in health care institutions and schools? Are those buildings safe enough? The Labour Party would like the cabinet to step up its efforts. We would also like to know whether there are evacuation standards, or are in preparation, so that local drivers know when to evacuate a building. We also know that the NAM has mapped out the condition of many buildings. To date, this data has not been shared with municipalities in the earthquake zone. It should not be the case that data providing insight into the level of security of citizens is not made available to municipal authorities. The Labour Party considers that these data should be shared with those authorities. Two final points. The KNMI is in the process of better mapping the seismic behavior of the Groningen field. On this basis, the Peak Ground Acceleration (PGA) can be calculated for the Dutch Practice Directive (NPR), excuses for the jargon. The way in which the KNMI conducts this research is not as transparent as my group would like it to be. I understand that there is close cooperation with NAM, but that municipal and provincial authorities are not involved in that process. Is that correct? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u29	Mr Vos is almost at the end of his speech, but I still have a question about what has just been put by Mr Dik. Is it unthinkable for the PvdA that the Minister withdraws the bill and thus postpones the reverse burden of proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u30	I think it would be wise to wait and see what happens next. That's how it works. I think it is quite clear that the House has said by a majority today that it is in favour of reversing the burden of proof. The Minister said he would like to discuss this with his colleagues in the cabinet. That seems to me to be a perfectly logical course of action. We'll see what the cabinet brings out. You can be assured that the Labour Party attaches great importance to this reversal of the burden of proof for the people of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u31	I can conclude that it is inconceivable for the PvdA Group to postpone the reversal of the burden of proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u32	The Labour Party attaches great importance to the reversal of the burden of proof for the people of Groningen. The way in which the group of Mrs Mulder, the CDA, preaches possible scenarios, I find interesting, but I am not going to go into that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u33	Can I get Mr Vos on my side when I propose to put together the shrinking agenda and the recovery agenda for Groningen? This will have to be partly financed by the NAM, when it comes to damage, but to some extent the Empire and the Province and perhaps other parties will have to contribute. Am I right that he's in charge of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u34	I don't think I suggested that anywhere, so no, that's not the case. I'd like to discuss it sometime. It sounds very interesting, but I didn't suggest it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u35	I believe that earlier in your speech you described more fully the development of the province. Since the Minister also refers specifically to the shrinking agenda in his letter, this offers an opportunity to hit two birds with one stone, but then there has to be money. I'm looking for a way for the Labour Party to support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u36	I did not propose it that way, and I do not see it exactly as you are proposing. But again, I'd like to go outside this room once in consultation with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u37	Mr Vos was critical of my proposal to give the Groningen people a voice at the heart of the decision-making process. I wonder how the Labour Party proposes to strengthen the position of the Groningen people at the heart of that decision-making. I haven't heard much about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u38	It is not the case that my group does not want to give the Groningers a vote in the decision-making process, as Mrs Van Veldhoven suggests. On the contrary, my group has today tabled an amendment, together with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which strengthens the position of municipalities and other local authorities in the decision-making process. We changed the law on that point. You can't think of a heavier drug. We therefore attach great importance to the local participation of the people of Groningen. But at the moment we are talking about the gas building; I would like to wait for the first term of the cabinet. I do not foresee that I can support Mrs Van Veldhoven's proposal, precisely for the reason I gave earlier. Until 2007, the Queen's commissioner was in the gas building. At that time, these decisions were taken, also among several D66 ministers; I think that everyone in The Hague has contributed in a certain way to the situation that has arisen. I don't think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u39	I understand that Mr Vos wants to strengthen the right of advice. He says you can't really do anything stronger. But you can: you can give the Groningen a voice in the heart of decision-making. I do not actually hear any real substantive argument as to why it would not be good to give the Groningen a voice at the heart of the decision-making process. For example, they can talk directly about the gas that is extracted under their feet, instead of giving an opinion on it afterwards. I am in favour of the latter, but if Mr Vos says it can't be stronger, I disagree with him on that. You can do it in the heart of decision-making. So I would like to get a substantive response as to why that would not be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u40	The heart of decision-making is, of course, here, in Parliament. We will eventually determine what is happening in the Groningen field. Groningers are very well represented here. My colleague Tjeerd van Dekken is now in the Chamber. He's from Groningen. Henk Nijboer is also from Groningen. And I see Deputy William Moorlag from Groningen watching now. So I am not worried about that at all. I think that the heart of the decision-making process is here and that we should take the right decisions together on the extraction of gas in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u41	I would like to use a second interruption for this. If Mr Vos looks at it this way and says that the heart of the decision-making process is here, he and his colleague Tjeerd van Dekken could have made sure that we had adjusted the ceiling of gas extraction here much earlier. In recent years, too, the Chamber has not done so. The record winning took place in 2013. Mr Vos could have done something about it, but he didn't. So maybe it's not such a crazy idea to give the Groningen themselves a more direct voice about the gas being won under their feet. I still do not hear a substantive argument from Mr Vos as to why that would not be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u42	When we started this term in the Chamber, the Labour Party was the first to start to reduce gas production. Mrs Van Veldhoven's group was also present early. As Members of Parliament, we have all found in retrospect that a scandalous 54 billion cub has been won. Mrs van Veldhoven must therefore do justice to the situation, because she knows as well as I do that we have seen it afterwards and have been unable to do anything about it at that time. Then we reduced production to 42.5 billion cubic metres. We have all noticed here that we would like it to be further down. It is now 33 billion cubic metres per year; we have gone from 54 billion to 33 billion. That happened in steps, not fast enough and not far enough to my liking. But it is the maximum achievable that we have been able to achieve together. As she knows, Mrs Van Veldhoven thinks that I am on the side of all the Groningen people who believe that less gas should be produced. But again, let's stick to the facts. That 54 billion cube we have seen in retrospective. We didn't know anything about that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u43	Keeping to the facts means that until 2007, the Queen's Commissioner, who was not elected, had a role in the gas building and that there is now no representative of the Groningers in the decision-making process on the gas building itself. Mr Vos, in the heart of decision-making and democracy, can really stand up for the Groningen people and give them that voice. I'm just asking him to consider it one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u44	The position of the Labour Party Group is that Groningers have an important voice in the gas building and here in The Hague. We will see how the gas building will eventually be designed, but I think that the focus of decision-making should be in The Hague, not in the gas building, in which commercial companies have an important voice. Extraction shall be determined here by means of a extraction decision and a extraction plan and not in that gas building.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u45	The PvdA indicates that in 2013 we had indeed no knowledge of this huge production in the Lower House. The minister knew that and he didn't act. How does the PvdA Group feel about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u46	I've reported that before. The Minister has made well informed decisions which he thought were appropriate. My group has had to say in retrospect that we would have liked to have seen that differently. At that time, however, we were faced with a failure, and I am pleased that we have reduced gas extraction from 42.5 billion via 39.4 billion to 33 billion on an annual basis. If you take the 54 billion we started with and then you come at 33 billion, then I notice that there have been very big steps taken with that reduction. I have said before that I think that this is a very good path that we have taken together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u47	I often notice that Mr Vos of the Labour Party is pretending that the 33 billion has already been officially established as the level of gas extraction. I note that there are still three figures above the market. Firstly, that is the 39.4 billion. In addition, the Minister has recently written a letter following the statement by the Council of State that it could reach a maximum of 36.4 billion, while the Minister mentioned the figure of 35 billion last week in the debate. But I never heard the minister say "33 billion." Where did Mr Vos hear the Minister say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u48	Until 1 July, the ceiling has been set at 16.5 billion and the Labour Party has said that it is unthinkable that it should go up afterwards. I am speaking on behalf of the Labour Party. And twice 16.5 is 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u49	The Christian Union finds it very disappointing for the people in Groningen that we are now waiting until 1 July for them to know about this year's production. I heard the Labour Party say that 33 billion is the maximum for her. Are we going to have a motion from the Labour Party in which that ruling is deposited: this year, 2015, the extraction will be no more than 33 billion cubic metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u50	This ritual, I would almost say, takes place in every gas debate. I think it is quite clear that the Labour Party has taken care to ensure that annual extraction is, at present, 33 billion. We do not intend to record this with motions in this Chamber for the period after 1 July, because we are discussing it around 1 July. Only then will we record this extraction further. I gave the reason I didn't. I can imagine that it will be even less than the 33 billion. That's exactly what we're investigating right now. I've explained that before. It seems to be extremely difficult to prevent us from having this ritual here every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u51	You'll only live in Groningen in a house that needs to be strutted and unsafe with the risk of an earthquake happening tomorrow or next week. Then what good is this story of the Labour Party: "We do not want to limit extraction to 33 billion now, because it may also be less"? Then let me think along with the Labour Party. Then submit a motion to Mr Vos stating that this year's extraction may be no more than 33 billion cubic metres. It can always be even less, but at least it can be up to 33 billion. Now people are confronted with 36.4 billion, last week or two weeks ago it was 39.4 billion. I keep hearing the Labour Party say: a maximum of 33 billion. Then there must also be action and I would like to see that motion later. If not, then this is very unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u52	Mrs. Dik-Faber, what you do causes fear among people in Groningen. You know, if you put a meter at those wells right now, that 16.5 billion will be taken out of those wells. So it's maxed out at 33 billion on an annual basis. I have said before that it is unthinkable that it should go up again. All the time but giving the impression that it is not at all certain and that we have not exactly agreed what is happening there and that people should therefore be afraid of a big blow, is a bit unfortunate. Gas extraction is currently at exactly the level we need for the minimum security of supply. The fact that I do not wish to record this in a motion, as you wish, is up to me. But the numbers are clear. Let us at least agree on this, because, once again, I do not think that the way it is put forward every time and the doubt that is being sown about the figures is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u53	We have had a frustrating time together, even here in the Chamber, the opposition on the one hand and the VVD and the Labour Party on the other. But in the last two weeks I have noted a pleasant cooperation with the Labour Party. I'm glad. It has also paid off today. As a SP, or as an opposition group, I can count on the Labour Party in the future, so that we can take greater steps, both in terms of the reduction in extraction and in terms of the rate of recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u54	Both of these matters are of paramount importance to us. We have chosen our own line, for two and a half years. I am very grateful for the way in which we have been able to work together. I certainly intend to continue this wherever possible, with the SP and with other groups: GroenLinks, but also D66 and CDA. Today, there was Parliamentary support for these amendments. So the answer is yes, you can find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u55	It remains a mystery to me why Mr Vos' eyes were only opened so late. It was an electoral massacre after the elections. I don't want to be triumphant, but it wouldn't have been necessary for the Labour Party to lose so many seats in Groningen. Why is there only now that change and is he only now thinking a little along with the opposition and the Groningers? If Mr Vos insists on what he has done over the past two weeks, then we can speed up much more. Why does he only do this now and not a few months ago, when it might have been even more depressing for the Groningen people than it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u56	Mr Smaling is doing a bit triumphant, but that is his right. In a democracy, power changes regularly; that is the beauty of democracy. I wish Mr Smaling good luck with the situation that has arisen in Groningen. I also wish his party a great deal of responsibility, because the SP delegates will now have to take the decisions that are important to the people of Groningen. I look forward to working with them. For two and a half years I have been sitting on Mr Smaling's side in the benches here for almost three years, just not all the way to the left of the Chamber, but one box more to the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u57	Mr Vos just said that the decision on the extraction of gas in Groningen is taking place in The Hague. I agree with him. Mr Vos also referred to colleagues from Groningen, who attend any gas debate here neatly in the benches. He also referred to Deputy Moorlag, who is also present here in the benches, and said that everyone is so involved. Deputy Moorlag recently made an extensive plea in a national newspaper for the establishment of a buy-out scheme for Groningers. Do I now find Mr Vos on my side if I again move for a buy-out arrangement for Groningers? Will Mr Vos now do what Mr Moorlag so passionately advocates? Is he going to support a buyout scheme for the Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u58	Already Groningen families are being bought out at the moment, unfortunately, because they can no longer live in their homes. That's state-of-the-art policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u59	There is a buying-out scheme for very, very, very poignant cases. Only a few cases are eligible for this. I have often argued in the Chamber that we should set up a wide-ranging buy-out scheme for those who want to leave. Fortunately, Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party has also advocated this. So I repeat my question to Mr Vos: is he prepared to support a buy-out scheme? I would also like to refer briefly to the report of the Research Council on Security, which states that citizens must be taken seriously and that there should be no political games with all kinds of vague phrases, as Mr Vos has just done. Can he now say quite clearly that his group supports a buy-out scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u60	Mr Moorlag is a member of the Labour Party. I haven't read anywhere that he supports the PVV's plan to empty out all of Groningen by buying people out. I don't think that's the right way either. We should not go down that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u61	Just a point of order: the PVV's plan is not to sweep all of Groningen but empty. Mr Vos knows that, too. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u62	That was not a point of order, but well, you have now corrected that for the Acts. I always like when names of other politicians are used in the debate, and that is sometimes justified, but we have to be careful that the debate is not about someone who is not taking part in this debate. That is my point of order. I give the floor to Mr Vos. He's got a few seconds to finish his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u63	I would like to thank you for the speaking time I have been given, but I shall conclude by saying this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u64	Mr. Chairman. Today, with the support of the Christian Union, important amendments have been adopted in the interest of the citizens of Groningen, such as the reverse burden of proof and the formal involvement of provinces, municipalities and water authorities. Those are really important wins. It is good that this has finally been clarified in the law. The Minister shall take over the recommendations of the Security Research Council. That is no surprise, of course, since a majority of the House called on the Minister to do so a few months ago. However, why is there still no clarity about the reduction in gas extraction? It is scandalous that, with the support of the coalition parties, the cabinet leaves Groningen in uncertainty for so long. I therefore raise the question as to who is going to continue to fear here today. Thanks to the Council of State, production at Loppersum is stopped. The ceiling of 36.4 billion cubic metres is therefore applicable for this year. We are heading in the right direction, but is this size as low and realistic as possible? Does the Minister really put security above revenue? The Christian Union calls on the government to work towards independence of natural gas and other fossil fuels. The same applies, of course, to the state budget. It is now two years since my motion for a resolution on the role of natural gas in the energy transition was adopted. To be honest, I haven't seen a serious answer to that. The real solutions are energy saving and renewable energy. Get a quick transition to clean energy. Make residential areas independent of gas. Make homes energy neutral and remove the connection obligation for gas, for example. The Research Council advises to strengthen the independence of State supervision of the Mines. The SodM is now under the authority of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. At the same time, the SodM controls the ministry. The Christian Union believes that it still wrings there. Why isn't the SodM an independent administrative body like the ACM? The Research Council has also advised to strengthen counterpower within its own cabinet. The Minister refers to the discussions within the Council of Ministers, but the Christian Union considers this to be absolutely too weak. The Christian Union wants formal involvement of other ministries such as I and M, BZK and Security and Justice. Why is the decision-making power on the extraction plan legally only with the Minister of EZ, while he himself is a shareholder? Why is the Minister of EZ responsible for strengthening houses and not the Minister for Housing and National Service? Another question from my group is: does the region play a prominent role in the reinforcement process and is it not overshadowed by the national coordinator? When can people live safe? If the houses are strengthened at the current pace, we are ready when no gas is extracted. That's all taking way too long. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the report is not only about Groningen, but also about shale gas extraction and gas extraction from small fields. Thanks to a motion, the licence applications at Terschelling are now suspended, but what about Woerden, Boxtel and Noordoostpolder? In these places, the same trap is stepped into. First, economic winability is assessed and only then will the environmental requirements be assessed. Where is the citizen in this process? How do we ensure a broad balance of interests in the early stages? In that context, I would also refer to the amendment that was adopted today. The Christian Union considers it very important that we do not create a waterbed effect together. We absolutely don't want that. Less extraction in Groningen does not, in our view, mean that there is more production elsewhere. We also want to hear this from the Secretary of State today. Last week I was in Woerden. There is a great deal of concern there, I can assure you. The room with worried residents was full to the edge. I can assure you that tapping a new oil and gas field under a residential area or in a vulnerable area is causing a great deal of unrest. So we really shouldn't do that anymore. The future is sustainably decentralised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u65	Mr. Chairman. It doesn't look good for the Groningen. The earthquakes will continue, even if gas extraction is reduced to zero. It's important that the residents realize that. Twisting the gas tap doesn't solve the problems. Political parties in favour of less gas extraction therefore do not solve the problems either. They only offer false safety and false solutions. If you cannot prevent the earthquakes, the logical question is: how do you fight the consequences? In our opinion, there is then a fundamental choice: either you are going to restore and strengthen the houses or you are offering people the opportunity to leave the risk area. We believe that the restoration and strengthening of homes is a hopeless path. The latest figures came from a survey of the province of Groningen this month. This shows that 152,000 homes need to be strengthened. That costs EUR 30 billion and you are working on it for a total of 27 years. We have a number of specific questions for the Minister. Who pays the 30 billion: the NAM or the Empire? Does the Minister really want these 152,000 houses to be stubbed? How long does the Minister think this is gonna take? How many of these houses have been dealt with by now? Are there concrete figures and plans for this? Does the Minister have a clear picture of what such an operation looks like? Does it actually cost 30 billion? According to the county's research, the average cost of strengthening a house is about two tonnes. That's higher than the average World War II value of those homes. After that two-tonne investment, the residents are still in a house that is suffering from tremors. That's absurd, isn't it? In theory, the residents will be safe, but they won't feel safe. What's our solution? We think that for those two tons you should build a whole new house in a safer area in Groningen, a house that is not damaged again and again in the event of earthquakes. Of course it hurts to leave the familiar environment. I understand that like no other. But we must dare to think differently. We need to be able to offer citizens choices in theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u66	Mr. Chairman. There are striking parallels between what happens to people living on the Groningen field and the history of asbestos in the Netherlands. You can recognize three phases in that. First, a phase in which the bubble or the application of asbestos is embraced and is seen as a solution to many problems. Then there's a phase where it starts to dawn that it's not all as rosy as it seems. Then there is a phase of insight, damage recovery and compensation. That is actually the case now, and I think we are about to enter the third stage. However, the question is whether we have left the second stage behind us. That is at the heart of the report of the Security Research Council and of the way in which both the Minister and NAM responded. That is my second point. The NAM and the Minister react completely differently to what the Research Council has come up with. The Minister is kind, but not very specific in a number of cases. However, the NAM denies the fact that safety is not being considered. It is literally stated in the letter: we do not share the main conclusion of the report that interested parties, including the NAM, have not handled the safety of the citizens of Groningen carefully. For example, until the earthquake at Huizinge, the best available scientific knowledge had no basis to see seismicity as a potential risk to safety. In graphs, the tremors increase in strength over the years. The one of 2003 was the most powerful ever since the beginning of the extraction, but 2006 went over it and 2011 went over it again. That was all before Huizinge. Then I think: you don't have to be a graduate statistician to see that there was something going on at that time. I do not understand the punitive denial of the NAM and I would like to ask the Minister how he sees this. Concepts such as security, risk and uncertainty are reflected in the Minister's response. Those words happen all the time. I think it is necessary for these to be defined very clearly and harshly. What we then do about gas extraction and damage recovery must be assessed against the definitions of acceptable uncertainty, acceptable risk and minimum safety. Otherwise, we will continue to use these concepts in a way where everyone has something else in mind. An opinion in the fine print of the report is about uncertainty. It is not intended that research should be used as an excuse not to take measures or postpone decisions. That is what we believe the Minister is doing. If you follow that advice, you will have to issue a mining decision for the second half of 2015 before 1 July. I therefore ask the Minister to do so. I would also like to ask him what he thinks of the extraction plan proposed by the new county administration. We think it's a good idea for local authorities to have advisory rights. Basically redesign the gas building: I would like to underline the word 'basic'. That's what it says in the report of the Research Council. I would like to hear from the Minister what "fundamental" is for him. Why do we have to wait for the 2015 Energy Report? What kind of extra wisdom does that get? I would like to say to him once again: think away now and then rebuild it. I've asked before, but it's still paying up. We have had a few months behind the back of a grumpy understanding, to put it mildly. I'm asking the Minister what he has in store to improve that. We have, of course, seen very bad elections for Provincial States for the two government parties. The Council of State has turned a blind eye to the Minister. The large flats in Groningen were not included in the inventory of weak buildings. We voted this afternoon on the Mining Act. Small fields, wind on land, shale gas; the Chamber doesn't seem to want it all, but that's because of the Minister. Finally, I would like to make one final point. Last week, the former director of State surveillance of the Mines told us that a high-ranking uncle had said to him, after Huizinge and after the advice of State surveillance of the Mines, where is your loyalty? That scared the hell out of me. Is the Minister, too, and is this not a reason for him to intervene heavily?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u67	The SP uses big words. I find it interesting to hear what the SP does want. They don't want nuclear power, they don't want shale gas, they want gas drilling, they want oil drilling. The other day we talked about windmills and then the SP was almost the first to say that they had to think about whether these windmills should be there. What energy supply does the SP have in mind in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u68	That's a long list. Fortunately, we have the energy agreement. Out there you can make it even wider, because the energy transition is needed. We need to get to zero-on-the-meter apartments fast. In any case, we need to put residential insulation at the heart of the matter. We voted in favour of Wind at Sea, and we will support it wholeheartedly. We are for processes that ensure further energy savings, sustainable generation and the recycling of energy use of the residual heat in the built environment or as production heat in the industry itself. We are also in favour of exciting companies to save faster. I would be in favour of mentioning those companies as well. The Minister doesn't want that, because then you get company confidential information. However, some companies are proud to save 2% a year. Tata Steel just sent an e-mail about that and there are more of them. Then you can speed up. Believe me, Mr Bosman, you can achieve what we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u69	That sounds pretty easy. "We've got to get people excited, we've got to get all these houses..." How many homes does the SP expect to have energy-neutral in the near future? What purpose is the SP and at what time? And what's that gonna cost? How does the SP see that? It's very easy and gratui... well, "free" to say "we don't want anything" and just call everyone to things. Of course, that's really crazy. Just pay attention to the number of houses in Groningen that need to be improved. The SP says that everything will have to be energy neutral. How many homes does the SP have and what costs are involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u70	That's a fair question. We will soon come up with a Sustainable Energy SP Agenda. In this we will show how much energy we consume here in the country. It would have preferred to be reduced, because savings targets are being achieved. It's just not with traditional fossil fuels anymore. Well, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u71	Mr. Chairman. The report of the Research Council for Security provides a destructive overview of the way in which the earthquakes in Groningen have been handled. In 1993 it was already demonstrated that the extraction of gas caused earthquakes, but at the same time it was concluded that this did not cause any concern. It was only after the earthquake in Huizinge that the image was adjusted and 40,000 damage cases have been reported, half of which have been dealt with. In the case of more complex damage, where more money is involved, the picture is clearly different. An example is the farm of the Munneke family in Krewerd. After the Huizinge earthquake they reported their first damage, but the damage treatment has now become a war of trenches for many years. The family no longer has a contact at the NAM and their counter-expert is kept out of the door. This kind of situation kills Groninger's trust in the government. How is the Minister going to solve this and why does a solution have to wait for years? The Minister has to move fast. He has promised to remedy all complex damage by the end of the year and research shows that 30,000, 90,000 or perhaps 152,000 homes need to be reinforced. Given the current rate of damage recovery, we wonder whether the Minister is still seriously underestimating the scale of the problems. "Don't push it forward, but tackle it" is the advice we would like to give the Minister. And tackling also means, as far as PVV is concerned, that the gas crane needs to be closed further. It is sad, and this minister is unworthy of him being tapped by the Council of State to continue to turn off the gas tap. The former chairman of the State Department of Mines Control was very clear about it at last week's hearing. He said, among other things, that 35 billion cube gas winning is only necessary in an extremely severe winter, as in 1963. Normally, a 21 billion cub extraction is enough. This minister invests tens of billions of euros in windmills to counter climate warming, but when it comes to gas extraction, he takes Siberian winters into account. This is not consistent and cannot therefore form a basis for policy. We would like to remind the Minister once again of the LNG import terminal in Rotterdam. This terminal isn't for nothing. This has been preceded by extensive research. As far as we are concerned, it is incomprehensible that the Minister needs until 1 January to examine whether, and if so how, he is going to use that LNG terminal. Take advantage of the possibilities that exist, so we ask the Minister, and do not postpone all decisions by asking endless inquiries. The third example of tackling rather than pushing forward is the way Groninger gets more participation. We would ask the Minister not only to look at administrative and democratic solutions, such as dialogue tables and state coordinators. We would like more emphasis on practical solutions and freedom of choice for the people in the area. For example, the strengthening of a house is very far-reaching. People have to leave their homes for months, and that causes a lot of uncertainty, stress and nuisance. Give people the choice between strengthening, buying out or doing nothing at all. Is the Minister prepared to do this? We also wonder what is the use of visual inspections of homes in the area. After visual inspections from the street 43 homes in Loppersum were initially considered safe, but at a second more thorough inspection at the request of the residents themselves, the houses were described as "ripe for demolition." Is this message correct and is it not wiser to make good use of this capacity and to carry out thorough inspections immediately? In conclusion, we can see that the report of the Research Council for Security mainly teaches us that we cannot blindly rely on the bodies that form part of the gas building. The Minister can no longer hide behind reports, risk analyses, investigations and follow-up investigations. It's time he put the safety of the Groningers first, screwed back gas extraction to the maximum and gave the Groningers maximum say in their own home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u72	Mr. Chairman. The Research Council for Security has drawn hard conclusions about the way in which gas extraction has been handled in the Netherlands. That has been mentioned before in this room. In the decision-making process, the importance of extraction was first and foremost and safety risks had no place in it. The maximum yield, optimal use of the Dutch mineral resources and security of gas supply were the main goals. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, the gas extraction company NAM and even the supervisor only paid attention to the gas yield. In doing so, they forgot their duty of care. The Minister regrets it, the NAM says sorry and both proceed to order of the day. The Minister says to implement all the recommendations, but we do not see much of them. Several spokesmen cited the independence of the SodM and said that it should be guaranteed. The Minister does say that he does, but it is not really about that. Then it is embarrassing to see that the judge has to be required to force the minister, to take the security risks seriously even now, even now, to close the gas tap at Loppersum a little further and that the Chamber should seize an accidental treatment of a modification of the Mining Act to settle a few things that should have been settled long ago. The question is, what exactly is the problem he is in? The PvdD is honest about this: it does not believe that the cabinet seriously believes that the security of the Groningers is paramount. I know this is a serious charge, but that's how we see it. The Minister has so far done nothing to prove the contrary. He could do this, for example, by developing scenarios from the security perspective on the consequences of reducing gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres. We all know that this would be the safest level at the moment. He can discuss these scenarios with the Chamber. We can also talk about the 21 billion cube, if you would also like security of supply. We can also talk about nothing at all, but let's start with the scenarios and see what we'll run into. Everyone, including a Groninger, understands that if you bring back gas extraction from one day to the next, people in nursing homes and people with small children at home will be in serious trouble, because they no longer have hot water. These are interests that we can look at side by side and weigh together here, but the Minister is not even prepared to look into these scenarios and explain them to us, so that we can see with ourselves what is responsible. I very much appreciate the report of the Research Council on Security, but the Animal Party also feels that this is the status quo and that we have gas extraction. One wonders what we could do to make things better, and I refer to the terms'strengthen the security perspective in decision-making'. This does not directly reflect: we are also prepared to look at it from the other side, from the precautionary principle, and to learn from it what lessons there are to draw. This report should have led everyone to the conclusion that we are not going to see it again, that we are not going to do it again, that we are wondering how we can have it come to this. Einstein said you can't solve problems by continuing to think from the situation and the reasonings that led to the problems. You learn a lot by starting on the other side. That means the precautionary principle. The recommendations are very worthwhile to take on board. We have a hard mind that the cabinet is doing this seriously, but we are following it with great interest. However, the Animal Party would also like to insist that the precautionary principle should also be used to reflect on what we are up against. Where have we, as a government, given the opportunity to intervene when the security of our citizens is really at stake? The Minister is now leaving with a reference to the legal position of the operators. If we do not put an end to this, we are standing here until the end of the day debating a security situation which continues to be at the expense of our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u73	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the gas building following the report of the Security Research Council. I think this is the third time we've talked about that report. It is an important research, especially for the residents of Groningen, but what matters is the execution. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. I therefore agree with what the Minister said in the cabinet response to the OVV report on Earthquake risks in Groningen. The Minister began his last paragraph with the words: "Now it is important to achieve tangible results for the inhabitants of Groningen. For this purpose, efficient and correct damage management, the strengthening of housing and the lifestyle approach are crucial." The VVD strongly agrees with that. The VVD also has its name under the motion that calls on the cabinet to adopt and address the recommendations of this report. Care and handling at the beginning of a damage must be properly arranged so that there is no longer any need for a possible course of justice. Steps have been taken. The Centre Secure Living, the NAM and the quartermaster for the National Coordinator Groningen are taking steps to improve the handling of damages. People should not have to learn with their worries, but be taken under the arm. The acquisition of a counter-expertise should be possible without any problems. People need to have a perspective on a solution and not on a procedure. Should it come to proceedings, the VVD has made itself hard for the protection of people with damage. The VVD has worked to ensure that a ruling by the Technical Committee on Soil Movement is a binding opinion. Binding to the NAM, but not to the person. If one does not agree with the opinion of that technical committee, the person with damage can also go to court. That option is also open. By arranging things well in front, I expect less problems and worry in the later course. The Minister has a clear commitment on the way forward. He wants to address the concerns and recommendations expressed in the OVV report. The VVD recognizes itself in that line and looks forward to the further elaboration of these recommendations, so that they can be translated into concrete actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u74	I would like to ask the VVD about what was exchanged with the Research Council during the round table. I asked if the OVV had driven from the precautionary principle. The answer was: no, we reason from the status quo. It's possible. But even inside, they have found situations where they literally said to us: the State, the government, has given up a lot of opportunities to intervene when faced with such situations, where the security of citizens is really at risk. Does the VVD spokesperson therefore consider that, in addition to the recommendations of the OVV report, the Minister really needs to work on how we deal with concessions? Surely it cannot be that we have given away rights to an operator in permits and concessions and that this makes it impossible for us to fulfil our constitutional obligations for the safety of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u75	I think we are now looking at how we are going to shape the whole decision-making process. I think the Minister is looking at how he is going to shape the gas building and what responsibilities he is investing. I personally think it is very important that we give the directors of Groningen and possibly other places a place to think and talk with in that decision-making. These are aspects that are now being taken into account and that are going on in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u76	That is all very well and must be done. But my fundamental point is as follows. Not only with the NAM but also with, for example, chemical companies that can pose a safety risk to their environment, we see that agreements have been made in the permit. However, if they do not comply, it is very difficult to intervene. This while the government has a duty to ensure that the safety of citizens is not unnecessarily compromised. That route is hardly being explored. Does the VVD also consider that the responsibility of the government to protect the safety of citizens is certainly above the legal status of operators? If there's a conflict there, shouldn't we say it's just entrepreneurial risk? If you want to do dangerous things, things go wrong, and we have to intervene, the risk is on you. However, I keep hearing the Minister say that it is a bit difficult to intervene, because the legal position of the NAM is strong because of that concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u77	When you make appointments, you make two-way arrangements. There's a responsibility in that and you have to take it. If you think in the course of time that you need to think seriously about those agreements, you can, but then you still have to deal with the basis on which you made the agreements. It's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u78	Mrs. Van Tongeren. Or would you like to go again, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u79	Yes, Mr President, I would like a second interruption, because I think it is important that the VVD also sends a signal to the Minister. The VVD today did not vote in favour of amendments, which were supported by a large majority of the Chamber, in order to improve the decision-making process. But this improvement is crucial. Of course you make arrangements with the operators. But we know that safety risks can occur in this type of activity. No one can deny that anymore. So where does the VVD weigh between, on the one hand, the legal status of the operator, the way in which we will deal with permits and concessions in the future, and, on the other hand, the space that we, as a government, keep ourselves in order to protect the security of citizens? Surely we cannot exchange citizens' safety against the operator's legal status? That is my question. What does the VVD choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u80	First of all, we did not vote in favour of these amendments, because we believe that they were a little premature and that we have not completely sorted out a number of things, which puts the House at risk of falling behind and taking steps to say afterwards that they could have been different and better, including for the future prospects of the Groningen people. I think I made a clear statement on this in the votes. Now let's be careful and not take these kinds of steps without all the care that there might be. Let's take a good look at it. Mrs Ouwehand also asked where you put the responsibilities. You have to take a serious look at that too. You have to be careful not to take very fast steps and say: I'll take care of that. As Mrs Ouwehand said, there are several options and options. The cabinet's looking into it. Perhaps she is not entirely satisfied with the results, but that does not mean that it does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u81	All right, let's finish. I understand from this that the VVD still needs to reflect on the relationship between the legal status of the operator and the space held by the Chamber in order to ensure the safety of citizens. Well, we'd like to get back to that. However, the spokesperson of the VVD also says he wants to be careful. Can he at least agree to the request of at least the Party for Animals not to grant any new permits or concessions as long as these processes are ongoing, because we simply do not know at the moment whether we are doing well enough? Can the VVD at least support this as a signal to the Minister: only now on the spot, because we have seen that there are a lot of lessons to learn. In the words of the VVD itself, we must carefully translate them into new policies and in the meantime we do nothing. Can I find the VVD at my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u82	No. The Minister has indicated that he is going to take all those things that have been laid down and weigh them in. Silence is also unwise. You have to look to the future. In doing so, you have to be careful and you have to make the considerations that we have discussed and which have also been laid down in various reports, but that does not mean that you have to stop immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u83	I heard Mr Bosman sighing in his contribution that we are talking about the OVV report for the third time, but I can see from his body language that he is very enthusiastic about speaking on this important subject also the third, fourth, fifth and sixth time if necessary. My question concerns the advice of the SodM to fully integrate the clusters at Loppersum. The Minister has decided not to do so and to reduce the extraction by only 80%. After that, the Council of State recommended the same thing: close those clusters with Loppersum. Now I know the VVD as a state party. Does the VVD not think that the statements of the Council of State should simply be followed and that the clusters at Loppersum should be completely enclosed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u84	I am careful because I wonder what Mrs Van Tongeren means by 'closed', but I think the Minister said immediately that he would follow that decision. That is perfectly clear, and it is also in line with what the Council of State is saying about a possible alert flame status and even possible delivery in the future for security of supply. I think the Minister picked that up right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u85	It is remarkable that the position of the Minister is again explained when I ask about the position of the VVD. What technical evidence that the clusters cannot be fully closed does the VVD have? The Council of State has indeed said that such a cluster can be reopened if there is an incredibly severe, cold winter coming, but Jan de Jong said after the hearing that it would take one or two weeks to do so. If anyone knows that, it'll be Jan de Jong. Does the VVD see that differently? Then I'd like to get technical information from her why such a cluster can't be completely closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u86	Mrs Van Tongeren now anticipates a number of things, as we often do in this Chamber. The gas decision will take place on 1 July. I think that this should be a serious story, where we weigh everything and look at the possibilities and options. There are a number of investigations that are all coming together. We can say that things have to be different now...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u87	That's what the judge says!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u88	No. I think that the care we are taking now and the line we are following now are very good. It is quite clear that a number of steps are being taken, whether it is the gas decision for the summer or the fact that we are going to talk about the Mining Act in the autumn. Those steps are clear. Nothing gets pushed away or thrown away. The steps are clear and taken with care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u89	The Minister needs a short suspension to prepare his answers. Besides, there are people who haven't had dinner yet. We're gonna suspend for 20 minutes and start right after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u90	Madam President. I have already indicated a few times, both to the Chamber and to the people in Groningen, that I realize that the confidence of the inhabitants of Groningen must be earned once again by........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You can regain confidence by taking effective measures, measures that help people, but also by realizing how things have gone in the past and being willing to learn the necessary lessons from them. In the context of the latter, which I consider as important as taking effective measures, I asked the Research Council for Security to look at the processes and decision-making regarding gas extraction in Groningen in the past. It was a broad research assignment. The Research Council was able to get away with it and has initiated the requested investigation. I have a great deal of appreciation for the report that has been produced, as have the spokesmen who have expressed their appreciation for it. It is of course quite nice if you can do something with such an analysis. The Research Council has turned it into a number of recommendations. The Court has indicated very quickly that it believes that all these recommendations should be followed. I agree that these recommendations should be followed, and that is why I have been working on this. I dealt with this in the cabinet response to the report of the Research Council for Security, but then we have to translate it all into policy adjustments and, more specifically, into legislative changes. We're working hard on that right now. The Chamber knows that I am planning to come to the Chamber in October with a bill for a coherent amendment to the Mining Act. The report of the Research Council for Security outlines the following picture. After the discovery of the natural gas field in Groningen at the farmer in Slochteren, we all remember the pictures of it.The reaction was only: hey, we have gas, what can we do with it? After that, we're gonna win that gas. Earthquakes haven't been in the picture at all in the first decades. It was shown that there would be some inkling, or bottom descent, but it remained with that observation. Then there were the first earthquakes. The first was in Drenthe in 1986. The first in the area of the Groningenveld was in 1991. In 1993, the Research Council also outlined, there was a report from the Guidance Committee on Earthquakes (BOA) in which it was established that under certain circumstances there could be a connection between earthquakes and gas extraction. Then it was said: the maximum heaviness you have to think of is 3.3 on the Richter scale. Over time, this has been further developed and several studies have been carried out. The principles remained the same: earthquakes are imaginable, with a maximum force of 3.9 on the Richter scale. Everyone assumed that it was material damage and that it would remain so. Then we got that quake in Huizinge, with a power of 3.6 on the Richter scale. Then, to begin with, SodM said that we think that the 3.9 ceiling that we are considering cannot be maintained, so we need to start again and, pending that, we need to reduce the extraction of natural gas as quickly and as much as possible and look at what we now have to take into account. There was a lot of follow-up at the time, including all the studies I had done in 2013. In retrospect, also in the light of the opinion of the Security Research Council, we can see that there has been underestimation when it was thought at the beginning: ah, 3.3 and a maximum of 3.9, with only damage. Because if you have damage, there could be human damage. Accidents can happen to people, too. Houses may be constantly damaged and therefore the housing market is affected. People are insecure in their own homes and, quite rightly, take into account their personal safety due to the accidents that may occur. This has effects on the Groningen community as a whole. It affects children. It also affects people who are in difficulties due to all kinds of circumstances that can happen to everyone and then experience the pressure of the earthquakes. The impact of all this on the Groningen and Groningen societies has been underestimated. That is what the Security Research Council has made statements about, which I think are quite right. It is not the case that there has been no attention at all to the risks arising from gas extraction. There have been investigations. The OVV has provided a good overview of all investigations over time. The point is that these investigations had to do with what was technically going on. The uncertainties arising from the earthquakes, their impact and, indeed, their communication have received absolutely too little attention. It is interesting to discuss with experts what is happening and what effects there could be, but you are talking about citizens living in an area. It's their territory. It's about their safety. It's their homes, churches and surroundings. You have to be aware that this is what this is about and look at the problem on the basis of it, and that has not happened. The Research Council therefore concluded that the interested parties did not take the uncertainties in the risk assessments and the reduction of those uncertainties as their starting point. They also had a technocratic attitude and too little regard for the associated communication and accountability to the residents in Groningen. When I talk about the parties involved, I look first and foremost at the government and, more particularly, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs with whom the primary responsibility lies. The OVV then made a number of recommendations. They can be distinguished in two. There are recommendations relating to strengthening the security importance in decision-making. There are also recommendations on communication with citizens about the complex and uncertain risks. The Chamber has spoken about this a number of times. I wonder if I will go through all these recommendations separately. I think it would be better to deal directly with the points raised by the spokesmen, because that would keep me as close as possible to the contributions of the spokesmen. It is clear that all the recommendations are valuable. As far as I am concerned, it is about the precise implementation of this. I am fully prepared to comply with the recommendations and to complete them. There are different thoughts about how that should be done. That was also apparent today in the vote on a number of amendments. The Chamber asked me how I deal with the amendments. The process is clear as far as I am concerned. The cabinet's coming up with a bill. The Members of Parliament then put forward amendments, in this case 13. By the way, none of these amendments dealt with this bill, but well, the Chamber came up with it anyway. The Chamber has decided to adopt three amendments plus a sub-amendment. This means that these amendments are now part of the bill that will be sent by the Lower House to the Upper House. That bill will be dealt with there and I will act on behalf of the cabinet in that consideration. How this is going to work out, I don't know. There can be different paths with different variants. Today was the vote. I would now like to take note of the outcome of that vote in the House of Representatives. I would then like to discuss this as soon as possible in the Council of Ministers. I'll try to do that Friday. Once I have done so, I will express the view of the Council of Ministers on the further process. I just outlined the trial. There are a number of variants. They will be discussed in the Council of Ministers. That will then be the line of the cabinet. I intend to deal with that in this way. In doing so, I also respond to the questions raised by the spokesmen. Mr Vos and Mrs Van Veldhoven have asked why standards have not yet been developed for buildings other than residential houses. There were no standards for earthquakes in the Netherlands and you don't just shake them up. If you want it, it'll take a few years. We incorporate the experiences of governments dealing with earthquakes and then look at the nature of the earthquakes in the Netherlands. What is the state of the houses in the affected area in the Netherlands? How are you supposed to translate the risk of those earthquakes into houses and other buildings? What standards should you use when strengthening or rebuilding houses and other buildings? That's a longer procedure, as we all know. In this procedure we have taken a few intermediate steps, namely the development of a National Practice Directive for homes and buildings up to three floors. It is then applied in advance in the way I have exchanged with the Chamber, on the advice of a steering committee set up for this purpose. So we are in the process of achieving standards, but we will have to develop them ourselves. We use all the expertise available to do so. These standards cover buildings up to three floors. That includes schools and nursing homes in the core area, but we need more. I also need standards for industrial installations and for high-rise construction. In the follow-up work that's going to be done, this high-rise building comes into view. We've been talking to the Chamber about this recently. We have also done all the preparatory work on industrial installations. We've made a hand-out and we've offered it to companies. Companies have been working on that. They're giving feedback to us. We have changed our approach a number of times. We now have the fourth version of this hand-out. Every company will have to look at what needs to be done based on the knowledge and the science that we have at the moment. We will further develop and share that knowledge and science with those companies in order to move forward with those companies as quickly as possible. As has already been said, it is also my interest to come up with the necessary standards as quickly as possible in the case of high-rise buildings. We need everything: for the industrial installations, for the high buildings and for the other buildings, including the houses, but we have given priority to the homes and the buildings up to three floors in the core area. We are now working as quickly as possible to have the standards we need at our disposal. The whole process involves: the KNMI, Deltares, TNO and the NAM. Representatives of the municipalities involved, in particular industrial plants, have also been invited. That way, we'll try to get through that as soon as possible. Of course, we are not going to wait until all this is available, for example in the case of schools or nursing homes that are higher than those three floors. We've already been through the schools. All schools in the core area have been inspected. No acute unsafe situations were found. We already have inspection reports available for six schools to deal with the structural situation this year. Two schools in Loppersum themselves are the most advanced. There is no acute threat, but weak elements have been identified. That is why we are dealing with it as a matter of priority: first the two, then the six and then the seventeen. In the same way, we take care institutions. All health care institutions will be inspected this year. We will look in particular at health care institutions in the development of standards. As the spokesmen said in this case, Mr Vos in particular, it is necessary to pay extra attention to where many people meet. Mr Vos also spoke about the need to place the SodM at a distance. He announced a motion on that. We'll see what that motion looks like. My approach is to ensure, as a first step, that the independence of the SodM is not affected in practice. This did not happen from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and not from me personally, and it will not happen in the future. In practice, therefore, we will respect the independence of the SodM. That also makes sense, because the importance of the SodM is precisely that it is an independent supervisor. This role can only be fulfilled properly if it is respected by the most concerned, in this case the minister responsible. That's what's gonna happen. The fact that the SodM exists must be in the law. I think it would be useful to include in the law that the SodM can come to conclusions entirely in freedom, without indications. The fact that the SodM can record them in reports without intervention being able to change them is also something that I think can be properly laid down in the law. I'm working on that. Furthermore, the cabinet is working to carry on the supervision again. That applies to a lot of supervisors in all ministries. As a result of the SodM discussion, we moved that forward. In response to the conclusions we draw from this, we will consider the form in which you can best pour such a supervisor. Where do you put a supervisor? And does it have added value to pour it into the form of an independent administrative body? We will identify these options and involve them in the final decision-making process on this issue. I have said the foregoing to Mr Vos, but it was also addressed to Mrs Van Tongeren, who also contributed to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u91	I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren. For me, she had already informed the Members of Parliament that we are doing three interruptions in two during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u92	I would like to comment on a point the Minister mentioned earlier. I had to let that work on me. Does the Minister intend to withdraw the amendment to the Mining Act submitted to the Chamber because there are amendments in it which may not be acceptable to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u93	I understand that Mrs Van Tongeren is now returning to a subject that I discussed two points ago. I'd like to respond to that. I am confronted today with the decision-making process by the Chamber. The Chamber has dealt with the law in full with me, tabled amendments and voted on it. That fact is now there. I think it would be very good for me to discuss one of these points, which we have had a great deal of discussion about, first in the Council of Ministers. In the Council of Ministers, we will look at the issues that are important in this connection and have a view on them. Then I'll come out with that. The Chamber decided today and the Council of Ministers may be able to discuss it on Friday. I do not think it would make any sense to anticipate that at this stage. This does not do justice to the responsibility that my colleagues in the cabinet feel for this issue. I would like to give them a chance to do so on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u94	The minister said there are three scenarios. I therefore assume that the answer to the question of whether one of these scenarios is the repeal of this law is yes. I would also like to know from the Minister whether he has already consulted or whether he is going to do so with Shell and Exxon, either directly or in their cooperation with NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u95	I didn't say there were three scenarios. I can think of four or five. I said there were multiple scenarios. I intend to consult with the Council of Ministers on Friday and I have no intention of consulting with NAM, Shell or ExxonMobil by Friday. Mr Vos suggested that the ADC test be included in the decision-making process. Today, an amendment has been adopted by the Court to include the issue of safety in a broad sense in the decisions to be taken on the Mining Act. Public health has also been mentioned. I understand from Mr Vos' contribution that he now wants to involve nature and social support. I think we should realise that before there is a final decision, different types of permits are needed. You need an environmental permit, as well as a permit under the Nature Protection Act and a permit under the Mining Act. Each licence shall be subject to the weighting of certain interests. For example, when it comes to nature, this will take place within the framework of the permits under the Nature Protection Act. When it comes to matters relating to spatial planning and everything related to it, the Environment Act is at issue. Under the Mining Act, you test the matters directly related to mining activities. That's how we split it up. If you allow all this to be done in accordance with the proper legal procedures, while also offering opportunities for consultation and participation at different times, such as presenting views, and you go through them in the right way in their cohesion, all of them, then you have also done what is necessary to gain social support. That is not linked separately to any of those permits, but must be the result of working with all those permits. How exactly will this division work? What interests do you relate to the Nature Protection Act, which is involved in the environmental permit and which is involved in the Mining Act? We had something in the Mining Act. Now there is an amendment from the Chamber. We would like to look at this in the legislative proposal for the Mining Act which I intend to submit in October. That is where we will indicate what, according to the cabinet, should be covered in that permit for the Mining Act and what interests, in so far as they are not involved, can be properly protected in any other way. Then it will also be possible to see whether this whole of all considerations, the moments of participation and the moments of advice are sufficient to gain the important social support and to do justice to the interests involved. Mr Vos felt that the study of the KNMI was not transparent. He believes that the available data should be shared more widely. The KNMI does not carry out that investigation, unlike Mr Vos seemed to think, on behalf of the NAM. The KNMI is conducting that investigation on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in my order. The SodM is steering that investigation. That's where the expertise is. The KNMI works together with the SodM in terms of steering. In addition, it works together with TNO in the implementation. There is regular consultation in technical working groups including foreign experts and national experts from universities. That research takes place at a high scientific level. The results of these studies will have to be implemented in a manageable form for drivers. This will have to be shared with all concerned. The municipalities and the province of Groningen should also be able to take note of this. They should also be able to benefit from this. If these municipalities and the province are involved in the decision-making process, they can also rely on the research that has been done. To include municipalities and provinces in this scientific research now, I do not think there is any added value. Those scientists, led by SodM, must do their job. They should then make this easily accessible and allow drivers at different levels to do their work on this basis. In the end, these investigations must be public, so that everything that has been researched is accessible to anyone who wants to look into the details. Moreover, I also think it is important to submit these investigations, once they are in place, for verification to independent national and foreign experts. If they wish, they can, again in public, give their opinion to the municipalities and the province, possibly other, on what has been done. Especially when they do so in public, we organise maximum transparency in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u96	I thank the Minister for his enlightening explanation. I thought the NAM did research on buildings in Groningen, not only housing, but also schools and hospitals. Local authorities have approached me with the request to access those data. That is in line with the KNMI study, but that was my specific question. Perhaps I have not made that clear enough in my speech, but I am doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u97	The point made by Mr Vos was clear to me, I think. I don't have the last answer to that yet. I am inclined to agree with Mr Vos. If the municipalities and the province, in order to fulfil their task properly, need relevant data, which can contribute to the quality of their decision-making, balancing and monitoring, we need to ensure that that data is available to them. In any case, I believe that all this information should be public, but that is particularly true for municipalities and provinces. I would like to focus on the point made by Mr Vos. I will do so quickly and let the Chamber know what we can do. I share Mr Vos's point of view. Mrs Van Tongeren and others have spoken about the extent of gas extraction. In 2012, 47.8 billion m of natural gas was extracted. In 2013, when I had all these investigations carried out, this was due to a cold winter and the replenishment of the reserve stock at Norg, rising from 47.8 to 53.9 billion m. When those research findings were available, it was decided to go back to 42.5 billion m. Later it was decided to go back to 39.4 billion m. At the moment, there are different quantities at stake. The cabinet decided, also on the basis of advice from the State surveillance of the Mines, to consider on 1 July whether 33 + 2 billion m should be won for this year, or 39.4 billion m, as we had previously decided. We're getting ahead of ourselves. For the first six months we have set 16.5 billion m as a limit. Following the ruling of the Council of State, I said that in the three clusters other than Loppersum, those are the Southwest cluster, the East cluster and the Eemskanal cluster, no more will be won than what was originally set as the limit for those three clusters. The total of those three clusters is 36.4 billion m. Then nothing is arranged for Loppersum. In addition, 1 billion m, which was won between 1 January and the moment of the judgment in the provisional application of the Council of State. During that period, Loppersum had already won 1 billion m and that comes with it. What's also added is what's technically needed to be able to deploy those clusters if it's really necessary: if it's very cold and you really need it to keep people warm at home, more can be won. To make that technically possible, something can still be won. Well, that's all there is to it. I don't think it's very relevant to go through all this in detail right now. I realize that, of course, the Chamber itself matters, but I find it less relevant. The decision-making process as of 1 July is no longer 36.4 billion m or 36.4 + 1 billion m or 36.4 + 1 billion m and a little more. No, that decision is about 39.4 billion m or 33 + 2 billion m. So you're talking about a starting point of less than that 36.4 billion I just talked about. Moreover, I think it is a good thing that everyone realizes that on 1 January 2016 we will see if we can approach it in a different way. We are thinking of imported gas as a starting point, a maximum conversion to the quality of the Groningen gas through the activation of the nitrogen production capacity we already have, and the upgrading of new nitrogen production capacity. This may result in us deciding, partly on the basis of safety analyses that the SodM will carry out on this subject, on a lower overall basis. The far-reaching decision-making process will take place on 1 July 2015 and 1 January 2016 in a timely and well-prepared manner. On that timely decision-making, on 1 July, I will come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u98	The Minister said earlier that he decided in January whether to use the LNG terminal (liquid natural gas terminal) and import gas. Because he still has to investigate if it's all possible. We would like him to start using the LNG terminal on 1 July. The LNG terminal was partly built by the NAM and cost EUR 1 billion. I would like to know from the Minister what he is going to investigate what the NAM has not yet investigated before spending EUR 1 billion on that LNG terminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u99	There's no reason not to use that LNG terminal. That thing can be filled up and then that LNG can be spread all over the Netherlands. There's nothing in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u100	So I understand from the Minister that there should be no investigation, but that the LNG terminal can be used immediately. So what is against using the LNG terminal as of 1 July so that gas extraction can actually go down significantly this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u101	The LNG terminal is already in use. That thing isn't out there unused. The terminal is used at low capacity. Parties put him there because they saw a place for that in the market. He's working, too. In any case, if it does not function physically at 100%, it will already work in trade. The existence of the LNG terminal itself already has an impact on the market. What's that gonna look like in the future if we're gonna get less gas in Groningen? We're going to use more heat in the longer term. We may also use import gases. That could be gas that was first extracted, liquefied, transported, then made gaseous again and brought into our existing pipe system. It may also be that we bring gas coming from another country directly into our pipe system. Those possibilities are on the table. We will discuss it when we decide on the next year on 1 January. We are already in the year 2015. We have made a decision in 2015. On July 1st we're going to take that again. There will be a choice. It's about the year 2015. Meanwhile, we are doing the necessary research to see if we can move to another system. That's very far-reaching. There's still a lot to be done for that. I am going to do my best to be able to make that decision by 1 January at the latest, because it will already work for 2016. So we are really doing the best we can to make the necessary important decisions as soon as possible and to get them straight into action. One proof of this is that the cabinet has already made an advance on the decision that we are going to take on 1 July by enabling the implementation of the decision in both variants by setting the ceiling of 16.5 billion for the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u102	Although this debate is not about the amount of gas, what the Minister says gives rise to one or two questions. From the Minister's text and the explanatory statement he has given here, I would say that he cannot rule out the possibility that it could also come with these additions to 39.4 billion cubic metres. Is that right? It is never more than 36.4 billion cub plus a number of other things that can make it more. Can he rule out that it could still go up to 39.4 billion cube or not? My second question is even more important. The Minister says that the decision-making in July is about 39.4 or 33.2 billion. I find that surprising, because we still get the reports from the NAM. As we understand it, the Minister would not receive it until 1 May. How can he know that it is about 39.4 billion cuub, what is now his ceiling, or 33.2 billion cuub? It could be something else, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u103	I didn't talk about 33.2 billion cube, but 33 billion cube plus 2 billion. That is the alternative that is being discussed for this year. I believe that Mrs Van Veldhoven is right to clarify this 39.4 billion cub. We have a provisional provision from the Council of State. There is still a final verdict to be made on this. That ruling comes at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, but I assume that it is in accordance with the provisional application. I ordered immediately to comply with the provisional application. I can't reverse that one billion cub won in Loppersum until then. That's a fact. For the rest of this year, however, it should only be what is technically necessary to keep things going. The alternative 39.4 billion cuub dealt with this year's decision until the Court of Justice gave a ruling on this matter. So now the alternatives are 33 billion cuub plus 2 billion and 36.4 billion cuub plus 1 billion plus x, where x is as large as technically needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u104	So at the point of "never more than 36.4 billion cub," it turns out it's "never" not that hard. That is also stated in the letter, but it is good to have clarified it in this way. Yet the Minister just said that the decision-making in July is about 39.4 billion cubic metres or 33 billion plus 2 billion cubic metres. But the Minister cannot rule out the fact that, on the basis of the reports and the figures that the NAM is not going to give him until 1 May, there are very different options on the table? How can the Minister know that there are only two options in July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u105	That is the decision taken by the cabinet. The Chamber has received information about this. This has been the subject of a debate here. There's been a lot of statements about it. All kinds of views have been expressed. There have also been motions on it. In the end, the conclusion is that we are doing two things this year. Firstly, we are now doing the preliminary work to ensure that on 1 July, on the basis of the SodM's opinion, a choice can be made between 39.4 billion cube and 33 billion plus 2 billion cube. Secondly, we have said that we are going to anticipate this by the 16.5 billion cube limit for the first six months. That limit is therefore to be discussed until 1 July. This is the outcome of the previous decision-making and discussion in the Chamber. I can't change that outcome anymore. I am now in the process of making a decision. In the meantime, I am busy making sure that the next decision can also be taken on 1 January. But I can't keep having discussions that have already been held again and again. I'm not getting anywhere with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u106	Suppose the minister gets those risk analyses and that they show the same thing as the Loppersum cluster did at the time. As a result, the Minister decided at the time to reduce the extraction of gas by 80%. Is it conceivable that such scenarios could also apply to other parts of the area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u107	I don't want to speculate on possible other scenarios. I have already said that in the past, for a period of ten years, we indicated what would be won. Now we do that for periods of two years. I'm already doing that every six months. I made a decision in January. A decision will be taken in July and a decision will be taken in January. In my view, it would not contribute to careful decision-making if we were to discuss variants of this with each other. I think we should do as we have agreed, at least as the cabinet decided and previously exchanged with the Chamber. I think that we are very ambitious to bring all these major changes that are at issue to decision-making in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u108	The CDA would also like to see an orderly decision taken. However, we can imagine that in the risk analyses that are still at the NAM, 1 May, they may still have further reductions to the Minister. We would be sorry if the Minister were to rule out a reduction on the basis of what he said earlier in the Chamber. What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u109	The way I see it is that we have appointed the two options on 1 July. In anticipation, we have set the total for the first half of the year at 16.5 billion m. That is the outcome of the previous decision-making process. I am now in the process of concluding it to a decision on or around 1 July. I'll go in later at that time. A further, even more far-reaching decision will require in-depth preparation. That's what we're doing. I am committed to ensuring that we can take that decision by 1 January. Apart from those two moments, I do not want to bring any other variants into the discussion at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u110	We talk a lot about those numbers, that's right. Yet the new provincial government, with five coalition parties, comes up with a maximum for this year of 27 billion cubic metres. That's a well-founded number. How does the Minister reconcile this with his intention to give more advisory rights to local authorities and to provide input when it comes to such choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u111	I will go into the role of the province of Groningen in a moment. Perhaps, with Mr Smaling's permission, I may first give a brief answer to the question about 1 July and what could or could not be done sooner. I shall then go straight to the point that has now been raised by Mr Smaling. Mrs Mulder, as well as Mrs Van Veldhoven, has said: we want to be able to speak properly in the Chamber about the decision you are taking on 1 July. I said I could imagine that. That date of July 1st is very tight, but of course I understand what the Chamber wants. I'm gonna see how I can do justice to that. How to put that exactly in time, I don't know yet. But we will discuss with the Chamber in advance, in a procedural sense, what I can do, what is possible and whether it can be reconciled with the ambitions of the Chamber and with the agenda of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u112	I appreciate the Minister's going to try that. Can he tell us when he can inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u113	I need to get the first data before May 1st. They then go to SodM, so that SodM can formulate an opinion on this, which I want to have on 1 June. I'll see what form the data that goes to SodM have been poured into. I will first orient myself and discuss with SodM what SodM should do and what time it takes. In the third week of May, I am going to try to give the Chamber an insight into how this can be completed in terms of time before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u114	Thank you for the Minister's willingness to do so. I would like to give the following to Minister Kamp. Suppose the risk analyses show that it is wise to maintain a lower gas extraction, lower than the 33+2 indicated by the Minister. Then I hope the Minister will allow himself that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u115	I do not want to say anything about this now other than what I have just said and which I have said on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u116	I have a reaction to this. Thank you to the Minister for his careful handling of this dossier. It is not always easy to monitor the process, with all the political pressure and the seriousness of the situation in Groningen. We'll just have to say that once. I see that the Minister is trying to do this very carefully. However, I am now comparing the position adopted today with the position taken by the Minister in the debate before the spring recess. If I understood him correctly, it seems that we are going a little more towards the 33+2 than towards the 39.4. Or am I wrong about that and the Minister says: no, I'm keeping both of them open? Then the Minister said: I want to keep the 39.4 as an escape. In my own words, paraphrasingly, the Minister now seems to be moving in the direction of the Chamber's wish, as it was very widely ventilated during that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u117	The 39.4 billion cubic metres is the decision taken by the cabinet for this year. There was an extensive exchange of views with the Chamber. This has led to a choice that needs to be made and made possible by anticipating it before the first half of the year. That is a fact that I have, of course, to agree to. It is the outcome of the consultations that have taken place and therefore, for me, a new one, as well as the ruling of the Supreme Court, in this case the Council of State, is also a fact for me. On the basis of these data, I try to lead it to careful decision-making. I do not think it is appropriate for me to anticipate the decision we have to take on 1 June by saying that one is more likely than the other. Mr Vos, and the Group of the Party of Labour, has done so. That is the right of Mr Vos and the Group of the Party of Labour. Several groups have spoken about this. One is acceptable to them, the other is unacceptable to them. However, I will make my decision as soon as I have indicated. First the NAM data, then the advice of SodM, then the discussion in the Council of Ministers and then I come forward with it. I do not think I have the position to come up with my preference or my final conclusion for the time chosen by the Chamber, even by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u118	That's clear. But since then, the report of the OVV has been published. The Council of State's argument is that security of supply and security play a decisive role. Have I understood the Minister correctly when I conclude that he is taking these two matters with him in the preparation of his decision, as will be communicated to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u119	Yes. Then I come to the role of Groningen. Perhaps we could go a little bit further in the wake of Mr Smaling's interruption. It has been said that the decision on the extraction of gas should actually be a decision that could also be defended from week to week by the responsible representative of the province of Groningen. I disagree. I think it's bad to have a diffuse responsibility. The responsibility lies with a provincial director or the responsibility lies with a national director. The whole of the legislation is designed to ensure that this type of activity is decided and accountable by the Minister for Economic Affairs, in line with the view of the Council of Ministers. That's where the responsibility lies. There can be no misunderstanding. I do not think it is right that we should now spread it across the different levels of government and the different officials. It is something else that those other authorities in the area.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is, of course, already happening in substance. This is already apparent from the two administrative agreements we have concluded. It is also evident from what is going on with regard to the National Coordinator Groningen and the one intergovernmental government agency that we are setting up in Groningen and the interdepartmental branch that is coming here in The Hague. There is a lot going on at that point. On the issue of advice, I have already said what is necessary in the light of the report of the Research Council for Security. The Chamber has already laid down something about it in an amendment. As far as I am concerned, this is all on the agenda. However, sharing responsibility between different levels of government and different officials, such as a deputy and a minister, does not contribute to a good process. That is why I am not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u120	Now I wonder what the province's right of advice is if this is not an option. This means that the province can get back to court very quickly if there is a difference of opinion on the amount of gas to be extracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u121	An advisory right is, of course, something other than the duty or right to make a decision. If a decision is to be taken, it must be clear who is to take that decision and how that decision is to be taken. You also have to answer for what you have done and everything related to it. That has to be clear. Apart from that, you should be advised to make a good decision. You have advice from the SodM and all kinds of other agencies. Now, however, a separate, stronger advisory position of the province and of the municipalities is being proposed through the amendment voted on today. I said that I am implementing the recommendations on this issue of the Security Research Council and that I will process them in a legislative proposal that I will submit in October. It is very useful, however, to distinguish between advice that is of course listened to well, because we do not allow ourselves to be advised for nothing and decision-making and responsibility. I like to keep these two things apart. I am very open to broad advice, but I would like to keep my own responsibility. This is not so much because of personal ambition, but because of the ambition to ensure that decision-making and responsibility are also clear, that the Chamber can address one person to that responsibility and that that person should be accountable to the Chamber. If you spread that across multiple governments, it becomes diffuse and less workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u122	Well, then I'm afraid the advice will be a dead end. The province is now talking about 27 billion cubic metres, because a report by the Gasunie shows that this is enough for an average year and that the external obligations can be met. It can now be said that in a very cold year it must be 27 kuub plus something, but the Minister can overrule that decision on the basis of the Gas Act. However, the intention of the recommendations of the report of the Research Council for Security is that you come to such a decision together. If that is not the case, I wonder if that right of advice is worth something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u123	We need opinions from different sides. I called it SodM, which gives me advice and I mentioned the province and the municipalities that can advise. But these are opinions and they are not necessarily similar either. In the end, a decision must be made. Moreover, in addition to this advice and what one takes into account from his own background in order to obtain such advice, there are other aspects. I also have responsibility for the security of supply and for the legal commitments we have entered into. On the basis of my own responsibilities and insights, there is advice from different sides and on the basis of that I try to reach a good decision. Each of these advices is, of course, valuable without the fact that advice would only be valuable if it were followed precisely. You may have issued a very valuable opinion that is not entirely followed, because there are other opinions and considerations. That is the complex for which I am ultimately responsible and which I am accountable for in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u124	Last week I was in Woerden at a residents' evening because of the gas and oil extraction that may take place there. There was a lot of concern in the room. Representatives of the municipality of Woerden always referred to the government because the decisions would take place there. There was a great deal of incomprehension among the residents, because it concerns their municipality and their environment. I understand very well the Minister that a decision must be taken in one place, but at the same time he says that municipalities are given an advisory right. That was the subject of last week's debate and they thought it was a bit thin. The Minister in The Hague is going to make a decision. Can the Minister imagine that there is something between an opinion and decision-making, which gives a municipality more say than just the opportunity to give advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u125	I can very well imagine what that is like in a municipality, if only because I have been a member of a municipal council for 16 years. I can also imagine what is going on in the province, because I have been a part of it for eight years. I also realize something else very well. The Empire has nothing to do with what is decided about a social and cultural center in a municipality. Nor has the Empire to interfere with where a municipality wants to build sports fields. However, the Empire has a responsibility to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands has electricity and that the power lines are in order. The Empire also has a responsibility to ensure that the highways are in order and that they are expanded when necessary. The same applies to industrial areas. We all want a job. If there is to be a major intensification of industry at national level, for example in Rotterdam or linked to Schiphol, then that is also a national responsibility. So you can very well respect a municipality and its inhabitants in the decision-making that must take place according to the nature of the subject, but they must also accept that there are also decisions that must be taken at the level of government. One of the decisions to be taken at the level of government is the decision on electricity production and on how much capacity to have and how to transport the electricity. This also applies to questions about the heat supply. Do you do this in the form of heat or in the form of gas used to generate heat? If you do it in the form of gas, how do you do it? What do you need for that? Are you gonna win that gas or are you gonna import that gas? How are these pipes supposed to run? Those are real decisions that need to be made nationally. With all due respect for municipalities and provinces and their own responsibility, they must also respect the fact that there are decisions that need to be taken at national level. In the end, this is also in the interest of all these municipalities. If we have properly regulated our gas supply, our electricity, it will also benefit all municipalities. Then it is also necessary to run high voltage lines in certain places. Even if this is not desirable in a particular municipality, it is necessary to consider the national interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u126	I hear what the Minister says, but I still want to ask him again. Is it conceivable for the Minister to have more influence on municipalities and provinces, even in the light of the recommendations of the Research Council, than to have only advisory rights? When I look at the recommendations of the Research Council, I find that right of advice a little lean. That is also what I hear from municipalities and residents, including municipalities that have declared themselves free of shale gas, for example. That a decision is taken in one place, I can understand that, but there must be more possible than just an advisory right? An opinion can be put to the fore. Of course, this will be justified, but what possibilities does the Minister see between the right to consult local authorities and decision-making at national level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u127	I think it is very desirable that there is a difference between advice and decision-making. I believe that the decision-making process should be clear and that it should be put at the right level. I do not think we should decide what the provinces are about. Provinces should not decide what the municipalities are about, and vice versa should not. I'd really like to keep that apart. If we accept that municipalities say: we are shale gas-free, while other municipalities declare themselves nuclear power-free, oil- and gas-extraction-free, free of motorways and free of large industrial sites, then we no longer have a well-organised country. We have a very well-organised country, because we have three well-functioning governments, because we have well-distributed the tasks and we are also accountable to the people's representatives at every level. I'd like to keep it that way. I believe that with a proper interpretation of the right to advice, by continuing to do justice to a clear decision-making process and by being accountable for the decisions taken, we are doing the best for the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u128	The Minister said: I follow the Chamber in accepting all the recommendations of the report. He made a comment on the mix of responsibilities of the governments at the different levels. That is indeed a point that you need to think carefully about. The authors of the report have given a good deal of thought to this and say that the gas building is currently a closed system and that the Ministry of Economic Affairs under the current system as competent authority is both part of the exploitation and guardian of all the interests at stake. So the report is precisely saying that the problem was in the key decision-making that the Minister says he wants. I would like to look together with the Minister at how we can solve this problem without putting aside the substance of the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u129	I do not see the relationship between the recommendation on the gas building and the advice and decision-making on gas extraction. I do not think what Mrs van Veldhoven has just said about this is contradicted by what Mrs van Veldhoven is now quoting from the recommendations of the Security Research Council regarding the gas building.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u130	The report says: "In the current system, the competent authority, the Ministry of Economic Affairs (EZ), is both part of the exploitation and guardian of all interests at stake. Other ministries and local and provincial authorities have little or no involvement in the decision-making process. As a result, there is also no organised room for counter-noise. This means that the security interest was weakly invested and did not have sufficient place in the decision-making process of gas extraction until 2013. The gas building is a closed system, the safety interest is not invested in it on its own." That's the point in the report that it's about. Perhaps the Minister now sees that there is indeed a link between the involvement of provincial directors and my question. That is why I would like to put it again. I suppose that could then be my first question, because the Minister may not fully understand the question earlier. How can we work together with the Minister to find a solution, respecting the essence of this opinion, and I know that the Minister wants to do so, which is more than: you are only allowed to give advice and we are maintaining the closed system as it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u131	Mrs Van Veldhoven talks about 'together' reaching a solution. However, the Chamber has already voted today on an amendment which provides for advisory rights to be given to provinces and municipalities. So there has already been a ruling from the Chamber on this. As far as I am concerned, there are three things to be said here. The first is advice by provinces and municipalities. That is also important to me. The second is to create opportunities for direct citizen participation in the form of views that can be presented. The third is that we ensure both implementation with the Intergovernmental Service in Groningen and decision-making in The Hague, by creating an interdepartmental service and ensuring that decisions on extraction are taken no longer by the Minister for Economic Affairs but by the Council of Ministers, so that all ministries are involved. That's the right response. Some people seem to think it's only a formality when the Council of Ministers deals with something rather than a minister. That's a misunderstanding. Such a decision will be taken in the Council of Ministers, but will be discussed in a sub-committee, in which all ministers will discuss it in substance. Then there's another official portal. The officials of the ministries concerned will then work on this together. When you place the decision-making at the Ministerial Council, you create a very large involvement with all concerned ministries in The Hague. In this way, I believe that we will give good substance to the advice of the Security Research Council on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u132	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u133	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u134	You asked a question, you received an answer, you asked a second question and you received a second answer. That's how we agreed. If you would like to ask another question, you can put your third question to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u135	Mr President, on a point of order. I do not think it was entirely clear to the Minister what I meant by my question. I would like to ask a very brief follow-up question and it will...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u136	I'm going to interrupt you, because this is not really a point of order. You want a follow-up question, and I said we'll do the questions in two. I give the floor to the Minister so that he can continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u137	I come to the points raised by Mrs Van Tongeren. She's wondering why I'm releasing the entire Crisis and Recovery Act on Groningen. That's a misunderstanding. For the ninth tranche of the Crisis and Recovery Act, we have added a reference to preventive strengthening in Groningen. This has made it possible to speed up certain procedures followed by municipalities and provinces. This means that the procedures remain in place, including opportunities for participation. There remains a real possibility of participation, only the coordination of these procedures is regulated by this reference here, in the interest of speed and safety in Groningen. So we are not giving up the entire Crisis and Recovery Act on preventive strengthening, but only on this part of the whole, which is relevant to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u138	I have read the amendment well and I have also written an opinion article on it, which has been published in the Volkskrant. It is the whole earthquake area and everything that is needed there for safety, repair, prevention, pipes and pipes. So it is not just one concrete project, it is all about dealing with the consequences and preventing further damage in that area. It explicitly states that it concerns all the pipes and pipes coming into that area. That means a lot. The municipalities and the province may not appeal, but it also affects the possibilities of expropriation and the status of monuments and protected villagescapes in that area. All legal grounds for protection can be set aside much more easily. So it is not just about the dike at the Eemshaven, as the amendment was initially proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u139	I didn't mention the dike at the Eemshaven. Nor have I denied that it applies to the entire earthquake zone. I said that a reference to preventive strengthening in Groningen was added to the ninth tranche of the Crisis and Recovery Act. The aim is to speed up certain procedures followed by municipalities and provinces by coordinating decisions. So not the entire Crisis and Recovery Act applies, but just that part that Mrs Van Tongeren just referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u140	I would like to receive a letter from the Minister which states how we should see the amended article in the Crisis and Recovery Act. There really is something else there. I am happy to cough up the literal text, but it is undoubtedly also present in the official support. It says that the entire area is subject to the Crisis and Recovery Act. There is no exception to this. The law applies to all aspects of safety and prevention that the government considers important, so everything related to recovery, prevention and so on. It's all the measures in that area, pretty huge. The province of Groningen and all those municipalities are excluded from that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u141	I would like to make two comments on this. The Crisis and Recovery Act is not a threat, but a means that we have created to speed up where it is justified. It is clear that in Groningen there is a great need for acceleration in a responsible manner. To this end, we want to use the Crisis and Recovery Act in an appropriate manner. The House can count on the information I give, particularly during a plenary debate such as this, to be correct. If the Chamber doesn't hear from me and doesn't receive a letter, it's like I just said. If there is a further useful addition to that, I will certainly not remember it. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked me about the National Coordinator Groningen. She asked if I would be willing to appoint it with the province. It has also been stated that there might be a difference of opinion between the province and me about the person who should do this. The National Coordinator Groningen is going to run a new government service. This consists partly of an interadministrative leg in Groningen and partly of an interdepartmental leg here in The Hague. A minister must always be responsible for this. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I am responsible for that service, but the National Coordinator who is to run the service will be given a separate position. In my memory, the initiative for a National Coordinator was originally taken by the province of Groningen, although under a different name. This means that I have had close discussions with the province and with a representation of the municipalities in Groningen on the further development of the function of the National Coordinator Groningen. This consultation has led to both substantive agreement and agreement on the person; at least I expect that this will lead to a final conclusion in the near future through the Council of Ministers. If so, I can bring it out, but I can reassure the Chamber. In my opinion, this official can do effectively and efficiently for all three governments, in the interest of all three governments, what we in Groningen need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u142	Mrs. Van Tongeren. This will be your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u143	Unfortunately, in every debate there is a final interruption. That person's name's been circulating for a while. I have a very specific question. The Minister began very clearly with the remark: I need to regain confidence in Groningen. There may have been discussions with the old college in Groningen, but there is now a new college. My proposal is that it is not a consultation but a truly formal joint appointment. Then Groninger feels more serious and this person has just a little more chance of not immediately... Well, the confidence in The Hague is not that great in Groningen. My proposal is to give such a person a start with which he or she may actually be able to do something, namely by making it a joint appointment. That doesn't stand in the way of the control and the suspension. Don't let it be: I'll name and give you an advice. No, let it be: we're really going to name this person together. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u144	You can make a difference between how you do the material and how you do it formally. Technically, it's a decision of mine. I have already said the following about the material. The original initiative came from Groningen with a different name. I then spoke with the municipalities and the province about the impact and the impact with them. I have also spoken with them about how they are to be implemented and how they are to be coordinated with them. There's no difference of opinion. Of course, I know that in the meantime there can be another cabinet, that there can be another college of mayor and aldermen in one municipality or that another college of Deputy States is coming. However, in view of the fact that all governments have their responsibilities in terms of consistency and the fact that the process has been conducted as I have just described, I am convinced that there is sufficient support for this implementation of the function of National Coordinator Groningen as well as for the person who is going to do so, and will remain behind the last Provincial State elections. We'll see. The decision in the cabinet is still coming. Once that's over, we can establish that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u145	So amendments adopted by a majority in the Chamber after two and a half years of debate on gas extraction cannot be accepted because the process has to be conducted carefully and we would prefer to take another six months, but the appointment of a National Coordinator Groningen (the Minister knows that there is a change in the Provincial States and it is no secret when the Provincial State elections were held cannot be postponed for a while and this person cannot be appointed together with the new College, which must cooperate with that person. If you want to give this process a good start, you have to take everything to put it right. Apparently it's almost round; that person is aligned with the previous college. He or she must now get support not only throughout Groningen but also at the new college. Is the Minister really not prepared to go through with the new College in Groningen and thereby create the possibility that someone will come to Groningen with real support? Then the trial has a chance of success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u146	Mrs Van Tongeren said that we prefer to postpone decisions for six months, but that is obviously not true. I prefer to make decisions as soon as possible, but they have to be justified. Over the last two years and five months, we have taken a large number of decisions, including far-reaching ones, and we have come to a very close in implementing them. I now turn to the point about the province. I can assume that there is also consistency in a county administration, that people want to keep to agreements made. If that is different and is made known to me, then I am available to talk about it. We can do that tonight. We can do it tomorrow. We can do that the day after tomorrow. I have no signals from Groningen that this should be discussed. I can therefore assume that the commitments made can be met. I also contribute to this, but always remain open to signals from a municipal government or from a provincial government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u148	I have already said the necessary things about the extraction of gas, which Mrs Van Tongeren also mentioned. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked about the refurbishing of the gas building. Others have also spoken about this. Good decision-making on the redesign of the gas building requires a lot of work. The latest changes were made in 2005. This was based on a period of five years of preparation and consultation. "Gas Building" is a term used to describe the cooperation we have established to exploit the world's largest natural gas field at the time. Politicians and their officials do not have the expertise to extract and distribute gas. That's what companies that are skilled in that kind of thing need. At that time Shell and ExxonMobil were attracted. These companies have set up the gas building together with us in a particular construction. On this basis, gas is extracted. The vast majority of the proceeds go to the state. That's what we call the gas building. If we are going to change that again, it must be done carefully. The government needs to know what it wants to change and we need the 2015 Energy Report for that. In this document, the cabinet sets out its role in the future supply of gas. We must, of course, also discuss this role with the Chamber, and conclusions will be drawn from that. So we know exactly what the government wants. Meanwhile, we are also working to approach the entire system of gas extraction in Groningen differently, as I have said to the Chamber on several occasions. This is also what we want to lead to decision-making on 1 January next. On the basis of the Energy Report 2015 and the work that we are currently doing to decide on the gas extraction system, I would like to talk to the other parties within the gas building to see how we can change the way we set things up in line with the recommendations of the Security Research Council and how we can adapt it. I think this is the careful way to deal with this. It concerns major interests, legal obligations and the reliability of the government. That way we can do it in a good way. I say this in response to the comments made by Mrs Van Tongeren and others on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u149	I am sorry, but I can't do anything with this, because this gives a 0.0% insight into how the gas building is really being refurbished. The Research Council for Security recommends that the gas building be fundamentally refurbished. What I hear the Minister say doesn't give me any clues; nothing at all. I would therefore ask the Minister to translate the word 'fundamental' a little more into what he thinks the gas building might look like in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u150	There is nothing I can say but what I have just said. I intend to address this in accordance with the recommendations of the Security Research Council. I had an exchange of views with Mrs Van Veldhoven on a number of occasions in the Chamber in 2013 at a very early stage. I went to look at EBN and the gas building. It was my initiative to do that. I also had an analysis done by ABDTOPConsult. On that basis, I have already made a number of changes. I then felt that, in order to do it more fundamentally, I needed a better analysis of the ambitions of the government for and the vision of the role of gas in the future. I was also supported by the Security Research Council. On that basis, I must ensure that decisions are taken on the gas building. On this basis, I must also engage in discussions with the other parties involved in the gas building. I am also going to take into account the complex research that we are currently doing and in which we are considering whether we can move on to another system on 1 January. So there are two things. First of all, that's the energy report. In it you formulate the government's vision and thus allow the Chamber to have a view on it. You can also see if you can have a common view of this. Secondly, there are the results of the complex research that I have already started and the intention I have to follow the recommendations of the Security Research Council. I think I have given all the answers I can to the Chamber and therefore to Mr Smaling on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u151	Let's see how it's organized now. On the one hand there is the NAM and on the other there is EBN. In Groningen, they still operate together. The report of the OVV indicates that a handful of people are the service. With the Groningers this gives the impression that it is a very closed stronghold where decisions are made in a small circuit. Probably in that circuit it was also said to the director of State surveillance of the Mines: where exactly is your loyalty? It's gotta be the knife in there. That's a little bit more than some cosmetic adjustments here and there. I would like to hear from the Minister that the knife goes in, or let me say it more kindly: that what is there is being thought away and that after that something that can function in the future is being built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u152	I said that in my own words. I have also said that I want to bring this kind of decision-making in line with the recommendations made by the Security Research Council. I also believe that it should not be the case for a small club to take the decisions, as the Security Research Council has said. There must be a broad balance of interests, involving all the parties we have talked about. I do not know that an official, in this case the Inspector-General of State Control of Mines, would have been asked where his loyalty lies. I never asked that question. I think that's a ridiculous question, too. His loyalty must lie with his mission. His organization is the independent supervisor. In the interests of the people of the Netherlands, in particular the citizens who are directly involved, in this case the citizens of Groningen, this should ensure that the facts are on the table, that there are expert recommendations and that the right decisions can be taken. That's the responsibility he has and the loyalty he needs. I don't know who asked that question that suggests otherwise. I'd love to hear that, but I think that's an inappropriate question. It's like I just said. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked for attention to buildings with cultural historical value in Groningen. I very much share the interest of Mrs Van Veldhoven and others. Where the Groningen community and the citizens of Groningen are threatened, it is about security in their homes and buildings, but it is also about their area, the housing market, the economic opportunities, the atmosphere and the preservation of their own face, which is largely determined by the monuments. I fully share the focus on this. That approach is mine, too. That's why there's going to be a separate protocol for the repair of monuments. That protocol is already in place and it is being used by the Centre for Safe Living. It was prepared in collaboration with various parties in the region, such as the Foundation Oude Groninger Kerken. We are not quite out of it yet when it comes to strengthening the Groningen monuments in a responsible way. There are different angles. I think this is an important task for the National Coordinator Groningen. Another example of what he has to pick up is the shaping of good arbitration. That needs to be looked at. I also think it is an important task for the National Coordinator Groningen to pay such attention to the monuments and to come to a responsible conclusion on the task of strengthening them. I will certainly support him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u153	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, this will be your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u154	I welcome this reply from the Minister. We have been to work in Groningen and we have seen beautiful monumental farms. Sometimes the question was whether you should tear it down altogether or choose to make one room so sturdy that people can sleep safely at night. Can the Minister promise that the task of the coordinator will also be to look not only at the churches, but also at those types of monumental buildings, with creativity and attention to what the residents themselves want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u155	Sure. As responsible for the way things are going in Groningen, there are a lot of occasions where you can get abdominal pain. When you think about the monuments that are all there and the role of monuments for the atmosphere, the well-being of the people and the pride of their own area, that is certainly one of the points where you can get abdominal pain. And of course it is not just about churches: it is about all monuments. These are the cultural heritage in Groningen. We have to take care of that and we have to do so in the way I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u156	The Groningers don't want to live in a bunker, so I'm glad the Minister shares my concerns and pays attention to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u157	Mrs Van Veldhoven and others spoke about a separate institute of geology to be set up. It is very important that we have a good, independent research programme. The KNMI, TNO and NWO must be involved in this. The expertise of companies must also be tapped and used, as must the knowledge of national and foreign universities. I'm working on a plan of action for how we can fill that out. Once you've collected that and created a program setup, you can then ask yourself how exactly to shape it in a formal sense. It is possible that the various parties involved will continue to exist, but will virtually form a partnership with a separate direction. You can also make it a separate institution. And in the past, we had the National Geological Service, which has passed into TNO's geological service. Maybe he can play a part in it too. I will look at the various possibilities for this. I am particularly concerned that the independent research programme should be put in place and that it should be set up and implemented in the best possible way. The form in which that happens will be part of my investigation. In the final decision on which I shall inform the Chamber and on which I intend to enter into discussion with the Chamber, I will involve that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u158	Mrs. Mulder, this is also your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u159	Yeah, I'm sorry. I thank the Minister for taking this further. Is he going to send what he intends to do to the Chamber in the autumn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u160	Yes. I have already communicated to the Chamber when I come up with information on the independent research programme. I will include the form in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u161	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u162	Ms Mulder spoke about the different responsibilities and roles of the Groningen Maatschap, part of the gas building. That includes the NAM and the Dutch State. The NAM itself is made up of Shell and ExxonMobil. Mrs Mulder said that one is a licence holder, the other owner and the other operator. There is one authorisation holder in Groningen: the NAM. The NAM wins the gas in Groningen at the expense and risk of the Groningen Maatschap. The NAM is therefore the licence holder and the operator. She's responsible for safety. There is no misunderstanding about this and it is being dealt with at the moment. Then you can say: you have the NAM, the Maatschap Groningen, EBN, the Dutch State and we all find that complicated. But that's the gas building I just talked about. Within that gas building there is no misunderstanding about the responsibility for safety. It's with the license holder and the operator, and that's the NAM. Mrs Mulder asked if I could come up with a proposal on the limitation period in Limburg. She also mentioned a deadline for that. I have already indicated to the Chamber that the limitation period is governed by the Civil Code. It's usually 20 years old. In the case of mining activities, we have made it 30 years. Then you can have discussions about when it's gonna play for 30 years. There are views on this and if we do not agree on it, there is also a judge who can rule on it. In Limburg, there's a lawsuit going on. Moreover, in Limburg, I am engaged in a major technical study which will have to draw conclusions again. I have had an extensive exchange of views with the Chamber on both subjects, and I do not wish to make any other comments on these matters on this occasion than I did at the time. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about the ministers responsible for the task that we, as a government, are facing in Groningen. It asked whether this could not be done by the Minister of State and not by the Minister for Housing and National Service. I think it's okay to keep doing it the way we're doing it now. There is one minister who takes the crucial decisions and is responsible for them. So far these decisions have been taken by the Minister himself, but these decisions are now being prepared by the Minister and then taken by the Council of Ministers. In this way, we will ensure that all the ministers concerned can have their input, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Housing and National Service. In addition, we are creating a separate public service that is interdepartmental in terms of the Hague potential. In this way, the ministries are also involved in the implementation. I would very much like to draw on the expertise of my colleagues, in particular the Minister for Housing and National Service, the Minister of BZK, the Minister of I and M and the Minister of VWS, because the task I am facing is a great one and I would not like to miss their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u163	I just brought the report from the research council. It contains recommendations, one of which states that other ministries "shall also be involved in decision-making on exploration and exploitation of minerals." Our group has also asked questions about this in writing. They've all been answered. The Minister states a number of times that other ministries are certainly involved through the Council of Ministers. Can the Minister imagine that, in our view, this is a rather poor implementation of these recommendations from the Research Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u164	No, we're just going one step further than the Research Council recommends. The Research Council has indicated that the Minister for Economic Affairs, with whom the decision was taken, should also involve other ministries. It could have been. However, I have done so that the crucial decisions are no longer taken by the Minister for Economic Affairs, but by the Council of Ministers. They are therefore taken jointly by the ministers. So I do not involve them in my decision-making, but let them participate in the decision-making process. I will go even further: I will also include them in the implementation by placing them with an interdepartmental branch of an interadministrative service. On this point, therefore, I have deliberately gone beyond the advice of the Security Research Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u165	Decision-making by the Council of Ministers is broad decision-making, but only at the end of a process. Then how does the Minister intend to involve the expertise and expertise of all those ministries at the front of the process? What is illogical about involving the Minister for Housing in a very major operation, such as the strengthening operation? That seems to me to be the most appropriate person to be involved in this at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u166	Absolutely, he's definitely getting involved, too. I refer to the Minister for Housing and Government for the problem of shrinkage and the way in which we deal with corporations and the standards that need to be developed. The Minister of BZK also has his own point of view there, just like the Minister of I and M and the Minister of VWS. I'll be sure to find that cooperation. That is also the consequence if you allow the decision-making process to take place by the Council of Ministers. So you get treatment in the under councils and in the official front portals of the under councils. This means that the administrative apparatus of the various ministries is also involved in the preliminary process. Apart from this formal procedure, I also intend to involve the expertise of my colleagues and the fellow ministries at all stages of policy preparation. I really need those to do my job right. Mrs Dik-Faber also mentioned Woerden's location. Of course, I am prepared to discuss anything and everything about Woerden, but I do not know whether this debate lends itself to that. On April 21, I wrote a letter about it. I'm always available to talk to the Chamber about that. I have already indicated that when deciding on extraction plans there should be explicit assessments and a risk analysis carried out by a mining company, showing that it realizes the risks involved and what it is doing to deal with those risks. The Court has already adopted amendments to the Mining Act on this point. I intend to apply the old rules and recommendations of the Security Research Council, which are shared by the Chamber and me, to existing situations as soon as possible and as far as possible. Again, if the Chamber wishes a separate meeting on Woerden, I am always available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u167	Mrs. Dik-Faber, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u168	I raised the situation in Woerden, also because I was there last week. People feel that reduced gas extraction in Groningen leads to higher or new production elsewhere. My question to the Minister was whether he can confirm that this is absolutely not going to be the case, that reduced gas extraction in Groningen does not lead to higher production elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u169	The reduction and possible further reduction of gas extraction in Groningen cannot be recovered in any way by increasing extraction from the small fields. The level of extraction from the small fields is falling steadily. Most of the gas from the small fields has already been extracted. What's left is won in a stable way. There is no possibility of increasing this extraction so that it can absorb the reduction in Groningen. I can therefore confirm that the small fields are not a solution for the reduction of extraction in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u170	I'm just gonna let it work out for a while. The small fields are not a solution for the reduction in Groningen, but still new fields are addressed throughout the country: Terschelling, Oppenhuizen, Woerden. In the table sent by the Minister to the Chamber, I see a falling line for gas extraction from the small fields in recent years, but at the moment we see all kinds of new locations coming. That's remarkable. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Can the Chamber receive a six-monthly report on this matter? We are very concerned about this together with the residents. We are helping the people in Groningen, but other people may now suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u171	It's not like there are many new locations in sight for small gas fields. The potential of small gas fields has been used as much as possible in recent years. There was less use of the Groningen field at the time. When these small gas fields were mostly depleted and could deliver less, production in the Groninger field was increased. So it just went the other way. Now the mining in Groningen is being reduced. That's what's going on now. There is no possibility to increase the combined production of the small fields again. In many dozens of places in the country, minerals, including gas, are being extracted, but not all kinds of new developments are happening. However, there are old permits that can still be used, that are traded, or for which an adapted application is made. That kind of business does occur. These are dealt with by me on the basis of the rules that apply to them now, but I also keep in mind the rules that will apply in the future. I am applying the current rules too; that is what I am doing, but I am also trying to anticipate new rules as much as possible. One can do that in consultation, the next time I have to keep my decision-making on a certain point until there is clarity about the new rules. I always try to act in such a way that I do not only respect the existing rules, but also the new rules to be expected on the basis of all the discussions that are currently taking place, among other things between the Chamber and me. I have dealt with Mr Smaling's questions on the revision of the gas building. I also touched on the other points made by Mr Smaling, when I visited all the main points one by one. Mr Öztürk asked who would pay the 30 billion and what such an operation would look like. I never mentioned the amount of 30 billion. I did say, however, that on the basis of an analysis between 30,000 and 90,000 houses should be strengthened on the basis of the safety contours as initially established. We are now revisiting the safety contours, not only on the basis of the reduced gas extraction process, which has effects as well as on the basis of new data. That data will be provided by the NAM by 1 May at the latest. The SodM gives an opinion on this. Then the new contours will be discussed. These could lead to fewer houses and other buildings being strengthened than previously thought. Also, the investment per house, per building, can be less than we first thought. Whether that's the case, we have to wait and see. That's under review now. The initial estimate was 30,000 to 90,000, but there's now research on the basis of which you might conclude that it could be less. I therefore find it unrealistic to speculate about 152,000 and 30 billion. I suggest that we wait until we have more and more recent information about this. I have dealt with Mr Smaling's points. He indicated that in his opinion the NAM denies the core of the report of the Research Council for Security. I think that the NAM as an organisation with legal personality can draw its own conclusions, but it is a licence holder and operator and ultimately I decide here, and in the new set-up that has just been discussed, the Council of Ministers, what decisions are being taken on extraction. That's the point. I responded to the report for the Security Research Council. I have said how we do the mining and what the trade-offs are. I can't tell the NAM how to react. It is itself responsible for the wording it chooses and the conclusions it draws. I think she is also well placed to assume that responsibility and to explain it to those for whom this is desired. My own responsibility is to ensure that the conditions for extraction are implemented even if that decision has been taken. With the NAM I do not discuss the execution. It is the organisation responsible for the implementation of what we have decided here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u172	I give the floor to Mr Smaling for his last interruption in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u173	Is the Minister not surprised that NAM's appreciation differs so much from his? Okay, she has her own legal personality, but of course she also plays a very important role in this whole story. It is maintained at high and low levels that until the earthquake in Huizinge there was no insight into the fact that seismicity was a potential risk to safety. I saw that graph. It was small. We couldn't all see those bars, but it was clear that between 2003 and 2011 there was a significant increase in tremor activity. That is one point and there is also the way in which the NAM now expresses this persistence. How does the Minister feel about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u174	On what I find about what we could have known for now, before 2014, before 2013, what information has become available in the past and what conclusions have been drawn from it, I have already spoken out. I look back in the same way as the Chamber and others involved. We talked about the data available on the maximum force of the earthquake. First it was 3.3 and finally 3.9 and then when you see what effect the earthquake at Huizinge had with 3.6. At the beginning of my initial contribution, I gave my opinion on the data on the strength of the earthquakes, their impact on the damage, the risks and the impact of that damage on the citizens of Groningen and on the society of Groningen. I mainly deal with the NAM when it comes to the execution. The NAM should also contribute to what I think should be done. I can only say that I have already said that my experience with the NAM is positive. There is always full willingness to accept the decision-making of the government and to implement it formally and materially as the government wishes. So I have no complaints about the NAM. I am not going to complain about the exact wording with which it responds to the report of the Security Research Council. That's her responsibility. I'm interested in two things. What do we, as a government, think? That's what I said. What does the NAM do to ensure that what we want happens? I'm happy about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u175	You can do all that, but you're in the gas building together and in the Groningen Maatschap. You can read in the report of the Research Council that all parties have seen the draft report and that they have been able to comment on factual inaccuracies. Nevertheless, the NAM remains completely in denial. Isn't that totally inappropriate to the Groningen people? The NAM may make its own considerations, but it is amazing that her reaction is so far from what is in the report and how the Groningers would like to deal with the NAM in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u176	I do not think that the reaction of the director of the NAM and the words he has chosen is an expression of someone who is in denial. I think that the NAM is fully aware of what is going on and what has happened and that she sees her own role in it well. The wording chosen by NAM is its wording. To the extent that they differ from my words on behalf of the cabinet, I do not agree, but it is her own responsibility. I am particularly concerned with the outcome of our decision-making as those responsible, me as the primary responsibility, the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives. What we decide together must be implemented exactly. I don't complain about that about the NAM. Mrs Klever said that for a year now I have been exploring the possibilities of another gas system, which could be introduced on 1 January. I can only say to the Chamber that I never use research as an opportunity to move something forward. I always use research to arrive at careful decision-making. I'll try to do those tests as soon as possible. I am also trying to reach a decision quickly and to ensure that the decision-making process is transparent. There are many consequences to a different design of our gas extraction and to a different angle of view. The consequences are currently being investigated. If I could have done it sooner, I would have done it before. I can assure Mrs Klever that the plan to achieve this by 1 January is very ambitious. I will have to do my best to make it all happen at the rate I intend to do. Mrs Klever said that visual inspections from the street do not have that much; you should do a thorough investigation right away. Those who do visual inspections in Groningen are the ones who also enter the buildings. So they know what is going on in certain buildings. They do visual inspections from the street. Then they recognize buildings and say that, on the basis of what we have already seen, those and those buildings should not be the first priority, but other buildings should, on the basis of what we know, be the first priority. That's what happens next. They do not have the supreme wisdom in rent, so from other sides there can be input on the basis of which it is re-examined and adapted. It's about doing it all as efficiently as possible. This means: first a coarse sieve, then finer sieves and finally the realization of the execution, starting in the core area and with the most vulnerable homes. This system is to the best of our knowledge and can be developed by experts. I have been informed of this and I have a great deal of confidence in the approach adopted. This year, 11,000 inspections are taking place in different ways. I believe that with these inspections and the approach adopted, we can achieve an optimal result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u177	The point with these visual inspections is that you can't tell from the outside if, for example, a foundation has been compromised. I understand that in Loppersum houses from the outside were visually inspected and found safe, while later, after thorough inspection at the request of the residents, 43 homes had to be evacuated immediately. I'd like to hear from the Minister whether that story is true, but if it did, it's obviously a shame to use your capacity for visual inspection. In fact, you do double work: first the visual inspection and then the thorough inspection, which can show something quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u178	Visual inspections are very important in order to make a first rough selection and then refine it, as I have just indicated. Mrs Klever is now talking about Jarino residences. Those homes were built in the 1960s and 1970s and they are all owned by private individuals. Very early on, the suspicion was that there were construction errors in those houses. These structural errors occur to a lesser extent in some of the Jarino houses. Some of them are very serious. You can first determine by visual inspection that those Jarino residences are there. Then you go and see in which kind of homes the big problems occur. Problems may also arise in other homes. Research has also been carried out on this issue, whether or not it is for residents. Of course, it's very good that residents come up with their clues. This information has also come from other quarters. The investigations that are needed have been completed. In the case of Loppersum, the most far-reaching conclusion has been drawn for the time being, namely that housing should not be strengthened, but rather that it should be replaced. That's what the residents have been talking about. We try not to allow visual inspections to be the total wisdom, but to make them part of a process through which you ultimately do what is important, namely: start taking the necessary measures in the core area, in the homes that are the weakest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u179	Construction errors can occur at any home. A affected foundation can also occur with any home. Isn't it smarter to thoroughly inspect every home in the core area, instead of first on the outside and then on the inside? That only takes extra time and you cannot rely on such an inspection only from the outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u180	No, but it's not like, if you've done an outside inspection, that's it. There may also be other information, on the basis of which you do additional research. It may also be that you do a visual inspection and say: we'll start with those homes first and we'll do the others later. You can do that later or earlier; that is all part of the whole process you have to go through. So far, we're going from 30,000 to 90,000 homes. We said they should be inspected. This year 11,000 are being inspected. We do that working from the core area where the problems started and are the biggest. We'll focus on the weakest homes. We do so in the way I have just indicated, in different layers, but we are open to signals. I think that's the best way. Mrs Klever spoke about the problems of repairing the damage. Mr Vos has also spoken about this on several occasions. The complex cases of damage are cases which stop the case and which must also be brought to a conclusion. My ambition is always to bring it to a conclusion, without the residents feeling compelled to go to court with it. This means first the expertise of Centrum Secure Living. In the past it was someone commissioned by the NAM, but now it is someone commissioned by the Centrum Safe Living. If people are not satisfied with this, they may appoint a second valuer expert on behalf of Centrum Secure Living. If this also does not lead to agreement, there will be an arbitration, which is binding on the NAM. It is carried out by the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. The National Coordinator Groningen will examine whether this is the optimal interpretation of the arbitration, or whether it can be filled in in another way. I think that is a good way, also because those involved, those who have damage, can at any time use the Technical Committee on Soil Movement to obtain technical advice on how different aspects should be assessed. So I think this is the best way. Nevertheless, there are a large number of complex cases that have been going on for a long time. I have exchanged with the Chamber that it is my ambition to have this resolved by the end of this year. So far, I have noted that we are on the road which gives us the prospect of achieving this final goal by the end of this year. We must realise that the outcome may not always be the outcome that the person concerned wants. A reasonable attempt must be made to find a solution. It may always be that the person concerned, for his or her muffled reasons, is not yet able to take a decision, does not wish to take certain steps or does not agree in the end, but does not want to take another step either. It may also be that you have to solve a damage case by saying that everything is done that is reasonable, that nothing else is possible and that the book is closed. However, the end result of all these complex cases must be that at the end of the year we eliminated the old stock. Then we can concentrate on the many new cases that have already been reported and which are now being treated. The spokesman for the Animal Party, Mrs Ouwehand, asked about the precautionary principle. The precautionary principle means that the administration must also take action if things are not yet scientifically substantiated. I did. If it hasn't been substantiated, we're already on it. I have therefore also taken into account the precautionary principle when agreeing to the extraction plan of the NAM for Groningen. I also intend to continue to do so. Mrs Ouwehand also asked if I am prepared to develop scenarios for less extraction. I have just gone into this in more detail. There are a lot of scenarios for it. I've just been going over them in their different variants, with the decision-making moments. I'll see if I left anything. I have not yet responded to the points raised by Mr Bosman, which are different from what has just been raised. Mr Bosman has mainly given an analysis of his appreciation of what has happened and of the attitude he expects from me and from those responsible for solving the problems. I agree with his analysis. I have tried to do so so so far, and I intend to continue to do so in the way Mr Bosman has outlined. I feel that involvement every day. Not a week goes by or I am specifically involved in decision-making on Groningen. It's a big part of my job and it's a big responsibility to carry, but it's a responsibility that the people in the area have earned. They have been afflicted, and they have not asked for it. It is a national interest, but the consequences are mainly on them, on them individually, on their families and on their communities, and it is my responsibility to put that right as soon as possible, in the way Mr Bosman has put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u181	I had asked whether the government still has enough room, given the importance of security in relation to economic interests. Does the government still have enough room in view of the concessions to the NAM and what the minister regularly points out, namely that he cannot just do what he wants, given the legal consequences? This is still independent of the political choice of reducing gas production. Is the Minister currently satisfied with the scope we have for action under the precautionary principle in the interests of security, or does he think that things should be changed? If so, how does he see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u182	I think I have the powers to fulfil my responsibilities. However, it is also my responsibility to take careful decisions. If I don't, decisions won't last. These decisions will then be challenged and destroyed in one way or another. That doesn't help me either. So, yeah, I have plenty of options, but that doesn't mean I can just make a decision. I have to do that carefully. That is what I am expected to do, and I wish to do so myself. This is also the best guarantee for the maintenance and implementation of these decisions, even if there is a need to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u183	This does not reassure me, because the Minister says two things that are contrary to each other. Yeah, he's got plenty of room, but his decision can be challenged, then it's off the table. That's what we're talking about. Is the Minister prepared to make an analysis of that? The Chamber today adopted an amendment which I am very pleased with, which provides more grounds not to issue a permit. This gives the Minister more tools to take his responsibility on more grounds than is currently possible. The question is, however, what about the present and future concessions and the effective space that the Minister holds for himself to intervene when things happen that run counter to the interests of security. That's where I hear him saying he has to be careful not to go up against the state. I understand that, but we have to look ahead there and see how we are going to deal with it in the future, so that we do not run the risk of processes if we want to do something in the interests of security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u184	No, one is very good at aligning with the other. I am satisfied with the powers I have and the possibilities to influence the matter. As far as I would like to improve this in parts, I am able to make proposals on this and we, as legislators, are jointly able to amend and improve it. As far as we consider it necessary, we can do so. But once those powers have been or have not been adapted and refined, it is up to you to use them responsibly. You have to make a careful decision. If you do not, then you can be addressed to that carelessness and have consequences for maintaining those decisions. So yes, I am satisfied with my powers as well, and I am also able to amend them with the Chamber if I consider that necessary. I am also able to make careful use of these powers. That is why I am confident that it will be maintained and implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u185	Much of this debate is about giving citizens more participation, through bureaucratic and administrative solutions. In my speech, I asked the Minister whether he was prepared to look at a practical solution, namely to give the citizen himself more freedom of choice as regards his home. Suppose a thorough inspection shows that the house needs to be strengthened, but that it is just below the standard for an unsafe house to be evacuated immediately. Then that house is just on or around that standard. Is the Minister prepared to give the citizen the choice of whether he wants to strengthen that house or whether he prefers to abandon it and opt for a buy-out arrangement? Such a strengthening has a huge impact on residents. They have to leave the house for a few months, and that's a lot of stress and nuisance. Is the Minister prepared to give the residents that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u186	I have already talked very extensively with the Chamber about the buy-out arrangement. The final conclusion is that we are going to see what is needed to make the housing market work properly. Various measures are needed for this. In addition to what we are already doing, as Mr Vos rightly said, it may be desirable to include the purchase of houses in a certain way. However, I do not intend to buy the area empty. I want to maintain that area as one of the valuable regions of our country with a long history and to protect its coherence. The individual freedom of people is already there at the moment. I told you the other day in a debate with the Chamber that if you have any damage, you can have that damage repaired by the Center of Safe Living. You can also have the damage repaired by a contractor you choose and the bill will then be paid by the Centre Secure Living. You can just get the money and do whatever you want with it. For the latter 70% of people choose. This freedom is already widely used at the moment. If you want to strengthen a property, it requires a large-scale operation, given what is necessary for the security of that area. Asked how exactly you're gonna do that. I think it would be wise to wait for the new contour map first. Then we know exactly what the total task is for which number of buildings and what amounts should be placed in them. Then we can see what the National Coordinator Groningen, who is responsible for ensuring the speedy implementation of the task we are facing, is developing proposals in this respect. I do not want to anticipate that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u187	It is a pity that the Minister does not want the buy-out scheme that the PVV has asked for a number of times, but let us concentrate on where we might come together. That's the strengthening. In any case, is the Minister prepared to take that point, so that the freedom of choice for the citizen is also taken seriously, and that at some point the citizen himself can decide whether or not to leave his home in order to strengthen it, with all the inconvenience it causes, or that he says: I am not going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u188	If you need to strengthen 30,000 to 90,000 houses, maybe there are 15,000 to 60,000 houses, then that is a large-scale operation which we would like to see completed as soon as possible, in the interests of the safety of the people in the area. Then it is necessary to look at things also in connection, to take into account shrinkage, what the housing corporations were already working on and the urban and village scanning experiences we have already gained in the past. All these things must be involved and then a method must be chosen in such a way that you can achieve speed in the process, together with the maximum involvement of the people who it is about. This must be linked. I've made a number of statements about exactly how you're shaping that, and I've said it again tonight. In addition to this and in anticipation of the activities of the National Coordinator Groningen, I do not wish to make any further comments about this. Mr. Chairman. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u189	Thank you. The first deadline has ended. I suggest that we suspend for a short time and then continue with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u190	We will continue with the second term on the part of the Chamber in the debate on the report of the Research Council for Security in relation to the gas building in the Netherlands. I propose that only those Members who give their views should be allowed to speak in this time limit. During the Minister's input, there is the possibility of asking a clearer question. The second-term speaking time shall be two minutes, including the reading of any motions. I call Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u191	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas less gas extraction reduces the risk of earthquakes;]] [[noting that the Minister writes that for the security of supply in normal years a production of gas of 21 plus 2 billion mper years is sufficient;]] [[calls on the government to reduce gas extraction to 21 + 2 billion m and only to gain up to 30 billion m in extreme cold conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Research Council for Security recommends that the citizens of Groningen be more involved in the decision-making on gas extraction;]] [[noting that the government intends to appoint a National Coordinator for Groningen on the gas file;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint the National Coordinator jointly and on an equal basis with the Province of Groningen and to ensure a strong involvement of the Province of Groningen and the municipalities in the planning and implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State surveillance of the Mines recommended that the five clusters around Loppersum be completely enclosed;]] [[noting that the Council of State considered that gas from the clusters around Loppersum should only be extracted if this is necessary for the security of supply;]] [[noting that the Minister did not wish to include the clusters because a severe winter reopening would take too long;]] [[calls on the Government to fully close the clusters around Loppersum unless the Government can provide the Chamber with technical evidence that reopening cannot take place within a relatively short period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-147]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-148]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Smaling and Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u192	I would like to make one more comment on the role of the House of Representatives. We're co-legislators, besides the minister. If the House of Representatives votes in large majority in favour of amendments, the Minister should not decide very easily to put them aside and do something only in the autumn because it does not suit him now, my group believes. That is disavouring the role of the House of Representatives in our democratic system. I would be very sorry if this Minister decided to do so in the Council of Ministers. So I very much hope that this will not happen next Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u193	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his commitment to the monumental heritage in the province of Groningen. Thank you also for his commitment to an independent research programme to bring together and bring together the fragmented knowledge that exists in the Netherlands. We would like to look forward to the Minister's proposals on the form in which they should be made; we are in any case very much in favour of them. Perhaps the Minister could also learn something from the experience gained in Germany with an institute to which my colleague from the CDA referred. My concern that the gas building remains a closed club remains a bit. Of course, the disadvantage of mixing responsibilities must be weighed against this, but we must carefully consider the recommendations made in the report of the Research Council. The Chamber would like to take part in this on the basis of scenarios. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that participation by the Groningen region in the extraction of gas from the Groningen field should be improved;]] [[calls on the Government to examine different scenarios on how to strengthen the role of the Groningen in decision-making on gas production in their region and to inform the Court of Justice in the autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Agnes Mulder, Dik-Faber, Smaling, Klever, Klever and Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u194	A second concern of my group concerns the extraction ceiling. Every time we talk about gas extraction, we manage to bring the ceiling down a little further, but we still have an official gas extraction decision of 39 billion m. That is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, following the statements of the Council of State on the extraction of gas in Loppersum, the government has indicated that the extraction of gas in 2015 will never exceed 36.4 billion m;]] [[calls on the Government to legally anchor the new 36.4 billion m ceiling in the mining decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u195	I would like to thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u196	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his commitment to come to the Chamber in the third week of May with the opportunity to debate the Minister's new decision on gas extraction before 1 July. I would like to emphasise that a proper analysis of the SodM is very important for the CDA. We would not be in favour of too much of this analysis, because the NAM has taken a great deal of time and has benefited from the risk analysis being as small as possible. The SodM must look very closely at this as far as we are concerned. Thank you for the commitment of an independent research programme. In the autumn, the Minister will inform the Chamber of how he sees its guarantee and organisation. I've got two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the limitation period for mining damage as a result of the Agnes Mulder motion (29023, No. 157) before the proposed legislative amendment of the Mining Act to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Smaling, Mr Klever and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u197	The reason for tabling this motion was that we would like to raise this particular point, in anticipation of the major research that the Minister is going to carry out in Limburg. I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the Government, where the owner or owners of a mining licence are not the same as the operator, owner or owner, to share responsibility for the safety of the extraction and to lay it down in the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u198	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. I had three, but the Minister made a clear commitment to persuade NAM to make available as soon as possible the data it collects on the safety of buildings, infrastructure, industrial installations, schools and health care institutions. That's why I'm dropping that third motion. My first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in addition to building and safety standards for housing, standards for other buildings, industrial installations and infrastructure should be established rapidly;]] [[Whereas the safety of public institutions such as schools and health care institutions needs to be rapidly improved;]] [[calls on the Government to rapidly develop building and safety standards for industrial installations, infrastructure and other buildings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u199	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I was talking through you. It's a little later and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u200	Yes, you're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u201	... then you want to finish it. My next motion is about the positioning of SodM. That's not the least of the points. I submit her together with my colleague from GroenLinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Research Council for Security (OVV) has concluded that the safety importance of gas extraction has not been sufficiently taken into account in recent decades;]] [[noting that the OVV recommended a more independent position of State supervision of the Mines (SodM) vis-à-vis the Ministry of Economic Affairs (EZ);]] [[Whereas there are several possibilities for this, including a more independent position within the Ministry of EZ or another ministry, an agency or a Zbo;]] [[calls on the Minister, several options to position SodM more independently than at present, making pros and cons clear, and submitting these options to the Chamber for the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u202	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the first-term questions. I'm filing two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the interest of the inhabitants of the province of Groningen, the volume of gas production should be reduced;]] [[considers that reduced gas extraction in Groningen should not lead to increased extraction at other locations, but rather that gas production in the Netherlands should be reduced;]] [[calls on the Government not to compensate for the reduced gas production from the Groningen field with higher production from the small fields, the opening of new sites or the extraction of shale gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u203	I tabled this motion because I did not fully understand what the plans were in the interrupting debate with the Minister. As far as existing locations are concerned, the trend is indeed downward, but there are new locations that are being used, literally and figuratively, throughout the country. That can't be the intention. The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Research Council for Security recommends that other ministries should also be involved in decision-making on exploration and exploitation of minerals, in particular Infrastructure and Environment and Housing and National Service;]] [[Whereas strengthening the safety importance also means fundamentally adapting the structure of the gas building;]] [[Considers that the roles of "shareholder" and "policymaker" have become too interwoven with the Ministry of Economic Affairs;]] [[calls on the Government, formal involvement of the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment in decisions on the extraction plan and the Minister for Housing and National Service to formally lay down legislation in the implementation of the reinforcement operation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u204	I'm not filing my third motion. It is about removing the obligation to connect to the gas network. We are still discussing this with the Minister after the appearance of the heat vision. However, I think it is extremely important that we really take steps together to get rid of our gas addiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u205	Mr. Chairman. I'm not filing any motions. I have only one minute's speaking time, so I would just like to put one specific question to the Minister. You can see that the restoration of the homes in Groningen sometimes costs more than building a new home. We are concerned with the freedom of choice of citizens in Groningen. Will the Minister allow the Groningers, if the cost of restoring their homes is higher than new buildings, to build a house with that money somewhere else in Groningen? That way, you will respect the freedom of choice of the Groningers. Then people elsewhere, for example in a shrinking area, can build a new existence and do not have to be affected every night and night by a quake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u206	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing three motions. The first is about the advisory right. That motion is an attempt to support the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Security Research Council recommends that provinces and municipalities be given a role in the decision-making process on deep subsurface interventions;]] [[Considering that in 2014 the Gasunie indicated in a report that a production limit of 27 billion m from the Groningenveld is sufficient in an average year for all domestic and foreign obligations;]] [[Calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to consider seriously the request of the incoming Deputy States of Groningen in 2015 for a further decision to be taken and to inform the Court of Justice before 1 July 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u207	The second motion concerns communication with citizens. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Groningers are looking for clarity about gas extraction and improvement and restoration of homes and other buildings in the near future;]] [[considers that there should be no ambiguity in definition;]] [[points out that the terms "safety," "risk" and "uncertainty" are defined in such a way and in such a way as to enable investigations and mining decisions to be reviewed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u208	My final motion concerns the gas building. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Research Council for Security writes that the gas building is a closed and closed community where the outside world, including the House of Representatives, knows little about its functioning in practice;]] [[Whereas the Security Research Council recommends that the structure of the gas building be fundamentally adapted;]] [[invites the Government, when submitting this amendment to the Chamber, to indicate explicitly what is fundamental to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u209	I also hope that at the next meeting of the First Chamber on a Tuesday, the Mining Act will simply be on the agenda for the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u210	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the temperature was normal or even warmer than average in the first four months of this year;]] [[whereas the current production ceiling is higher than required for security of supply, even if we get Siberian conditions next autumn;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the production ceiling for gas extraction from the Groningen field to a maximum of 30 billion m for the current year 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present consolidation exercise is a rather impossible task which will last for decades;]] [[Whereas the strict application of the standard results in sometimes undesirable adaptation of homes where residents are forced to leave their homes for months;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the Groningen authorities to decide whether their home remains unadapted, strengthened or can be bought out, provided that there is no acute risk of collapse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that visual street inspections do not provide sufficient information on the state of housing;]] [[Whereas 43 dwellings in Loppersum were found safe after visual inspection, but after a more detailed inspection at the request of the residents were considered ripe for demolition;]] [[Whereas no value or safety can be derived from these visual street inspections;]] [[calls on the Government to stop visual street inspections and use this capacity to carry out in-depth inspections immediately so that residents have immediate clarity about the state of their home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-161]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-162]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u211	Finally, I have one question for the Minister. This is about the amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof adopted this afternoon by a large majority of this Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he will discuss this in the Council of Ministers. My question is, what exactly does he want to discuss? As I know, this amendment has no financial consequences, nor is it part of the coalition agreement. This is quite apart from the principle that this is a wish of the House of Representatives, which I do not think the Minister can simply ignore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u212	Mr. Chairman. I, too, have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet says to put security first;]] [[noting that research shows that, from a security point of view, the maximum gas production ceiling in the Groningenveld is 12 billion m per year, but that the cabinet has not yet wanted to develop this route;]] [[calls on the government to develop scenarios to reduce production ceilings to 12 billion m of gas per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet will take a new decision on the extraction of gas in the Groningenveld for 2015 and 2016, considering the importance of security of supply;]] [[noting that research shows that the production band to meet this security of supply is 21 to 35 billion m per year;]] [[Whereas the importance of the security of the Groningen people calls for the lowest possible variant, but the cabinet has not yet wanted to explore this route;]] [[calls on the Government to develop scenarios to reduce production ceilings for 2015 and 2016 to 21 billion m of gas per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-164]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u213	If the Minister says in those scenarios that he can't just intervene, I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the importance of the legal status of the mining operator, such as the NAM, may be at odds with the task of the public authorities at all times to protect the safety of citizens from any consequences of (these) mining activities;]] [[calls on the government to make proposals to improve the balance between the legal position of the (gas) operator on the one hand and the (legal) capacity of the government to intervene in the interests of security on the other, in favour of the responsibility of the government to safeguard the public interest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u214	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs to respond to the motions tabled and to answer the only outstanding question. Twenty motions have been tabled. I therefore propose that only the author of a motion should be able to put a single enlightening question. But that doesn't necessarily have to be done, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u215	Madam President. In the motion in part No. 147 asks Mrs Van Tongeren to return the gas extraction to 21 billion cubic metres plus 2 billion cubic metres. I have indicated which decision-making will take place on 1 July this year and which decision-making will take place on 1 January next. That deviates from what Mrs Van Tongeren stated in her motion. The motion in part No. 147 I therefore advise against. In the motion in part No. 148 Ms Van Tongeren and Mrs Dik-Faber asked the government to appoint the National Coordinator together with Groningen. I have indicated that there will be a public service, that this will be my responsibility and that I will appoint the National Coordinator. But I have also indicated the role of the province and the municipalities so far, and that this role is significant. I can therefore assume that the decision-making process in this area has the administrative support of the region. For this reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 148. In the motion in part No. 149 ask Mrs Van Tongeren, Mr Smaling and Mrs Ouwehand to completely close the clusters around Loppersum, unless the government can provide the Chamber with technical evidence that reopening is not possible in a relatively short time. I don't recommend that motion. If the wells in the Loppersum cluster, in the center of the area, are completely enclosed and you want to start them again, this will take a few weeks. It may be that the cold falls in very quickly and you need the gas very quickly to prevent people from standing in the cold. If you keep the clusters at a very low level, so that they keep running technically, it is possible to extract extra gas in the very short term if that is really necessary. I wouldn't want that delay for a few weeks. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 149.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u216	I spoke to a meteorologist. He has said that it has never happened that it was from a normal winter insenen -17°C with -9°C during the day without meteorologists having seen it. And Mr Jan de Jong I have asked specifically about it and he really is an expert in... has said that it can be done in less than a week. I would therefore like to receive a letter from the government to explain this further. Because we've heard this story about the watchflame, but I can't find anywhere in any literature or any mining expert that it should stay on the watchflame. In contrast, I have heard from one of the experts, Jan de Jong, former chairman of the supervisory board, that it is possible in less than a week. So is the Minister prepared to send a letter to the Chamber explaining it again so that we can check the government for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u217	No. I'll tell the Chamber it'll take a few weeks. If the wells are completely shut down and you need them, it takes a few weeks to get them back into operation. That's not justified if there's a rapid cold coming in. If you leave the clusters on standby, as it's called, you can do it in a few hours. Well, that's fair enough. That is why I have the motion in part No. 149 I now advise and advise against it again. In the motion-Van Veldhoven c.s. in piece No. 150 calls on the government to examine different scenarios for strengthening the role of the Groningers in decision-making on gas production. I indicated that in October I will issue a bill and, following the recommendation of the Security Research Council, indicate how I intend to change the Mining Act. This is one of the points in the picture. I am prepared to base my final conclusion in the legislative proposal on scenarios that have then been dealt with first. That means I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 151 by Mrs Van Veldhoven, in which the government is asked to legally anchor the new ceiling of 36.4 billion cubic metres in the mining decision. I've already gone into the 36.4 in detail. I have also talked about the 1 billion that has already been won and also about what is needed to keep the matter technically going in case the storage in Norg needs to be filled up or there is a sudden cold, to which a response must be given. I have also indicated the relative of these 36.4 + 1 + x by pointing out the decision-making process which will take place on 1 July and which is also about a lower number than that 36,4. Therefore, I advise against this motion. The Council of Ministers will take a decision on 1 July on the gas extraction which will eventually take place in 2015. This will therefore be based on an opinion which will be given to us by the State surveillance of the Mines on request. The motion in part No. 152 by Mrs Mulder c.s. calls on the Government to forward the investigation into the limitation period of mining damage prior to the proposed legislative amendment of the Mining Act to the Chamber. This means that Mrs Mulder wants that investigation to take place in October when the Mining Act was amended. I indicated to the Chamber in my letter of 20 June 2014 what I will do with regard to the information to the Chamber on that point. I believe that it is possible to do so before the amendment of the law, which I also discussed with the Chamber at the time. That is why I leave this motion to the House. In the Mulder motion in part No. 153 At least if the Chamber were to agree with Mrs Mulder, if the owner or owners of a mining licence are not the same as the operator, the owner or owners, the government would ask the government to share responsibility for the safety of the extraction and to lay this down in the law. I have said what is at stake here. I don't think there's been a misunderstanding. A marketing authorisation holder or several marketing authorisation holders shall not be able to evade their responsibility for the extraction. Authorisation holders shall be jointly responsible for the extraction and the consequences thereof. There is no misunderstanding about that. That is why this motion is not necessary and I advise against the Mulder motion in part No. 153. In his motion in part No. 154 pointed out to Mr Vos that he wanted standards to be developed quickly for industrial installations, infrastructure and other buildings. I've indicated the importance of customization. I have also indicated what we started with: cover the buildings up to and including three floors, and especially the houses. I have said that standards for the other categories should be developed accordingly. I certainly do not want to give rise to the expectation that these standards can be easily achieved. Moreover, customisation is absolutely necessary. But those standards need to be established. It takes time. Before everything is completely set in standards, we are a few years further. In the meantime, things have to be done. With this additional information I can give the opinion on the Vos motion in part No. 154 leave to the Chamber. In the Vos/Van Tongeren motion to piece No. 155 suggest to the proposers that different options should be examined as regards making State surveillance of the Mines more independent. I have indicated that I want to position State surveillance on the Mines more independently and also to change the legislation in that regard. I have also indicated that there is a general investigation of the supervisors and that this is being accelerated, also because of the discussion that is currently taking place on State supervision of the Mines. I believe that the final legislative proposal should address the various options to comply with the recommendations of the Research Council. This should lead to a cabinet conclusion. I'll leave this motion to the Chamber. In her motion in part No. 156 Ms Dik-Faber asked the government not to compensate for the reduced gas production from the Groningen field with higher production from the small fields. I have already explained that this cannot be the case because extraction from the small fields is not a solution to the reduced extraction from the Groningen field. I have said that I must comply with the rules that apply to this, and that I am making as much progress as possible on expected rules. I cannot go any further on this point. So I'm not suggesting this motion. In the motion-Dik-Faber/Van Tongeren to piece No. 157 the government is invited to establish the formal involvement of the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment and the Minister for Housing and National Service. I do not recommend this motion because I have given the best possible effect to the involvement of these and other ministers, as I have just indicated. This motion does not, in my opinion, provide an improvement, so I advise her. In his motion in part No. 158 Mr Smaling asked the government to give serious consideration to the request made by the Deputy States of Groningen in 2015 for further decision-making. I have indicated how far-reaching the decision-making process is that we are preparing. This applies not only to the short term, i.e. to the decision-making process on 1 July 2015, but also to the decision-making process on 1 January 2016. I think we're doing it diligently and carefully. I would like to do what I have had the pleasure of exchanging extensively with the Chamber on several occasions. This applies to the decision-making of both 1 July 2015 and 1 January 2016. So I'm not suggesting this motion. In his motion in part No. 159 Mr Smaling said that the concepts of safety, risk and insecurity should be formulated intelligibly so that investigations and mining decisions can be examined. I think this is indeed necessary. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House. In his motion in part No. 160 Mr Smaling asked the government to submit to the Chamber what was fundamental to its views on the change in the gas building. I wonder if this isn't a bit of a word game. We want to do justice to the recommendation of the Security Research Council. I have indicated what we need to make a decision on the gas building. After that, of course, there is still a need to discuss the implications of this and the way in which it should be implemented. I don't feel like creating a disagreement with the Chamber that isn't there. I think I should do justice to the ruling of the Security Research Council. I'll do the same. If that is the intention of Mr Smaling's motion, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u218	Because of what the Minister has said now, I am also okay with withdrawing my motion. I think we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u219	Since the Smaling motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u220	In her motion in part No. 161 Ms Klever asked the government to reduce the production ceiling for gas extraction from the Groningen field to a maximum of 30 billion m for the current year 2015. I have no further new perspectives to add to that. I have explained how it will be as far as I am concerned as from 1 July 2015 and 1 January 2016. I would like the support of the Chamber, including that of Mrs Klever and her group. I advise against this motion. In the Klever motion in part No. 162 the government is asked to let the Groningen decide whether their home remains unadapted, strengthened or can be bought out. I don't think you can force property owners to strengthen their homes. There may be special situations. What if something had to happen to a three-storey building? The individual owners of the apartments then form that building together. Suppose there's someone living in the middle of the building who doesn't want what everyone else wants and whatever it takes to keep everyone safe. Then there may be a special situation. There are many special situations conceivable in Groningen. I agree with Mrs Klever's premise that you cannot force people to strengthen their homes. However, given the great challenge we face, the particular situations also require an adequate response. The National Coordinator is also called on to do so. In such situations, too, we will have to make sensible decisions. Like the motion in part No. 162 now, I must dissuade her. In the Klever motion in part No. 163 is being asked to stop visual street inspections. I'm not prepared to do that. I advise against this motion. In the motion-Ouwehand in part No. 164 calls for scenarios to be developed to reduce production ceilings to 12 billion m of gas per year. I recommend this motion because I want to do what was previously exchanged with the Chamber on 1 July and 1 January. In the motion-Ouwehand in part No. 165 calls for scenarios to be developed to reduce production ceilings to 21 billion m of gas per year. I also advise against this motion, with the same argument as I just used. In the motion-Ouwehand in part No. 166 the government is invited to make proposals to improve the balance between the legal position of the gas operator and the ability of the government to intervene in the interests of security, in favour of the responsibility of the government to safeguard the public interest. There is no imbalance. If necessary, I will intervene in the interests of safety. I'll reinforce it further in the proposed bill. I believe that, on the basis of the recommendations of the Security Research Council, it should be better laid down in the law. I will. With what I am going to do, sufficient safeguards have also been created in the new situation. I therefore reject Mrs Ouwehand's motion as it has now been formulated. I've dealt with the motions. There are still a few questions from the Chamber that I have to go into. Mr Öztürk asked if I would allow residents to receive money if the cost of repairing is higher than the cost of new construction, rather than new construction. On a number of occasions, I have formulated what I want to do in relation to the strengthening of housing and what needs to be further developed. The National Coordinator Groningen must also play an important role in this. I have also indicated that, unlike Mr Öztürk, I believe that people should not disappear from the area and that they should not live anywhere. I would also like to maintain this part of the Netherlands and do the things that are necessary to ensure that this is justified. In other words, what he is now formulating is a further development of what he has come up with before. I disagree. I do not want to do what Mr Öztürk has asked at the moment. Mrs Mulder asked me not to tear down the decision-making process prior to 1 July. I have already told Mrs Mulder that I will try to make it happen in consultation with the Chamber in such a way that the Chamber has the opportunity to debate it with me before the recess. Apparently, Mrs Mulder feels that this might lead to me doing it a little too quickly. I can reassure Mrs Mulder: I will not do it too quickly, but I will try to do justice to her reasonable request to speak about it before the recess. I will try to do it carefully and not to rattle it off, but in good time, to enable the Chamber to do its job. In the motion-Jan Vos/Van Tongeren in part no. 155 was asked me to do something for the summer recess. It is about strengthening the independence of SodM. I have already provided that motion with an opinion, but I must add that I cannot manage it before the summer recess. I therefore ask Mr Vos to see whether the motion can be formulated in such a way that I do so as soon as possible, at the latest immediately after the summer. I don't see it coming before the summer. If he gives me that space, I can leave the judgment on a motion which has been amended to that effect to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u221	I will give that space to the Minister and amend the motion as requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u222	The Minister has not yet answered my question about what exactly he intends to discuss in the Council of Ministers regarding the amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u223	I apologise to Mrs Klever through you, Madam President. I have had an intrusive discussion with the Chamber on this matter, and I have put forward all kinds of considerations and arguments that I think were relevant. I sent a letter to the Chamber about that last weekend. The Chamber decided today in the vote as it decided. I think it is desirable to share with the members of the Council of Ministers the whole situation, the debate, my input, the opinion of the Chamber, the vote on the amendments and my considerations. The Council of Ministers may then have an opinion on this. That is my intention to bring this issue to the Council of Ministers. This is in response to Mrs Klever's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u224	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u225	Mrs Klever, I said that in the second term Members could only ask a single question. That's what everyone's been doing, so it applies to you, too. I assume that the Minister will inform the Chamber on the occasion of the Council of Ministers, if there is any reason to do so. He nods yes, so he does. Then there will be a new opportunity to exchange views with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-30.u226	We shall vote on the motions for resolutions tabled next Thursday.
