ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister. I call Mrs Koşer Kaya. Speaking time is two minutes including motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. The provision of personal data by the State should be linked to a public task which should relate to the maintenance of a provision for citizens who are subject to public care. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the provision of personal data by the State to church societies and other societies on a spiritual basis is no longer sufficiently justified;]] [[Whereas the Council of State also reached such a conclusion in its opinion on the Basic Registration Decision;]] [[invites the Government, as soon as possible, but not later than two years, to terminate the provision of personal data to spiritual societies, whether or not via SILA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya, Mr De Caluwé and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25764-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Project Basic Registration Persons (BRP) now costs three times the budget and runs well out of time. In its opinion to the Minister, the ICT-Toetsing Office (BIT) indicated that the project could be brought to a successful conclusion, provided that the cabinet takes the advice of the BIT to heart. By letter to the Chamber, the Minister indicated that he would embrace the opinions of the BIT. However, an underlying official letter did not show this. I welcome the Minister's commitment during the AO to come forward with a letter in January in which he will give a concrete indication, per measure recommended, of whether he will implement it and, if so, how he will do it. One year after the publication of a highly critical ICT report, we cannot proceed to the order of the day. The VVD wants the minister to stay on top of this. We will continue to monitor very critically the content of the promised letter and the implementation of the measures. Finally, the SILA. It is no longer of this time that the government makes an exception for religious bodies to obtain data from the BRP. Last month, the Chamber wondered how the AK party got the addresses of Turkish Dutch people to send them a vote advice. Then we should not now agree that religious organisations that do not perform any government tasks actively receive personal data from the government. That is why we have co-signed the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u4	The Minister has indicated that he can reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to respond to Mrs De Caluwé's comment that she will read with great interest the letter I will send to the Chamber in January. It's on the record. I am aware of that. Then the government's opinion on the motion remains. I can count, and I have the impression that that motion was signed by a majority of the House. However, I am committed to giving the government's advice. Data from the Basic Registration Persons are shared with a number of institutions of significant social interest, such as pension funds and health insurance companies, according to the BRP Decision. This includes the SILA, which may include organisations with a philosophical basis. These are not only churches, but also, for example, the Salvation Army or the General Baptist Society. The Humanist Covenant or other organizations could also be associated with this. This leads to people being written on as a kind of service when moving and welcomed by the organisations they are members of. As has already been discussed in the debate, people can refrain from doing so if they do not appreciate it. I have already promised to discuss with SILA once again that people will be reminded at every contact that is made that they can refrain from doing so. I consider this to be a service that may receive millions of people and that does not affect others. The government does not intend to change that now. I'd advise against doing that anyway. This is, moreover, consistent with what I have previously exchanged in debates and in general discussions with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u6	Can the Minister give me one basic argument on the basis of which these organizations should receive this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u7	They are organisations of significant social importance and there are millions of people who experience it as a service that they receive a welcome message from their pension fund, their health insurance and, for example, from their church society. They can do whatever they want with that. I'm not a believer myself, but I'm not a state atheist either. This is a service to citizens of various beliefs. Again, if a Muslim organization or the Humanist Covenant wants to join, then so be it. I see no reason to stop this service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u8	Mrs Koşer Kaya, it's really just about filing motions for a VAO. You may clarify or exchange views on the motions tabled, but you are not going to discuss them in detail in general consultation. You may ask another question about your motion, but not again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u9	I understand. Then the same service should also be offered for associations. Then why isn't that done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u10	Because in the Netherlands "a significant social interest" for an angling association is judged slightly differently from, for example, a church.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u11	I do not want to reopen the discussion, but this advice from the cabinet is failing a huge group of people: the lbt'ers who have neatly indicated that they want nothing to do with the church, but then they get a message. It happens all the time. I want to break a lance for those people anyway. This is not a service to them, it's an insult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u13	I would like to respond to that, because people are voluntary members of a church society. If someone cancels that membership, from whatever motivation, this service expires. That doesn't just apply to lhbt'ers. There are also other people who have at some point been unsubscribe from a church society. I remember that, too. I understand that very well, but in my opinion this is not the case. Otherwise it will be a completely different matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-20.u15	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
