ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is committed to a high quality of life. Quality of care is very important for this. The GP plays a crucial role in achieving a high quality of life and a high quality of care. It's the doctor closest to you. It's the doctor you call first if there's something going on with you or your child and you're worried about your own health or your child's. At such a time it is essential that the general practitioner is available. The Consumers' Association published a study last week which shows that two out of three general practitioners respond to the telephone within the agreed two-minute standard. Greetings to the general practitioners who have arranged it well; that may also be said. Fortunately, they are in the majority. The bad news was nevertheless very worrying: one in three general practitioners does not record the phone on time and one in five practices do not give the patient any hearing at all. This means that millions of Dutch people can get in touch with their family doctor too late or at all. It is not the first time that it is shown that the accessibility of a large group of general practitioners is not in order. In 2008, the inspection investigation showed that the accessibility was below the standard and a repeat investigation in 2011 still showed that it was not okay. The Consumer Union's research shows some improvement, but 2008 has already been seven years ago. In the intervening years, supervisor IGZ has taken action to improve accessibility and insurers have provided in their contracts all kinds of additional resources to reward the accessibility of general practitioners. Does the Minister share the view of the VVD Group that good accessibility of general practitioners is not a luxury, but an essential prerequisite for the quality of general practitioner care? What does the Minister think of the findings of the Consumers' Association in view of all the efforts already made since 2008 to get the accessibility in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Good accessibility is crucial. I can be very clear about that right now. It is important, however, that we distinguish between "emergency" and "non-emergency." Emergency calls must be recorded within 30 seconds. More than three years ago, the inspection launched an enforcement process in this area. That's all right. All practices met the standard to record the emergency line within 30 seconds. Since then the inspection has maintained in this case if there is a signal. We are talking about calls that are not urgent. In these cases, too, it is of course important that people can get in touch with their general practitioner in good time. It is a little more complex, because the sector has never accepted the two-minute standard and always said: if you come to us on Monday morning, it is really a madhouse in practice and we can never meet the two-minute standard; that is an illusion. However, more than a year ago, a new directive on the accessibility and availability of general practitioners was introduced. That is an incredibly important improvement. General practitioner care must be available by telephone for at least six hours a day and a medical professional must address the patient. That is extremely important, but I agree with Mr Rutte that there is still something to be done. I'll talk to the LHV about that. The first is the question of what is a realistic standard for recording the telephone in cases where there is no urgency. Of course, you can develop all kinds of systems, which I think is a very good example from the Consumer Union section, which automatically gives patients a message that they are being called back. Those systems are already there. If a patient makes a call that doesn't involve an emergency and he gets a message that says "we're not reachable by phone, but you'll be called back at 8.50," you've introduced a system that gives someone certainty, because that person will know that he'll speak to the doctor at that time. Such systems are incredibly important. You can also indicate when it's less crowded. There are also systems that allow you to get in touch online. I'd love to talk to the LHV about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	It is right for the Minister to distinguish between "urgent" and "non-urgent" but when we see now that two-thirds of general practitioners are able to respond within two minutes when a patient contacts, it is strange that the LHV still says that the two-minute standard is not feasible because it is a madhouse in general practitioners' practice? If two thirds can do it, should it be possible to raise those two minutes to standard for non-emergency care? Does the Minister also wish to do so? In recent years, the IGZ has undertaken activities to ensure at least that the accessibility of the general practitioners was arranged for the urgent part. Is there perhaps another task for the IGZ with regard to the non-emergency part? Can it act a little more firmly on this point so that this can be done in the knowledge that insurers already pay this extra? So we've already tried to tackle this at the root.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	The new directive, introduced last year, has taken a very important step. That is also very important for inspection, because if there is a directive, it can actually enforce it. The norm must be realistic. Whether it's two or three minutes, I think you can come a long way with some systems. I would very much like to discuss this with the LHV and I would like to include the inspection because I think there are some possibilities. When it comes to peak hours, which occur mostly on Monday morning, you can say to people "dude, if you don't have to, don't call Monday morning." You can use a tape to say "you can also make an appointment online." A tape can be used to say "I'll call you and then I'll call you back." People would be thrilled if there were such systems. If you have something on your finger or knee or anything else that's not urgent, so can you. I can therefore promise the Chamber that I will inform her of the results when I have had that conversation with those parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is very good to hear that the Minister wants to talk to the LHV and that she really wants to make work on improving the accessibility of the general practitioners. Let us be clear: the accessibility of general practitioners is not a luxury; it is an essential part of the quality of the doctor, not only when it comes to urgency, but also when it comes to the concern of the general practitioner. Perhaps the Minister could stress once again that, even in the event of a lack of difficulty, the accessibility of the general practitioner is not a luxury but a crucial one. For the rest, I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to keep the Lower House informed of the progress of the talks with the LHV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is crucial that a general practitioner's practice is available. I also very much appreciate the fact that the Consumers' Association is carrying out such a study, because that keeps us all sharp; it also keeps the general practitioners sharp, who themselves have indicated that this is also important. I think that spreading best practices on how one particular practice has solved it can greatly help bring that solution closer in another practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	We see here a nice one-two between a VVD member and a VVD minister, but I do agree with the VVD that the accessibility of general practitioners is not a luxury. So that it gets right and needs to be even better, I certainly support the Minister in that. But you know what else isn't luxury? Good care in old age. Now it is the general practitioners who have sounded the alarm yesterday because older people are malnourished and united at home because there is no household care and no daily spending anymore. I would like to get the Minister's response to that examination of general practitioners. How does she feel about older people being malnourished and lonely at home because this cabinet reduces household care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'm not aware of any one-two. I am being called to the Chamber by the Chamber to answer a question and I am trying to do so in the best possible way. To answer your question in the best possible way: the changes we make in household care and in community care are intended to make them better. This means that sometimes it is not possible to provide care where it used to be, but where that care is more needed, we can use it more. It's gonna take customization. This customization can be done better on a local level than before. The study makes little distinction between the first three months of this year and the period before that. The research also indicates that this has been going on for a long time. I think we should use these transfers to make improvements rather than make things less good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you for this answer to the question that actually belongs to the debate scheduled for 7 p.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	That wasn't a one-two; we didn't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	I thank the Minister for her answers and for her coming to the Chamber.
