ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. What inspired the Secretary of State to press the accelerator like a madman, while the expression "a warned person counts for two" should apply? That's what today's about. It's about the payout of the personal budgets and the misery at the Social Insurance Bank. Because of a financial mess, some 130,000 budget holders and at least 240,000 health care providers have lost sight of clarity. It's a giant-sized operation that's going very, very badly wrong. Why did this warned Secretary of State let it go so wrong? There have been four debates. There are no solutions. The emergency scenarios aren't working. People in distress would be paid out quickly, but that does not happen if the wrong people are paid out. Too much or too little money is being paid out. There are a lot of people who haven't had a salary in four months. It is now clear that everything has to be solved manually. Everything has to be introduced. It is about the data of 130,000 budget holders and 240,000 caregivers; a huge job. The Secretary of State was warned. Last summer he was warned by the municipalities. The ICT systems are not good, they said. The General Court has warned twice in the last year. It's gonna take more direction, said this one. This weekend it turned out that there was also an internal emergency call; in October, two months before the introduction. Multiple deadlines were not met. Why hasn't the introduction been postponed? What possessed this secretary to keep pushing the accelerator like a madman? Today it got worse. Last summer, the Secretary of State was warned not only publicly by the municipalities, but also by the Social Insurance Bank itself. The SVB asked the Ministry of Social Affairs to keep tight control of the reins, because this Secretary of State and his ministry did not. The question is still: why did the Secretary of State knowingly run the risk of this chaos? How many more times has he been warned? What are the costs of this operation so far? As far as we are concerned, it is time for openness. Empty the cesspool, because the lid's gone anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me stress once again that I deeply regret the problems experienced by people with a pgb. We are working very hard to solve these problems. We've agreed that I'll keep an eye on the balance sheet. We have also agreed that several reports will be sent to the Chamber. We'll stick to that. A number of questions have been asked about the reports that have appeared in the media. It's two messages. In one report, the question was whether the Secretary of State had previously been warned and what he had done with it. In the second report it was about the SVB's letter asking Social Affairs to update. Let me peel this off. Has the Secretary of State been warned? Of course. In fact, we organized those warnings ourselves. Since July 2014, monthly progress reports have been made, which monitor the state of play in ICT, organisation and healthcare agreements, the risks involved and the measures taken. In the AD, the progress report of October was discussed. It stated that the feasibility of the right to draw was not at stake as of 1 January, but that a number of cases were lagging behind on schedule. That led me to design a number of relapse scenarios. I informed the Chamber in November, following the questions put by Mrs Bruins Slot, and in December, following the progress of the motions and commitments which, as usual, had gone to the Chamber. There are therefore no warnings that have not been acted on. That progress report comes every month. They act on it when they need to. This has also happened in this case. I've already informed the Chamber about that. Then I come to the question of whether there is a letter from the Social Insurance Bank in which the alarm clock is sounded. In the meantime, I understand that we have been asked by the Registry to receive this letter. I'll make sure of that. Perhaps Mrs Leijten, when she has read the letter, will be able to draw the conclusion with me that the interpretation of the General Journal of the content of that letter is at least curious. Let us put an end to all the discussion by giving that letter to the Chamber. Then she can read it and read it with her own eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	We do not have that letter now, so I find it difficult to answer that. We did not know that the Secretary of State had been warned on several occasions until February. The public warnings he had received, both from the Court of Auditors and the municipalities, he dismissed as: a bit of noise, everything under control. If in October, two months before the introduction, it is said in the Ministry itself 'we do not get 1-1', then the question is justified as to why there has been no delay. That's a question ahead of us. Why did this Secretary of State keep pushing the accelerator like crazy? This is an enormous number of people, it is about people's income. No salary for four months. Stand on it! I find it so tragic that we do not get that answer. Was it political prestige? Was the Secretary of State busy with all his other reforms or demolition plans of the care? Or did he just not want to believe it was so risky? There's a lot of people in trouble. We would like a solution. Tomorrow we can ensure that those who have not been paid for so long will receive money from their budget holder. Is the Secretary of State prepared to re-direct the budget of those budget holders who continue to experience major problems with the Social Insurance Bank so that they can pay out their healthcare providers? I hope for a yes, because this chaos has provided for the Secretary of State and not prevented it, but he does now have a solution in his own hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	We have made the agreement that the progress reports for the research will be made available. I'll see if they want them sooner. Mrs Leijten will see in the progress reports that it does not appear that 1-1 would not be feasible. However, there were all kinds of projects that sometimes got a green smiley face and sometimes a red face. That's what they've been acting on. I have informed the Chamber that a number of relapse scenarios have entered into force as a result. In case care agreements had not been approved, payment could nevertheless be made. I've informed the Chamber about that before. Why wasn't the surgery postponed? Should we have said somewhere last year that, for example, the health offices for the municipalities and the health insurance companies, because the responsibilities in the care are divided differently, had to carry out the pgbs? Should we have had 43 care offices for 343 municipalities run the pgbs? Would that have been in the interests of the budget holders? Should we have said to the municipalities: go ahead with a new instrument to pay out the pgbs, in addition to everything that had to be done? I do not think that would have been in the interests of the budget holders either. Yeah, there's trouble. On signals is acted as well as possible. Are you okay? No. We have discussed this in detail. That is what we will continue to do with each other. We'll keep working hard to get through it. But let us not confuse two things. It's not like there were signals that weren't acted on. Nor is it true that there were letters from the Social Insurance Bank that expressed great concern and advised to do it in a different way. Once again, I will send the letter to the Chamber by means of a letter. Then the Chamber can read the letter and possibly reach the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Secretary of State has promised us that budget holders would not notice anything or hardly anything about the changes in the payout. We are seeing a chaos that we are debating for the fifth time. This Secretary of State looks away from his own responsibility. I think there is a great deal of the problem there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	I can refer to Mrs Leijten's last point on responsibilities. The image that emerges from the AD article is one of a Social Insurance Bank and a Ministry of VWS that have different views. What exactly is the situation with regard to the division of responsibilities between SVB and VWS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	I hope you will be able to read from the letter that there is no difference of opinion between the SVB and the ministry of VWS at all. But I say again that this is my interpretation. That is why I find the explanation of the daily newspaper rather strange. However, Members can read that for themselves. Furthermore, on the basis of the progress reports made from June 2014, all actions are listed and risks identified. That's what we ask for every month. On this basis, measures are taken to mitigate those risks. So I don't see that contradiction. However, this does not mean that everything is going well. We have been talking about this for several months. It is also clear that VWS is responsible for steering the drawing right and the agreements with the Social Insurance Bank. The owner, Social Affairs, will monitor with us whether this task at the Social Insurance Bank does not occur in the conduct, given the other tasks of the SVB in the area of the AOW and child benefit. That is why we have agreed with the Social Insurance Bank to regularly sit down with Social Affairs. This is why a consultation has been established between the clients, the contractors and the owners. That's exactly what it's about keeping an eye on things like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	I honestly don't get it. Do I hear the Secretary of State say that the coverage in the General Daily is incorrect and incorrect? We don't have the letter, so I can't check. So, according to the Secretary of State, was there any reason to slow down the whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'll mention two things. Firstly, the progress reports per month monitor the state of play and the risks involved. Those October reports, and for that reason, have, among other things, led us to choose to draw up a number of relapse scenarios, despite the fact that the reports showed that 1 January was feasible. We wanted those relapse scenarios because, for example, we did not want to run the risk that budget holders would not be paid if care agreements had not yet been approved by the municipalities. The position of the budget holder was the most important to me. If municipalities had not yet approved, you could say that there has not been approved, so we cannot pay out. However, I did not think that was acceptable and I wanted it to be paid. That is why we have agreed to this. Secondly, in the AD the question is asked whether there has been a very strong call to involve the Ministry of Social Affairs because otherwise things would not go well. I find that really a curious explanation. I can imagine Mr Krol saying: I cannot judge that, because I do not know that letter. I'll send that letter to the Chamber by the end of the day. That way the Chamber can judge it itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	The Secretary of State said that there were discussions last year about which reports or progress reports were made. He also said that bottlenecks have been addressed in these discussions and that all these bottlenecks have also been addressed. However, we are seeing incredibly many problems in implementation right now. Has there not been a time when people have said that we have acted sufficiently, or have we not acted sufficiently, on the problems we are experiencing? Or has there been a time when people have said that perhaps there should be a little bit more to do? I do not understand why, on the one hand, the Secretary of State notes that there have been problems that have been resolved, but, on the other hand, we have to conclude that all these budget holders are now in very serious difficulties. So I do not see the solutions mentioned by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	I was just beginning to say that I am the first to admit that there were problems with the payment of the pgbs and that some of those problems are still there. We're getting through that. Of course, it is not good that these problems have arisen. However, there were two other theories. The first was the question of whether there were signals that weren't acted on. I have already said that progress reports have been requested since July. That's where signals come in. Some things are lagging behind and need to be adjusted. We tried to do that as best we could. I note with Mrs Dik that this has not resulted in the problems being avoided and that some of the problems that have arisen have not yet been resolved. That is why we are working incredibly hard with each other right now to solve the remaining problems as well as possible. For this we agreed on a number of measures, which I shared with the Chamber. I also agreed with the Chamber that I should report on this and that we should take stock of the situation by 15 May. This has been done on the basis of Mrs Dijkstra's motion. So that process is going on. I have tried to say that we are doing so, but there have been two other points in the media. Are there any signals that haven't been acted on? My reaction to this is: why else would we have invented these relapse options with each other? They're focused on acting on signals, aren't they? The second point that has been raised is whether the Social Insurance Bank and the Ministry are competing on how it should all be implemented. That would be evident from a letter. I will make sure that the Chamber receives that letter so that it can also assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	The Secretary of State explains how he points the case. He says there's been an act on what happened. In my view, the question arises as to whether he has interpreted and assessed matters sufficiently and whether everything has been shared with the Chamber since the Social Insurance Bank was involved in the pgb. Or are there any other things that we can possibly expect from the media?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	I cannot predict what we can expect from the media. I'd like to join the Chamber to see if I can. I don't know. All I can do is report what we've done. We have implemented the right of draw as well as possible and we get progress reports every month. I have noted that we had to pay attention to whether this would not cause problems. Mrs Dijkstra wonders whether there has been a sufficiently heavy act: we have made the decision to pay even if there is no check, because we want to keep the payment rhythms as much as possible. That's a pretty heavy procedure and it's hard to say there's no acting. That's what we're doing right now. Things are not going well, and we have already had a debate on this. I will report on that further. We follow it closely on the basis of the progress reports. There has been an act where it was necessary, sometimes with a very heavy procedure and with a lack of controls. That's what we're doing right now. We have to go through that process with each other. I promised the Chamber that I would do my utmost to do so and to do so with all my strength. We will have to see the results of this, in accordance with the agreements we have made with the Chamber to report on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	I do not think we have had the data from that evaluation from which the General Daily of last Saturday quotes. It says that the "go" signal was given too late to get everything on track. It even says that the simplest variant is not feasible. How could the decision be taken to introduce it at all costs by 1 January 2015? I don't understand. I would like the evaluation to be sent to the Chamber by hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	I understand that the Chamber is still discussing the information it wishes to have further in the arrangements for its work. I note that we discussed this earlier and agreed at that time that I would make that information available for the evaluation study that is still to be carried out. If the Chamber feels otherwise, I'll be told. I have nothing to hide. The progress reports are there and we have acted on them. If the Chamber is interested, it will undoubtedly ask and receive them. There's nothing wrong with it. We have only made another appointment by means of a motion, namely to make those reports available for the evaluation study so that it can be discussed in the Chamber. I'll find out if the Chamber feels otherwise. A decision will have to be taken. There are many points in the progress reports, for example the services provided by the Social Insurance Bank to the health offices. This month, the Social Insurance Bank must have a decision by the health care offices on a very small part, namely the provision of services to the health care offices in relation to health insurance pgbs. For example, there are dozens of subjects that are sometimes and sometimes not going well, which are reported on, on which actions are needed and which we follow every month.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	The chaos is complete with the people involved, namely the budget holders and their caregivers. We have rightly spoken about this several times in this Chamber. I'd like to know if this could have been avoided. I am pleased that the Secretary of State now promises that the letter will be sent to the Chamber referred to today in the General Journal. However, that is not the only thing; it is also the progress note that was discussed last Saturday and all the other pieces, which I have been asking for since 3 March. I have put questions in writing and the deadline for replying to them will end tomorrow. Does the Secretary of State now intend to send these to the Chamber on a round-the-clock basis? If not, will he tell us why it is contrary to the interests of the State not to send those documents to the Chamber? That does not require a majority, because that is simply the right of a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	However, I would like to say that we have spoken about this in the Chamber. We also talked about how to find out how it happened. There had to be all kinds of information about this. I have told the Chamber that this can be done, but perhaps it is also good to make all the documents available in their entirety in the evaluation so that the Chamber can judge them in their entirety. That is what we have agreed on, and so far I have kept to it. I also pointed out to the Chamber that I must abide by the agreements made with regard to reports with people who could not know that those reports would be made public. That is the landline that applies not only to this dossier, but to all the files in traffic between the Cabinet and the Chamber. I have nothing to hide. As far as I am concerned, there is maximum transparency. We made an agreement with the Chamber on how we would do that. I want to stick to that. If Mrs Keijzer feels otherwise, she should discuss it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mrs Keijzer, for a procedural remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have a point of order. You are President and you must ensure that the government abides by the Constitution. The Secretary of State himself is now saying that he is maximum transparency. I also believe that it is the year of transparency. So those pieces can be transferred to the Chamber. I appeal to you, otherwise I stand here every day for the organisation of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	I believe that this question can be answered very briefly by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	Let me repeat: we have agreed on a point of order. We agreed to make that information available to those who are going to evaluate it. That's why we made that deal. Another motion has been tabled on this subject, which I believe has been rejected. So I'm sticking to the deal that's been made with the Chamber. I want to give that maximum transparency. If the Chamber wants to make a different agreement on this, I will hear it, but I would like to keep to the agreements I have made with the Chamber on this matter so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	I shall now also make a point of order, because what the Secretary of State reports here is simply wrong. The Secretary of State refused to disclose those documents. It has been tried to enforce that by means of the Leijten motion, which did not achieve a majority. I suspect that the Secretary of State has agreed with the coalition just as well that another request will not receive any support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	The agenda also includes a request from Mrs Keijzer to hold a debate. I think that is also the place where such views can be exchanged. I thank the Secretary of State for coming and answering.
