ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and, of course, the Members of Parliament who are about to speak. Eight members have signed up for this bill. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Article 23a of our Constitution states: The safety of minors is the subject of the continuing concern of the government. The holding of a youth residence is free, subject to the supervision of the government and the examination of the competence and morality of the holders. Mr President, you look somewhat surprised and perhaps you feel that something has gone by and that you have missed the introduction of a new constitutional article. That's not true, because this is a fictional article. But it would be a nice follow-up to the famous article on education, Article 23. An interesting question to the government is why there is no such article. What does that tell us? Why should the government explicitly provide for living, working and prosperity, but not for receiving and raising? Why is that not laid down in the Constitution? The SGP draws two conclusions from this. First of all, the freedom of education at the time was too obvious to the parents to say words about it. Secondly, the government must be even more cautious outside the sphere of education than in education. Article 23 has two main cornerstones which are also of great importance for this legislative proposal. The SGP reviews the proposal on these two points. The priority is the freedom and responsibility of parents to shape their education according to their own understanding and beliefs. That freedom must be respected by the government. Authority and responsibility lie with the parents, but then that's the second point, too, that the safety and welfare of children should not be compromised. When children are entrusted to the responsibility of others, borders and agreements are needed. The SGP supports the idea of creating a law for youth residences, but still has a number of concerns regarding the drafting of this bill. The requirements seem to go a little further than is actually necessary in several respects. I would like to draw attention to three problems concerning the scope of the proposal and two bumps in implementation. The first problem is that there is too soon a youth residence. The government chooses two principles: at least four children are taken care of and they stay outside the family for more than half a week. The SGP calls on the government to respond to the following situation. What if parents temporarily entrust their four children to good friends for half the week, for whatever reason? Is the home of these friends suddenly a youth residence, with a mandatory trust, a quality plan and so on? The SGP believes that we should avoid such border cases, precisely in order to ensure that the legal basis is as broad as possible. That is why I would like to ask for a response to my amendment to item No. 8, setting the number of minors at ten. The second problem is the great responsibility of the holder of a youth residence. With the proposal, the government wants to guarantee the safety of children. That is an excellent starting point. For this purpose, it wishes to be in line with the criterion for the under-supervision of children. The SGP thinks that's a good idea. However, the proposal goes beyond that and therefore does not seem proportionate. The responsibility of the holder of a youth residence becomes much heavier than that of the parents. Holders should not only avoid serious threats to the development of children, they should also enable the undisturbed development of children. That is an impossible task. Which one of us, which man has had an undisturbed development? Then the question arises immediately as to what exactly is meant by this. The SGP considers this criterion too vague and therefore unusable. With the amendment in part No. I would like to add 10 to the criterion of undersupervision. I'd like to hear the government's reaction to this. The third problem is the implementation of the quality framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	I read the SGP Group's amendment this morning. This explicitly links the home situation. I have doubts about this amendment, even if I follow the government's reasoning. Is it right to make a comparison with the home situation here? Whether education, childcare, host parents or boatmasters' quarters, in many places where children stay and are cared for outside the family situation, the government sets minimum standards of quality and safety. Is the comparison no longer appropriate? Why wouldn't we do this here? The cabinet writes that the lack of a financial relationship with the government is insufficient reason not to do so here. How does Mr Bishop view this, given his amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	We have struggled with this point. The key question is how to get proportional supervision. This is a free choice of parents. They place their children; the children are not forced to be placed. The aim of this amendment is to place more emphasis on the responsibility of parents rather than on the holder of a youth residence. Terminology also raises questions. How can you guarantee undisturbed development? This is precisely the struggle that ultimately led to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	That struggle is clearly set out in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment. However, I still have a question for clarification. As far as I can remember, the SGP has not tabled such amendments when dealing with quality frameworks for childcare and host care where parents also have a free choice or want to use care and, if so, of what kind. Why didn't the SGP take this step and do it here? Is the reason why there is no financial relationship with the government here, or is there another reason to consider this differently from the other places where children reside outside the family situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have to admit, honestly, that I have not checked the treatment of the conditions for daycare. That treatment took place some time ago. The fact that the financial relationship has played a role here is a fact. However, I am prepared to discuss this matter in greater depth so that we can bring about an adjustment which strengthens the policy envisaged. That is what we are talking about. This is not a destructive amendment, but a constructive one. That is how Mr Heerma knows the SGP. I asked for attention to be given to the third problem we face: the implementation of the quality framework. The government can lay down detailed rules on quality rules, but how far can these rules go? I would like to mention, for example, the rules on the mission and the vision of a youth residence. Can the government confirm that only the themes need to be described and that it is not about the content itself? The SGP assumes that the holder himself can determine his mission and vision. Of course, he will have to understand that with the parents. The preliminary quality framework does not reassure in this respect. There are all kinds of obligations that, if the government really wants to introduce them, belong in the law. Think of promoting citizenship forms, developing social activities through the institution and the development of the Dutch language. Can we trust that these points will not be included in further rules, as the government repeatedly states that the proposal does not have an integration objective? If the government does want to regulate this, why do such fundamental standards not come into the formal law? In the SGP's view, the practical implementation and enforcement of the proposal could be even more targeted. For example, the bill obliges the supervisor to visit all youth accommodations every year. The SGP thinks that is a little too much of the good. This certainly applies to youth accommodations that function well and on which a municipality does not have to worry. This obligation also infringes municipal policy freedom to provide customised services. The SGP believes that visiting youth residences on the basis of risk assessment and analysis is much more efficient. That's how other inspections work. I would like to hear a response to the amendment to item No. 9, with which I want to take responsibility for the plans to visit, lay down where it belongs, namely with the municipal government. Furthermore, an explanation of behaviour should not be older than three months. The SGP wonders whether this is necessary and feasible. I know that it is also requested on other points, but I would nevertheless like a reflection from the Minister on how this obligation for youth accommodation relates to the scheme for other forms of care. The SGP notes that the proposal has arisen as a result of a specific problem. That wasn't a problem with the skipper's interns. For many years now, they have been prepared to answer for quality, to offer all transparency about policies and so on. They work well with the government and have actually been a model in the development of this proposal. I urge the government to be alert to the fact that this proposal does not impose unnecessary burdens on these boarding schools. How is the government going to reward the trust of these boarding schools, which they have earned, in concrete terms, for example in the area of supervision? The amendment in part No. 9 offers an excellent opportunity for this, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	I fully agree with Mr Bishop when he says that this should not lead to red tape. He's also making a comparison with the skipper's interns. Students who are on boatmasters' internships receive €20,000 subsidy per person. Is Mr Bishop prepared to support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	Do you mean a proposal for skipper interns? They are already getting that grant and I am indeed in favour of these people getting that grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'm referring to another point. My question is whether visitors to youth centres, or children staying in youth centres, can also receive such compensation, so that all administrative requirements and administrative burdens arising from this bill can be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	To be specific, are you referring to mosque internates? Do you mean that parents who choose to let their child go to a mosque internate should receive a subsidy of €20,000 on an annual basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	We are talking in the context of this bill on youth residences. In the imagery it has been suggested that these are mosque internates, but we are also talking about expatriates in the discussion of this bill, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	If the parents choose to do this in part outside the family situation, although they can also raise their children at home, then I see no reason why the government should make a financial contribution. That seems to me to be the parents' choice. They keep that freedom of choice, but asking if the government can immediately provide the financial resources, seems to me to be a bit too much of a good thing. If the circumstances are such that parents are unable to do so, then the situation will be different. This proposal stems from the problems with mosque interiors. Let's just say that in concrete terms. Let the government keep an eye on it. Unequal monks get unequal hoods. We know this from experiences with a number of situations, including in Rotterdam, which sometimes literally keep the government as far away as possible. Enforcement was lacking where it was often necessary. Such practices should, above all, be blocked by this legislative proposal. There is no need for a constitutional change to shape this policy, but great care is needed. There are fundamental values at stake: on the one hand, the responsibility of parents for the education of their children and, on the other hand, the responsibility of the public authorities to ensure the welfare and well-being of these children as much as possible. Further reflection on this would be recommended. Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. I see I've stayed good in time. You've got to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	I am very grateful to you for that. I give the floor to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal aims to increase the accountability and transparency of boarding schools for the undisturbed development and safety of children in those places. I was just talking to Mr Bishop about his amendment. The legislative proposal contains a reporting obligation, the obligation to establish a quality framework, the obligation to appoint an independent confidential person and a Vog obligation for holders and data subjects who come into contact with minors. The municipality is given the role of supervisor within this law and is able to maintain it when this is justified. The requirements of this law are largely based on the rules that already apply to boatmasters' internates. When it comes to the position of young children, we see that, in a broad sense, the government lays down rules for supervision and safety in places where children stay outside the home, are taken care of and cared for, whether they are education, childcare, extracurricular care, host parents or so-called skippers' interns. Those rules are there and that supervision is there. On this role for the physical and social security of children, the government raises in the note following the report the question of whether it should only be restricted to places where the government also has a financial role. In my group's view, the government rightly states that the absence of a financing relationship is not sufficient reason not to provide minimum guarantees for safety, undisturbed development and a healthy educational environment. Municipal directors, including CDA alderman Hugo de Jonge from Rotterdam, also explicitly indicate that this law provides a desired addition to the voluntary supervision that has already been established. The law gives a stick behind the door that gives a title to maintain if it proves necessary. This legislative proposal is a relatively limited group, as the note on the report shows. These are 740 children in Turkish-Dutch youth residences, as mentioned in the bill. These are 22 children in a Moroccan-Dutch youth center and 45 children in an expatriate and at an international school. Last Monday I was in Hilversum for a radio broadcast and there I met colleague Potters, who had a discussion with a council member of Leefbaar Rotterdam. During the discussion with Mr Potters, this council member indicated that there would be many more boarding schools underground, out of sight, and that the numbers are, in reality, much larger than the bill says. However, the Minister states in his reply that he considers this to be highly unlikely. I am inclined to find his reasoning plausible in the first instance. It is not easy to shape this underground and out of sight, without it being visible in the surroundings and in the schools. However, since this city council member from Rotterdam makes this so explicit, I would like to have a more detailed explanation from the Minister. The suggestion was rather concretely raised that it would be a lot more. It would be very unlikely if it weren't. That is why I would like to receive a response to this claim from the Rotterdam council member, who has also been made in the context of the reporting obligation laid down in the law. There has been a lot of discussion since the end of 2012, especially about mosque interiors. In that discussion, both the PvdA Group and this minister were quite concerned with expressing concerns about the boarding schools. There were concerns about social security, but there were also concerns about the emergence of a parallel society. I now read in the note on the report that the Minister explicitly states that there is no parallel society. He cannot, on specific questions, give an example of things that are not good about social security. I believe that this is a very different tone from the one adopted by the Minister in the run-up to this legislative proposal and in the general consultation that led to the Azmani/Yücel motion. I'm curious what's causing that. Why does the tone of the Minister seem so different in the note following the report, following his earlier statements on the risk of parallel societies and the risks associated with social security? And is it really true that there is no such thing as an example of things that are not good about social security? This morning, in an article in Trouw, the brache organization of the mosque internationaten, ECN, explicitly indicated that they contribute to citizenship. In fact, these boarding schools could contribute to countering radicalisation. The latter is particularly interesting to me. Yesterday, following an investigation by the Verwey-Jonker Institute, the Minister said that there is a great deal of concern and discussion about views and ideas of Muslim young people. Previously, there was also the discussion about the Motivation research that has been going on for a long time. With the claim to be able to contribute to counter radicalisation, this industry organisation is now explicitly involved in that discussion. I wonder if the Minister can support what is claimed in the article. I want to close with that other claim, about citizenship. It was also explicitly stated that the mosque interiors contribute to the formation of citizenship. In education, a contribution to social inclusion and active citizenship has been included in the key objectives and quality requirements since 2006. They're being reviewed by the inspection. In the note following the report, the Minister makes a distinction: citizenship is in voluntary supervision and integration can be part of it. Article 3 of the legislative proposal does not include elements of the quality framework for citizenship and social inclusion. That's what happens in education. I would like a more detailed explanation from the Minister. Why is this choice made and why is it made? Why should integration be a part of citizenship? Should there not be a little more attention to citizenship and integration in Article 3 of this bill following education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. For years, stories have been emerging about mosque internationates and Koran schools, where children live under unsafe conditions without any supervision. There are stories about children living in boarding schools from 12 to 18 and actually going out alone and getting in touch with others when they go to school. Children 12 years old who have to get up at 3:00 a.m. to listen to a sermon and cramped attic full of bunk beds. Internals that are not controllable in which the total religious surrender and formation is central with a monoethnic composition and with the smell of oppressive discipline and group pressure. It is not for nothing that it is agreed that these boarding schools are primarily aimed at one's own community. It is these stories and concerns about the development of our children growing up within the walls of boarding schools that have led to measures. A wish from a large part of this room. This law on youth residences is an answer to that. We are pleased that this Minister has dared to come up with this legal framework. It's a step in the right direction, but we're not there yet. The motion by Mr Azmani and Mr Yücel, which also led to this bill, instructed the Minister to ensure a quality framework that is legally enforceable in the long term and leads to the transparency of mosque interiors. In addition, the motion also refers to a responsible educational environment that prevents children from being cut off from society. As far as the SP is concerned, the legislative proposal falls short on these specific points. I'll get back to you in a minute. Then the whole discussion about the segregation, the parallel society, the isolation and the monoethnic character of this type stays. The Minister is actually running a little away from that in the bill. And Mr Heerma also referred to it: that is striking. The Minister writes that he expects that the quality framework, which is still unclear what it will contain legally, will automatically lead to a dialogue on integration and that integration aspects can also form part of the quality framework. What does the Minister base this on? Have any agreements been made on this? Does the Minister recognise that these boarding schools can also lead to children being given away from living together? Does the Minister recognise that this is by definition a matter of segregation? In the meantime, after so many years of working on this subject and having found new allies, can the Minister address the organizations behind the boarding schools, their ideas, their mission and the practice of the mosque interiors and perhaps also of the Qur'an education in the Netherlands? The overview of the pieces shows that there are about 700 children staying in a mosque-internate in the Netherlands, as far as we know. Can the Minister tell if he has any signals that there are indeed several boarding schools and/or stays? If not, what's he basing this on? Does the Minister think that this picture is complete or almost complete? These are the 700 children who live in mosque interiors with a Turkish-Islamic-Orthodox background. In addition, there are more than 60 children in other boarding schools. Is it true that other religions do not have boarding schools in the Netherlands where children stay for most of the day? The bill speaks of youth residences, which is confusing in this context. Why doesn't the Minister just talk about mosque interiors and other youth homes, because the "other" is such a minimal part of what this law relates to? It is also clearer, especially since the Minister expects that there will not be many institutions in the coming years. Then about the way in which the Minister wants to achieve some supervision and control, insight and transparency and to ensure a safe living environment. The minister says boarding schools should check in. So they get a duty to report. The government believes that municipalities, I quote, do not have to actively look for youth accommodation, but he does urge them to be alert. Also, it does not prescribe how institutions should report and how municipalities register a notification, if a youth residence only reports. When applying for an environmental permit stating that this is for a mosque interior, is in principle sufficient. Why didn't the Minister choose a standard procedure? Why is this being handled somewhat cramped? It is as if every appearance of rules and duties in the legislative proposal should be avoided. Is this image accurate? What happens if a casual report isn't picked up by a municipal official who knows rules and permits but doesn't know mosque internates? What happens if a notification is accepted and people call the municipality after a year to ask what's going on? For these reasons, I have tabled an amendment, an amendment to the legislative proposal, to ensure that we actually introduce a licensing obligation. It prevents boarding schools from operating without consequences outside the municipality's sight. It also provides a clear way of reporting and maintaining. Why would you have to apply for a permit for a barn in your backyard, but not for a boarding school where 60 children stay day and night? The second point for which we have an alternative proposal in the form of an amendment is the quality framework. The proposed design is unclear and non-binding. The core was the need for transparency, for it to contribute to the creation of a clearly pedagogically safe environment, so that children can develop individually and freely. Why is it possible that a framework will be drawn up and established at a later date? To what extent will this differ from the voluntary frameworks used so far? The SP Group's proposal is: take over the existing quality framework of skippers' internships. This quality system is a comprehensive version of the framework which the Minister wants to apply, as he has said so far. It is also in line with that voluntary framework. The use of this comprehensive framework would put an end to the ambiguity, ensure clear requirements and a clear way of testing. A further advantage is that it also responds to the request of municipalities for uniform quality standards, which can be maintained. In the case of shipmasters' internates, the Youth Ministry is responsible for monitoring their quality. In the amendment we propose that this should also apply to mosque interiors and other youth centres. I have one more point about the explanation of the behavior. The legislative proposal stipulates that all structural persons involved in the youth residence must have statements of behaviour. What's this supposed to mean? Is someone who is present once every two weeks at night structurally involved in the youth residence? How should municipalities deal with a boarding school in which, for example, 2 volunteers from a group of 120 men work night shifts once every two months? Do these volunteers have to make a statement about the behavior? How can a municipality maintain in such situations? The SP Group believes that anyone involved or employed in a youth internationate or mosque internationate should have an explanation of behaviour. We have also prepared an amendment on this point. I indicated at the beginning of my speech that the legislative proposal we are discussing is a step in the right direction. It is to be commended that the Minister has taken the first step towards drawing up laws and regulations for this purpose. I think we should take care of this right now. Is it unreasonable to agree to apply for a permit if you run a boarding school where 60 children stay day and night? Is it unreasonable to ask such a boarding school and the people involved to meet the same quality requirements as other boarding schools in the interests of children's development? Is it unreasonable to ask anyone who works in such a boarding school to explain the behavior? Is it unreasonable to ask what is actually the spiritual nourishment these children receive? I don't think so; I'm sure you don't. This is also about our children, who have the right to grow up in a safe environment in the middle of society. You can, no, you even have to make a few demands on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. The Minister considers that the existence of Turkish-Dutch Islamic boarding schools and the residence of children in these boarding schools are not in themselves a problem. He also said he had no evidence that this threatened the safety, undisturbed development and integration of children. The Minister is concerned, if I understand correctly, only about the lack of formal supervision. This law only establishes the supervision that already applies to, for example, boatmasters' internationaties. The PVV strongly supports the fact that this is aligned with other forms of private care, but warns against addressing the specific problem of the Turkish-Dutch institutions. The appeal policy of this government will not allow formal supervision to prevent young people from being exposed to further Islamisation and "Turkification" within these boarding schools. The PVV wants to put a stop to these two issues, which promote the disintegration of Dutch society. The Netherlands needs to focus on de-Islamicisation. However, this contradicts what Minister Asscher and his Turkish allies are trying to achieve. This axis Ankara-Asscher focuses on more Islamic and Turkish influence in the Netherlands, as we have noticed in recent weeks. The PVV therefore finds the existence of Turkish-Dutch boarding schools in the Netherlands a problem. Given the anti-democratic and anti-legal developments in Erdogan Turkey and the enormous influence that the Turkish government has on foreign nationals, it is not desirable for Turkish children in the Netherlands to be kept out of Dutch society, in whole or in part, by means of such closed Turkish-Islamic boarding schools. Erdogan calls himself a servant of the Sharia. He sees democracy only as a means and not as an end and shows in all that he wants to go to an Islamic dictatorship under his direction, the so-called Erdogan Sultanate. In the Netherlands, 64.2% of the Turkish voters vote for him. The minister sees in Erdogan's minions his allies. In view of what I have just said, these respectists in suits do not represent a moderate majority, but rather a radical majority of the Turks in the Netherlands. Allowing Islamic boarding is, given the previous data, the same as rolling out the red carpet for tomorrow's Islamization. According to the explanatory memorandum to this law, there is an estimated 30 Turkish-Dutch boarding schools in the Netherlands. In addition, there are 100 study houses associated with Fethullah Gülen. We talked about this a year ago, but we will not discuss it now. This estimate is based on information from the trade association Educational Centres Netherlands with housing and municipalities. What do you mean it's estimated? How can it be that municipalities are apparently not aware of the exact number of institutions within their borders? And how's that gonna work when supervision's in place? How is the Minister going to ensure that municipalities maintain that supervision? He considers it sufficient that a holder of a youth residence should report once to the mayor's and aldermen's college on the conduct of a youth residence. This obligation of notification should allow the College to exercise supervision. Can the Minister guarantee that all holders of existing youth residences will actively report? And what should happen to holders who do not report? Does the Minister share our view that existing and new institutions which do not report should be closed immediately anyway? The Turkish organisations affected by the investigation into parallel communities show an appalling lack of transparency. Why does the Minister think this will be better with Turkish-Dutch boarding schools? Does the Minister agree with us that within the Turkish-Islamic culture of silence, the function of a trusted person will turn out to be a shambles? And if not, why not? The Stichting Islamic Centrum Nederland and the vast majority of the responses to the internet consultation indicate that they have no confidence in the law. This law is perceived as monitoring and discrimination against Turkish-Dutch boarding schools and Muslims in general, with the ultimate aim of closing it down. In their opinion, the law affects freedom of religion. Doesn't the Minister, like the PVV and a large part of the Dutch population, have enough of this eternal aggressive victim behavior? Is the Minister tired of this whining or is he wearing the Islamophobic penance dress on these accusations? We would like to be clear about this. Finally, does the Minister share our view that such accusations of Islamophobia in all cases only serve to intimidate and undermine the social and political discourse? We would also like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr De Graaf mentioned the Ascher-Ankara axis, but I would like to ask a question about the De Graaf-Leefbaar Rotterdam axis. In the radio broadcast to which I already referred in my own term, the relevant council member of Leefbaar Rotterdam actually indicated that he wanted to ban all religious boarding schools in the Netherlands. Is that a position shared by the PVV Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u18	I've been listening to a piece of that broadcast. I also heard Mr Heerma speak about this in his own contribution. As far as we are concerned, all boarding schools with an Islamic background are closing. I will most probably table a motion for that. I just lost the first question about the axis Leefbaar Rotterdam-PVV. We're in the same kind of movement, but there's no official connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u19	It is a good thing that Mr De Graaf referred to that last point. It was just a pun that followed his own pun. Livable Rotterdam says she doesn't want boarding schools at all, of any religion. Mr De Graaf says: no, the PVV Group believes that religious boarding schools are allowed, but not if they are linked to Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes, because we're talking about an ideological boarding school, and we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u21	Apart from the fact that I do not share the view of Leefbaar Rotterdam either, I must say that she is at least consistent in her approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u22	I also see a major consequence of this in the PVV. We have no problem with religion, but with a certain ideology. Again, we've talked about that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill on youth residences, as a result of the motion by Mr Azmani and myself (33400-XV, No. 94). I would like to thank the Minister for sending us the proposed draft of this widely adopted motion. First of all, I would like to emphasise our principles when dealing with this law. With us the children are central, just like fortunately with almost all parents the children are central. We stand for the freedom of parents to shape the upbringing of their children themselves. If parents think their children are better off in a youth center during the week, then they have that freedom. We are also in favour of freedom of unification. All this does not change the fact that we continue to worry when staying in, for example, a mosque internate can lead to poor integration. The ideal situation is that children grow up with their parents. If this does not happen and parents have chosen to leave care for their children to third parties for a long time, then we as a government have the duty of care. We take this duty of care seriously, not only in schools or childcare, but also in youth centres, private or not. That was the motive for our motion in 2013: not looking away but looking back at these children. The VVD and the PvdA wanted a framework for quality, legally anchored, with the authority to supervise. In the meantime, a lot has happened in the last two years. Juvenile quarters picked up the glove. They now have an industry organisation ECN and have entered into dialogue with the national and municipal authorities. A quality framework has emerged from this in consultation with the Minister. The industry has also organised monitoring, with inspectors providing advice appreciated by the youth centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mrs Yücel spoke of lack of information. Can she tell me exactly what she means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u25	That's what I'm talking about. If staying in a youth home, a youth home or a mosque home leads to isolation, until it is no longer in contact with Dutch society, it no longer comes into contact with Western values and all kinds of other values, which hopefully leads to self-determination, personal freedom and freedom of conscience, I call that lack of integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u26	That's a "then" reasoning. I would like to know what Mrs Yücel is basing these statements on. The Minister states in the explanatory memorandum and in the report on the legislation that this is not the case. Mrs Yücel talks about lack of information and isolation and she states that there is no self-determination. Can she back those statements? I don't think she can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr Kuzu referred to statements in the cabinet letter which did not refer to socio-cultural integration. There would be no problem with that. Socio-economically, children seem to be doing the right thing, also because homework guidance is taking shape well, but let us not fool each other. You don't have to be a psychic, you don't have to put extra strong glasses on. When you visit those mosque interiors, you can see that children stay there "monoethnically." We also know that they have an orthodox, conservative-religious value formation. We are not in the minds of people, by the way. We will never do that, but the result may be that removal will occur with Dutch society, with Dutch values, with living together. That's the point I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'm fighting that image. That is by no means the issue. Here's a person who spent nine years at one of those boarding schools. I do not feel at all away from Western society. Mrs. Yücel says she has faith in the parents. They have a choice whether or not to send children to a boarding school, a youth residence, but Mrs Yücel is actually sending out the signal that, if parents do, they are not really suitable parents. That is why it wants to regulate this with a law, and that is why it wants to organise that supervision. That's the signal she's sending.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u29	I do not judge Mr Kuzu himself and his degree of integration. When parents choose to leave their children to third parties' care for a long time, outside their field of view, and we look back on that, that is to be praised. That is to be commended, not because accidents have occurred but to prevent children from growing up in a non-healthy or safe way. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u30	I am trying to see where Mrs Yücel stands in this debate. The Minister says that we are going to legally anchor a quality framework and I have found no problems from all my research. Mrs Yücel's motion with Mr Azmani of the VVD states that she believes that children are being separated and that this is detrimental to education and integration. I think it's one of two. Does she agree with the Minister's line he outlines in the documents we have received about this law, or does she have a much more negative picture of these boarding schools? What conclusions does she draw from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u31	It will not surprise you: I fully support our motion and its content. If I understand him correctly, Mr Van Weyenberg refers to a passage in one of the cabinet letters stating that the cabinet does not in itself regard the youth residences as a kind of parallel society. This could lead to a debate on the wording. In itself, youth accommodation does not have to be a parallel society, but if the outcome of the stay in a youth residence is that children do not have sufficient contact with Dutch society, with the Dutch values and with the fundamental agreements and achievements that we have here, then this can lead to a lack of integration. That it's segregation, you don't have to wear glasses for that. The mosque interiors are monoethnically composed. If that's not segregation, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u32	I note that Mrs Yücel, in a sense, distances herself from the fact that the Minister no longer uses the word parallel society in the documents we get. But I keep asking this question: does Mrs Yücel think that what happens in these boarding schools is harmful to the education of children? If she does, she'll never think the minister goes far enough. It's one of two. I actually taste that Mrs Yücel needs a lot of words to tell her that she disagrees with the Minister's last pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u33	I'm anything but aloof from the Minister's position. I believe, on the contrary, that the Minister is taking a very important step by taking care obligations seriously and setting up a quality framework and an enforcement framework for parents' children who leave care to third parties. That is what we do for youth centres, we do for host parents, and we do for childcare organisations. We do that for everyone. I think we're good at that. Your second question concerns whether I find it problematic. If the mono-ethnic character and the lack of contact with Dutch society is the result, it can indeed be a problem. On the contrary, I want more transparency, a quality framework and a good educational environment. That's what the motion is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u34	I'm intrigued by the smokescreen that Mrs. Yücel is pulling up. During the general consultation prior to this motion, Mrs Yücel was crystal clear. In fact, I had the feeling that she caught up with the VVD somewhat on the right. Mrs Yücel's core point in that AO was: there is a parallel society and there are concerns about integration. The Minister really writes something completely different. He says: there are no examples of cases where social security and development are at risk. He says explicitly: there is no parallel society. Does Mrs Yücel now maintain the line she used earlier, or does she agree with the interpretation given by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u35	This interruption clarifies where Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma want to go. I can be crystal clear about that, too. When I talk about parallel society, it's not just about youth accommodation. It's about a cumulation. If you in total isolation, monoethnic, with totally different values that are at odds with the western values shape your life, you live side by side and not with each other. Then you don't live with an open view of Dutch society, but with your back to Dutch society. I found and find that problematic where that is at issue. Children's stay in the youth residences may result in this being the outcome. It has not been sufficiently transparent so far. We want a good quality framework and supervision. I think this is a good step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mrs Yücel said that there was a parallel society and that action should therefore be taken. It has repeated this in every debate on integration. The Minister says this is not the case. Mrs Yücel has now moved away from "it is so" and went to "it may be so." Would it not be wiser to state, as a very large part of the Chamber does, that there are sufficient rules in this bill for host parents who have children who are not staying at home, rather than being a little shady about whether or not there is a parallel society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think I'm crystal clear. I think it is important that we avoid parallel societies. The stay in a youth residence can lead to a parallel society when children grow up with their backs to Dutch society, do not come into contact with other children of Dutch descent and grow up with values that run counter to the essential values we all try to share and bring forward. Hence our motion, because we are concerned about that parallel society. Everyone has the freedom to choose their own words in this respect. I choose my words and his minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u38	Also in 2013, in the run-up to this bill, Mrs Yücel talked about closed parallel communities where children develop outside Dutch society and where these children seem to be handed over to people who adhere to an orthodox-conservative religious education agenda, without educational supervision. Can I conclude from the previous debates that Mrs Yücel still supports this? How does she look at the distance the Minister takes in the bill of this passage? The Minister says that there is actually no problem of integration. He doesn't write anything about segregation or parallel societies. What does Mrs Yücel think about the Minister even going one step further and considering some of these organisations as his allies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u39	I fully support what I have said and what I am putting forward here today. I think Mrs Karabulut's question can best be answered by the Minister himself. I can't fill out the why and how for the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u40	That wasn't my question either, but Mrs. Yücel can read. I'm sure she's been going over the pieces. She was also able to read the letter in which the Minister is indeed setting a different course and says: we are allies. The Minister makes it very clear in the bill that there is no integration problem in itself. Does Mrs. Yücel share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u41	I note that, from our own political convictions, we are trying, where necessary, to put our finger on the sore spot. I note that the Minister does so regularly. Then it is necessary to work towards a solution. In addition, each has its own style and I give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u42	I would like to continue on this point. How does Mrs Yücel look at the fact that the Minister himself is increasingly standing alongside society and actually working more and more in a parallel society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u43	Perhaps Mr De Graaf can explain his question, because I cannot place it and recognize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u44	That's pretty amazing. There have just been two Members who have interfered. In fact, we see here a good example of a progressive understanding of the debate over the years. When the PVV first used the term "parallel society," everyone still had to throw up, but now everyone uses that term. I therefore note that progress has been made. The Minister first said that there are parallel societies and that we should look critically at Turkish foundations and the like. Now they've become allies and he's working with them. There's an ashtray Ankara-Asscher, it looks like. In this way, the minister actually has the impression that he himself is outside Dutch society and is getting tangled up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr De Graaf is trying to broaden the debate to many other issues within the integration dossier. I don't think that does justice to the bill before us now. Let us focus on the proposal on the Youth Accommodation Act and let us not repeat the integration debate a few weeks ago. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. The so-called zero measurements that most youth homes participated in are good. It is also very good that the youth quarters take themselves seriously. I am talking about the vitality they are mobilising in order to achieve what we, too, like to achieve: a healthy and safe environment for child growth and development and transparency. For us now it is the art of securing in a law what has been achieved in the meantime, and of providing a framework for what remains to be achieved. That's a law that's good for the kids. It's a law that can comply with the youth quarters. It is a law that encourages them to be transparent, rather than a law that discourages them with stacks of forms, ticking lists and protocols. It is a law that is well enforceable and enforceable. The volunteers who, under the supervision of sometimes professionals, accompany the new generation in their homework and in the search for an internship. The ex-students who need to bring the quality framework back into social interaction with the children. They must learn to describe their work processes, to record the results and to complete protocols. Let me quote the industry itself. Embedding is the issue, I heard them say. Experience has shown that this works best if the legal quality requirements are carefully implemented. Is the Minister prepared to arrange a decent implementation time where that is possible? I think that elements of the quality framework are still too unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u46	That is exactly what I am asking. Mrs Yücel and I share the point that educational quality and transparency are very important. I hear Mrs Yücel saying that much has been achieved. Can she tell me whether it is clear and transparent what is the quality of teaching, what is the education about and what is happening in these boarding schools? It relies on the voluntary framework and its results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u47	I understand Mrs Karabulut's question very well. By what has been achieved, I mean, for example, that the mosque interns themselves have set up an industry organisation. They've been talking to the municipality, but they've also been talking to the minister. That is where the legislative proposal came from. Not the objective and the idea behind it, but its implementation and the way in which the quality framework and the enforcement framework could take shape. I note, however, that it is still too global on a number of points. I would like to go into this in more detail in my speech. Can Mrs. Karabulut save her second interruption for then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u48	With your permission, I'd like to finish the point. Of course, I have tabled an amendment on this point for a reason. The quality framework of, for example, boatmasters' interns is very clear and comprehensive, precisely in terms of educational policy and climate, whereas in the current context, this is the identification of a number of practical issues. Can I count on the support of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u49	I can't say that in advance. I have to admit, I don't have the quality framework of the ship's crew interns on my radar. I have no knowledge of that. However, do I want to know from the Minister why no existing quality frameworks have been chosen for similar youth accommodations? That may be a skipper's ternate, but I also had to think of international standards for international boarding schools for children of expats. I would like to hear from the Minister why this choice was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u51	I am in favour of giving the youth residences the space to contribute to the quality framework, but I would like to see the seven topics detailed in a General Measure of Governance. I would also like to see them in the Lower House in a pending procedure, complete with, among other things, a complaint scheme, a children's abuse code and a parent council. Where children are left to the care of third parties, this is important. After all, we do this for all other facilities where children stay for a long time. Can the Minister undertake to do this? I would also like to ask the Minister if there will be a central registration. It is strange that we do have them, for example, for youth institutions and childcare organisations, but not for this. It is also logical to impose a reporting obligation in the event of a relocation, so that there can be an inspection of fire safety and the quality framework in the new housing, for example. It doesn't have to go over a year unnecessarily. This is in the interests of the children and their parents, who entrust care to their children to third parties. We come together with the VVD with an amendment to this law to better guarantee the independence of the trusted person. I would also like to table an amendment to review this law after some time on implementation and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u52	I will come back to the issue of reporting obligations. Mrs Yücel considered two points to be important: monitoring and the educational environment, security. On the subject of reporting obligations, I share Mrs Yücel's view that the wording is too non-binding. We could solve that by means of a licensing obligation, whereby you immediately take the substantive requirements as a standard. Can I count on the support of the PvdA Group for that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u53	I would like to look at that amendment with an open eye. I am also curious about the reaction of the cabinet to that, but it sounds like a possible solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u54	I listened very carefully to Mrs Yücel. If I understand her correctly, she doesn't think what's lying here is enough. I haven't seen an alternative of hers. So the Minister must come up with adjustments or Mrs Yücel will take a serious look at our proposal for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u55	I'm saying here that what's there is very good. After all, a real step is being taken towards a law that, if we can adopt it with each other in a good way, will ensure a healthy and safe growth and development environment within the youth centres and also greater transparency. However, I note that the law on a number of aspects, such as quality standards, is still too global. The Minister doesn't say he's gonna let this happen. No, the cabinet says it's gonna work this out through an AMvB. Since I think it is so important that we take this duty of care and the implementation of the educational frameworks seriously, I think it is desirable that this AMvB should be placed here in the Chamber. I am therefore concerned that we should adopt the law as well as possible. Questions will be raised here, for example why the child abuse code does not apply here. That's how I've asked questions here and there. I will continue my speech. We also see students going to school, internships, sports and sometimes together with the youth center or the mosque-internate participate in social activities in the neighbourhood. That's good. By the way, the youth quarters deserve real compliments for their performance in the field of homework guidance. They do that very well, but we do not close our eyes to the monoethnic nature. We continue to worry about the consequences this could have for integration. In the society we seek, people live together, not side by side. In the society we seek, we share a number of fundamental values, regardless of origin, with non-discriminatory freedom to believe or not to believe, with equal status between men and women, homosexuals and heterosexuals and with free speech. Can the Minister promise that these fundamental commitments we have made in our society will be included in a citizenship framework? Our common goal should be to ensure that young people's homes and mosque interns will be able to come out transparently with good inspection results on the basis of a clear and sound supervisory framework, that children can stay safe and healthy in the youth home, that children do not grow up with their backs to Dutch society but with an open eye to our society and that they can participate fully in a beautiful, shared future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u56	Of course, Mrs Yücel is quite right: all the rights and obligations in the Constitution apply to all of us. Does Mrs Yücel still think that these boarding schools are separating children and that this is detrimental to education and integration, as she wrote in her motion? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill which concerns children who spend a considerable part of their time in youth centres and who should also be given good safety. A system of self-regulation has now been established. The documents we have received from the Minister show that the youth centres have been working on this. The Minister has now chosen to legally lay down these rules. That is what my group supports. As previous speakers have said, we have also made demands in the law for many other places where children are staying for a long time. As far as I'm concerned, it's just good to paint that white stain in the law. The Minister has always said in previous debates on this matter that he really only wanted legislation if the voluntary framework did not work. Now there's a bill in front of it. My group understands this choice, but has the question: does the Minister do it on his own conviction or because the Chamber has asked for it by motion? I do feel a little uncomfortable about the approach route that was followed by this bill. In the debates surrounding the implementation of this law, there was a great deal of unrest, including the real exclusion of children, issues relating to fire safety and so on. The Minister was also quite clear on this at the time. I quote: 'I have always been critical of institutions in which children grow up with their backs to society'. I would be, of course, too, but if I read the Minister's documents now, I will taste a slightly different tone. I quote the Minister again: 'The children are also kept away from contact with society in boarding schools'. They're really being kept out of action. That's a big deal. I quote the Minister again: 'This is how they grow up in a parallel society'. The explanatory memorandum and the note on the report give a slightly different picture. It already states that accommodation in such a boarding school should not be a problem in itself. The tone is also different when it comes to the concept of "parallel society," for example. Mr Heerma has rightly pointed this out. The Minister is simply saying very explicitly, and I am pleased that he is doing so, and that he has no evidence that, for example, security is in any way at stake at the moment or that staying in a boarding school is an obstacle to integration. He doesn't have a practical example where things don't go well. I would like to repeat that my group is okay with legally anchoring this. It's about the safety of children. So I think that's what everyone wants, not least the parents involved. After all, the safety of children is about the highest good you have as a parent. I think it is important that it is clear on the basis of which considerations we come to this legislative proposal. I am supported by the Council of State, which is actually very critical and asks: what exactly is the problem solved? The Council of State also strongly suggests to the Cabinet that the whole bill should be reconsidered. The Minister is going through with the bill. My group supports that, but that makes it particularly important, as far as I am concerned, that we should make explicit not only in documents such as the letter of amendment, the note following the report or the explanatory statement, but also in this Chamber what the objective is and what the picture of the facts is. Would the Minister like to state again what he thinks the purpose of this law is and would he also like to say what it is not intended for? In my opinion, this bill is not there, because things are now seriously going wrong on a large scale. I think it is right for the Minister to state this explicitly here, as he has already done in the written documents. Can the Minister tell us what he is thinking about the functioning of self-regulation and cooperation with the municipalities through the youth centres at the moment? Are all youth accommodation now participating in this voluntary cooperation? If so, that's good. If not, which youth accommodations do not participate? Would the Minister also like to comment more generously on the Council of State's question of principle on the need for legislation? I support his line, but I think it is good to raise this explicitly, because the Council of State had a very compelling opinion on this. It stands for my group that, of course, parents decide for themselves how they shape the education of their children. As far as I am concerned, the bill we are debating today is not intended to restrict parental authority. Mr Bishop has also reflected quite exuberantly in his contribution to this. I think it is good that the Minister makes it very explicit that this is not the aim of this bill either. I say this because parents whose children live in these institutions have concerns about this, because that is how they interpret it. This is partly due to the way in which the law has flown. I therefore think it is right to be very clear about this today. How does the Minister see the fact that there is now a bit of a risk that the voluntary framework could be put under pressure by legislation? That's something no one wants. How does the Minister see that? This is certainly also due to the meeting he had with parents himself. The Minister writes in the note in response to the report that it was clear from reactions that the concerns and concerns are partly based on incorrect images, incorrect information and incorrect assumptions. I think that is a bit too quick and perhaps even too easy, because these images were partly created by expressions, including those of the Minister, in debates. It would therefore be a good idea for the Minister to address the question of how he sees the role of parental authority in detail. I am extremely curious to hear the Minister's response to Mr Bishop's amendment on risk-oriented supervision rather than standard once a year. What I did not hear Mr Bishop say, but what is important for my group is that this is a bit of the line that the cabinet has used widely with supervision. Then why would you make a different assessment here? What was the consideration and how does the Minister view Mr Bishop's amendment? I also have a question about the obligation to report on the closure of a youth centre. The minister says he's not really in favour of that. The Association of Dutch Municipalities is. On the one hand, because it prevents you from checking somewhere when the youth residence is no longer in existence. On the other hand, which I think is even more important if possible, you will get a good idea of which youth accommodations are active within the municipal boundaries at some point. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. I would also like to respond to the debate that I believe is being held by the Minister and the UNG on the costs of inspection. When I read the documents, it seems that the Minister actually concludes that the inspection does not cost the previously reported €1,000 but €2,400. Did I get that correctly? Do I also understand that if it turns out that supervision costs are out of control because, for example, there must be more frequent inspections because there may be more youth centres than the minister thinks, there will still be a discussion with the municipalities? Mr Yücel has asked a number of questions about the General Measure of Governance. For the sake of clarity, I agree with that. I am also curious when it will come and whether it will be placed in the Chamber. Do I understand correctly that the AMvB is not intended to further strengthen the agreements that have already been made voluntarily with the institutions, but above all to provide greater clarity and legal certainty for both municipalities and youth centres? Finally. As far as I am concerned, this law is essentially about the question of whether, since we have rules for the social security of children for many institutions where children reside, we should not also settle for these youth homes. My group supports this, not because it turns out that when I read the Minister's documents, it is not a reason for this, but because it is a good thing to fill in this white spot. I think it is important to get this clear in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u59	I hear Mr Van Weyenberg talking about a white stain, physical safety and the process. In an interrupting debate with Mrs Yücel, he asked where the PvdA stands on the issue of integration, where the Minister stands and how that relates to both positions. However, I do not hear what the position of D66 is. Mr Van Weyenberg has signed a motion which states that we must prevent children from being cut off from society. That's the Azmani/Yücel motion. That's what he supported at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u60	Just for the record, I didn't sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u61	No, but you did support the motion, and if you support it, I think you agree with it. Did you come back to that now? Are you saying that there is no longer a problem of integration at all, and it is only about physical safety and the proper organisation of the process? Or do you have an opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u62	I welcome this question from Mr Potters. If we have not co-signed a motion, we shall look at the request contained in it. That request was to prepare legislation so that it could enter into force if necessary. That was the verdict in that motion, and I fully support it. The fact that we support a motion does not mean that we support every consideration. I do not share the general theorem that was posted here. Since that motion has been tabled and dealt with in this Chamber, we have also received further information from the Minister who, as far as I am concerned, does not support that statement either. I can already announce to Mr Potters that, when he has the floor, I will ask him whether he still considers this statement to be relevant, given the motion he has tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u63	Very useful, but the question is still where the D66 Group stands when it comes to integration and this dossier. I note that Mr Van Weyenberg believes that there are no integration problems. In his opinion, it's about physical safety and some white spots. He supported the motion that was tabled at the time, but this operative part had not really been supported by his group. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u64	The operative part of the motion is an appeal to the cabinet. The operative part of this motion was: prepared legislation. I supported that, and I still support it, otherwise I would have made another contribution today. The question is, of course, whether you're doing this because it goes wrong on a large scale. That's a fair question. I will ask that question about every place where children stay, whether it is a parent's or a youth residence. Only, as far as I am concerned, the Minister has answered that question quite generously. A number of spokesmen have asked whether he has the whole picture in mind. That's an interesting question. And this is my position. The freedom of parents to choose their own education is, of course, paramount. It's not a question of whether I'd send my kid to a youth center or a Sunday school. The question is whether parents have the right to do so and whether there is reason to do so for the safety and development of children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u65	This is not really a clear answer, but perhaps D66 does not have that answer either when we talk about segregation and monoethnic cultural education. In addition to aspects such as security and development, which Mr Van Weyenberg rightly refers to, it is questionable whether he considers it desirable, from the perspective of coexistence and integration, for groups to separate themselves, for children to be raised in a monoculture with a desire for surrender, in which we have absolutely no insight into the educational environment. Is that the kind of society that favors D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mrs. Karabulut is making it a caricature. The essence is that I support this bill because it sees a quality framework that needs to be drawn up transparently. Its supervision is arranged. The difference between the Socialist Group and my group is that I believe that people have the freedom to make choices. Citizenship and participation in this society are very important. Mrs Karabulut wanted mandatory intervention earlier when the question was where people live. Just like then, I have the freedom of people to make their own choices, including about raising their children, surrounded by legal guarantees. That's why I support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Van Weyenberg contradicts himself. He rightly draws a parallel with nurserys and other youth homes. I'm asking him if he's serious about freedom. After all, this is about the individual freedom of children to develop, to be as they are or wish to become. It is also a question of whether children have that freedom or whether they are suffocated by all the standards and rules that prevent them from experiencing this free development. If Mr Van Weyenberg wants to look away from that, I am very disappointed. D66 must also have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u68	The difference is that Mrs Karabulut wants to enter very far on the basis of her own opinion on an exactly good programme for children. I fully agree with her that everyone should be able to make their own assessment. In this country it is not forbidden to be orthodox, for example, whether it is Christian Orthodox or Islamic Orthodox. The problem I have with her statement is that she imposes a kind of normative framework that does not fit that freedom of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a long-cherished wish of the VVD, namely the legal supervision of mosque interiors in the form of the Law on Youth Accommodations. The VVD welcomes the fact that this bill finally implements the Azmani/Yücel motion. Until now, there has been insufficient or no sight on mosque interiors and children are ultimately affected. Legally enforceable measures will improve the monitoring of these mosque interiors and other boarding houses. Integration must now be at the forefront, not segregation. We can no longer stand by and watch young children grow up in these boarding schools outside Dutch society and do not have sufficient contact with Dutch values. Mosque interiors are not part of the Dutch education system. Children spend the night there, receive Qur'an education and are updated about their homeland. They grow up too isolated and therefore have too little contact with Dutch society. Pre-school and post-school there is no meeting with children who may have other ideas or receive other education. It's just gotta be over sedating these kids. This is detrimental to the education and integration of these children, and thus to society in the long term. To prevent this, we need to know what is happening in these boarding schools. The shocking results of research into the causes of anti-Semitism among young people show that a great deal remains to be done in the field of integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u70	I have a question on this general point. Mr Potters talks about the law on mosque interiors and integration. Mr Potters is also talking about living together and mutual adjustment, but the Minister is not talking about that. In fact, the Minister is absolving himself of that. What is Mr Potters' opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u71	I would like to come back to this later in my speech, because we have, of course, strong views on this. That will be evident later in my plea. Let's just wait and see. Mrs Karabulut may then ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u72	Well, okay, but I still have a follow-up question. How, then, does Mr Potters intend to make a contribution to the integration into society, particularly as regards the educational environment and the educational development of children, and how does he intend to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u73	This bill will give us an insight into what is happening in boarding schools. We have all heard examples where you really need to know what is happening there. Yesterday we also received examples from Rotterdam. This is the step we are taking. As a result, the municipalities have the opportunity to literally see what is going on in the door. In my view, they can also emphasise the integration objectives that each municipality has.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u74	Please continue, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u75	That was actually another point, Mr President. Anyway, I'll just come back to the microphone later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u76	That was already agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u77	If Mr Potters' picture is correct, then he cannot possibly be satisfied with the bill that is now before him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u78	I am very pleased with this bill. In my opinion, this is really a step in the right direction. This is a way in which we can ultimately ensure that supervision is put in place and that we have an insight into what is happening. In doing so, we are putting the municipalities in the lead to take steps in the field of the integration agenda of their society. I am therefore pleased that we are now taking this step in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u79	My group is also in favour of this bill. However, I can actually hear Mr Potters say that this is a first step. That's what I heard him say the other day. So what are the follow-up steps that need to be taken as far as he is concerned and how is he going to organise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u80	The great thing is that I think we are now taking a first, very important step. We now have a supervisory framework and we give the municipal councils and the colleges the opportunity to see what happens at these boarding schools. I think this is very important, given what we hear from the municipality of Rotterdam in particular. We take that step now and if anything else is needed afterwards, then we are back here again. I'm glad we're taking this step together now. It is clear that the motion by the VVD Group and the PvdA Group to establish a quality framework and the subsequent legislative proposal aims to prevent the isolation of children visiting mosque interiors and thus not to hinder integration. This can also be read literally in the Azmani/Yücel motion. Remarkably, however, in the legislative proposal, the Minister for Social Affairs seems to completely deny that this bill is intended to address the integration problems. He also distanced himself from the integration aspect in the note on the report. In the past, the Minister for Social Affairs has said that they want to be standardized when it comes to integration. The note following the report says literally the following about mosque interiors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u81	What exactly does the VVD Group want to solve the problem of integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u82	I think that is perfectly clear. That's what the quote I'm putting forward also means. It appears that these children and young people grow up to a large extent outside Dutch society. If they go to an Islamic school and then go to a mosque internate, they are far too little in contact with other young people and children and thus also with other images. I think that is very important, because integration means that you need to know a few things about each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u83	The problem is that there is an image here that these children and young people would be outside society, while these children simply go to school. They just go to regular education. The picture that they are thus outside of society is therefore not correct at all. Can Mr Potters state his views on self-determination, on whether they are outside Dutch society, in one way or another, on the basis of research or own experience? Mrs Yücel of the PvdA Group could not do that, namely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u84	We have received examples of this, especially from Rotterdam but also from other municipalities. The municipalities say they have almost no idea what's going on. When they get there, they see that these children are actually out of society from early in the morning to late in the evening. Sometimes these kids go to Islamic school. Then they go to a mosque internate. That's where they're being picked up. They'll spend the night there, too. They have almost no contact with other children in society, both in pre-school and post-school. That is undesirable, and I think we should simply name it. It is also not so complicated to say that this really stands in the way of integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u85	I just indicated in my contribution that these kids just go to school. They're also in society. They're getting guidance on their homework there. Mr Potters creates an image that does not make any sense. He's arguing out of suspicion. Where does this mistrust come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think it's a repeat of moves. If you look closely at what is going on, if you listen carefully to the sounds and what the municipal authorities and the lectures say, it is quite clear to me that they want to have a better view of what is happening. It is simply not desirable for young people at such a vulnerable age to leave society for so long, because they do not actually participate in Dutch society in the evenings, nights and preschools. That is really bad for integration. We just shouldn't want that. I think it is a good thing that we are taking this legislative proposal one step further in order to get a much better picture of it. I was in the middle of a quote. The note following the report states: "As far as socio-cultural integration is concerned, researchers see a high degree of social participation at the service of other Turkish Dutch. The former pupils are strongly oriented towards their own population in the Netherlands. According to the research they attach to their Turkish identity, but feel equally Dutch citizens and want to mean something in terms of work and participation for other Turkish Dutch people in the Netherlands. The contact with non-Turkish Dutch often seems limited to the public domain such as school." When I read this, I wonder why the Minister is moving away from the integration aspect of this bill. Why does he leave the inter-administrative supervision to his colleague from VWS? Who does the Minister think the best way to lay down inter-administrative supervision is to do so? Is that at VWS, at OCW, when it comes to learning Dutch values and democracy, or at SZW? Why should it be deposited with one of these services? Can the Minister confirm that he remains ultimately responsible for this law and its implementation? I'd like to get a reaction to this. According to Article 3, the undisturbed development of the minor should be promoted. As far as the VVD is concerned, "undisturbed development" also means integrating instead of segregation. How does the Minister see that? That is not explicitly stated in this article. I would also like to receive a response to this. Then I would like to go a little further on a specific part of the legislative proposal, namely the mandatory appointment of a trusted person. By setting up a trusted person, children or their parents can contact someone who provides their independent support for possible difficult questions, uncertainties, problems and unwanted behaviour, for example, within a mosque-internate. In the legislative proposal, it was chosen that the youth associations should be free to fill in the function of the trusted person in their own way. The guarantee of independence is then completed with the condition that the trusted person must be independent. There is, however, no guarantee whatsoever that this confidential person is truly independent. Those who maintain a youth residence may not, according to this proposal, interfere with the work of the trusted person, but that does not guarantee independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr Heerma has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u88	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I was just a little late, excuse me. It is indeed about the previous point. Mrs Yücel has just said that she and the PvdA Group still believe that there is a parallel society. The Minister explicitly states that he does not think that is the case. What does Mr Potters think? His input is almost entirely about mosque interiors. Are these boarding schools an expression of a parallel society and therefore agree with the Labour Party? Or does he support the rather explicit line laid down by the cabinet in the note on the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u89	Let it be clear: we see this as part of a parallel society. We can see that a society is emerging here that is actually getting away from Dutch society and that we have no idea about. I think we are taking a good step with this bill, but I do not agree with what the cabinet says about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u90	That's interesting. If it is a fact for the VVD Group that it is an expression of a parallel society, Mr Van Weyenberg's question is justified. Then how can you be satisfied with this bill? Then you're moving in the direction of a total ban, which we heard from Leefbaar Rotterdam on Monday during that broadcast. Why is supervision sufficient if it is established that it is a parallel society? More relevant is that this is specifically about integration. Mr Potters is also constantly talking about the lack of attention to integration. Key objectives apply in education. The monitoring of the education inspection is explicitly about active citizenship and social inclusion. Education must focus on this. Article 3 of this bill does not contain this. Does Mr Potters think that this should be included?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u91	I agree. I think it would be good if we paid more attention to that. Maybe the Minister can still respond to that. Indeed, I believe that citizenship, especially in the sense of learning our democratic values, should be brought to the attention of the mosque interiors. I will continue with my speech on the confidant. The VVD likes to see independence better guaranteed. The conditions are that the trusted person must not have family ties within the boarding school or be employed by the youth residence or be allowed to work as a volunteer. I have already tabled an amendment on this subject, together with colleagues from the PvdA and the SP. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally. We can no longer stand by and watch young children grow up in these boarding schools outside Dutch society and do not have sufficient contact with Dutch values. To prevent isolation, we need to know what's going on in the boarding schools. The VVD is therefore a strong supporter of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u92	The VVD is clear and distances itself from the Minister's line, who sees no integration problems and suddenly no longer talks about segregation or parallel societies. The Azmani/Yücel motion is still leading. Very specific points, such as quality requirements, insight into the educational environment and citizenship, are not guaranteed in this legislative proposal. I have tabled two amendments to that effect. First of all, instead of merely a non-binding notification, I would like to have a licensing obligation, so that municipalities really have to do something with it. Secondly, I want a quality framework, which is more advanced in all these areas than is currently the case. I then base myself on the voluntary quality framework. Can this be supported by the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think we can be positive about that. It is important, however, that the licensing system is an enforceable system. We're not just talking about this group. It will also apply to a wider group. But I would like to know from the Minister what this entails in terms of implementation costs. When it comes to the quality framework, perhaps the Minister will be able to clarify what he means by quality. If this can be done later or if it becomes clear in this debate, we will see if that is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u94	I note that on these two points the VVD considers the bill to be insufficient and calls for a supplement from the cabinet. At least I'm happy about that. I have one final point, and that concerns the title. You also talk about mosque interiors and other youth accommodations. Do you think the title should be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u95	In my view, we are creating a legal framework for holiday accommodation and we are dealing with vulnerable groups to which other youth workers may also apply. I do think we should be very clear about where the cause is. And that's, of course, at the mosque internates. We have seen that there is very little visibility and that we want to know more about what is happening there. When it comes to integration objectives, we have also made it clear that we really need to do something about it. That is also the reason for this debate, but I do not think it is wrong that we should broaden it a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u96	I shall then give the floor to Mr Kuzu as the last speaker in this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. This is a legislative process, so I am able to live up to my speaking time. No, I'll try not to make it half an hour. At Think, the welfare of young people is a priority. That is what we stand for. We therefore support all proposals which are genuinely based on the efforts to promote the health, safety and happiness of young people. How can a man of understanding and understanding oppose this? However, it is our firm belief that the legislative proposal we are discussing today is in no way based on the aim of improving the well-being of young people. This bill is due to mistrust. Look at the consultation round. Look at the way in which the organisations involved make statements. Distrust organisations, in which volunteers work with heart and soul to improve the situation of young people. Distrust organisations that have recently volunteered to become more transparent and have voluntarily taken measures to ensure quality. We are opposed to this tendency of mistrust. We feel that certain organisations are being examined more than other organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u98	Can Mr Kuzu give me other examples of boarding facilities that we hear of girls being tucked away in unsafe situations in the attic or that we know are behind certain religious organisations, but we are not getting a grip on them? Can Mr Kuzu give me other examples? I agree with him that it is not a matter of double standards, but of defending the safety and welfare and development of these children, and that is something Mr Kuzu cannot oppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u99	Let me be very clear about this: I am not against safety. Of course I'm not against safety. Let there be absolutely no misunderstanding about that. However, the picture that is raised that it would be a question of guaranteeing safety is not correct at all. The Minister himself stated in his reply that there was no such thing and that there were no concrete reasons for it. The image you are sketching about girls who would sleep in an attic room is a fantastic caricature; that of course puts a certain sentiment and a certain feeling in society, but in my opinion does not do justice to reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u100	And then my other question. Can Mr Kuzu mention other examples of boarding facilities with other religious backgrounds, but where there is a similar type of operation and there is no government supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u101	I think I have answered that very clearly. If you outline a situation which, in my view, does not do justice to reality, then those other examples do not exist either. The examples you give about other boarding schools are not there, but the picture you draw is also wrong. I will make a very clear point in my contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u102	Can Mr Kuzu then assume that from different perspectives and perspectives, but also from the perspective of living together, the involvement and concerns for the well-being of these children are genuine? Would it not please Mr Kuzu and also those organizations if they were to go along with it and make the objectives clearer and more transparent without absolving everyone and accusing them of racism, mistrust and much more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u103	That's exactly what I did. In the last two years, a form of voluntary monitoring has been organised. In my contribution, I will make a very strong point about this, because this voluntary monitoring is working fine. So I have no reason to make this a law. I am, of course, waiting for the Minister's reply and will base my final conclusion on it, but I do not think that the picture outlined is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u104	You can differ about flight routes, contexts and views. If we put it aside, I understand that Mr Kuzu is paying a great deal of attention to this. So we have done so with all the other organisations where children reside. You could also use my group's line and say that the law itself does not make much difference, and then Mr Kuzu can find a lot of things about the tone and saying about distrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u105	I have a few minutes to speak. I will also point out a number of elements in this legislative proposal which we would like to see changed. We will consider tabling amendments to that effect, depending on the Minister's response. The basic idea that you want to improve the educational environment, that you want to guarantee security, I share. We have also arranged this with voluntary supervision. However, I am opposed to the way in which this discussion has been conducted. That was based on a NRC article that was unpacked. There would be all kinds of abuses, but now the Minister himself states that this is not actually the case. We're here making a law with each other based on the wrong starting points. I oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u106	I, too, have asked questions about the cause and the image of the Minister. The essence remains that there is now a law that is entirely in line with the voluntary framework and that regulates a number of things where otherwise there would be a legislative void. Apart from all the other views that Mr Kuzu has put into full justice, you can't be against that, can you? It's fine that you're making a law for this, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u107	No, that's not fine, because we object to a number of parts of the bill. In advance of my speech, I'm sure I'll give you one part. The supervision is deposited with the municipalities. I have heard a practical example of the preparation of a complaint procedure. This is part of the bill. How can one and the same complaint procedure be approved by the inspector of the municipality of Amsterdam and rejected by the inspector of the municipality of Rotterdam? That's exactly what I object to. We will therefore table amendments on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u108	Does Mr Kuzu share our view that the government has a duty of care when parents leave the education of their children to third parties, by choice? If so, why else does Mr Kuzu look at supervision and quality frameworks for foster care, host parents, childcare and other youth institutions? You could also say that with these kind of host-parent-plus-constructions or foster-care-min-constructions it is very good that we look at these children in between. In conclusion, I would like to say that the attitude of Mr Kuzu and Mr Öztürk, in my opinion, nourishes mistrust rather than normalising coexistence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u109	Now I am accused of something Mrs Yücel did herself two years ago. We had extensive discussions about this in another setting. The mistrust that Mrs Yücel is talking about arose from a NRC article. She was standing in front of the queue to make sure that motions were filed and laws were made. With regard to the children's playrooms, hostage care and so on, it is good that we look back at children in our society. I absolutely agree with Mrs Yücel. However, the way in which we organise and shape that through this legislative proposal is very distrustful. There is a wonderful amendment by Mr Bishop on risk selection in supervision. We intend to support that. Why do we have to deal with risk selection for supervision at host-parent shelters, preschool playrooms and schools, and do we agree here in the law that this is a visit at least once a year? Those things, I think, are part of the double measure that Mrs Yücel seems to like and agree with and which she can live with. However, I cannot live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u110	We can find something from the tone of the debate, but let us stay away from it for a while. It's the bill that matters to me. Once again, does Mr Kuzu share the view that a quality and enforcement framework that is legally guaranteed is a good guarantee for children if education is left to third parties and that it contributes to the transparency of youth accommodations, which may help to remove images that have been shot through here and there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mrs Yücel often talks in this Chamber about self-determination and the right of young people to have their own lives. I would like to see self-determination extended to parents who want to raise their children in a certain way. In her contribution, she constantly talks about poor information, about inadequate safety, about children growing up isolated from society. These are images which the Minister of the PvdA Group himself said did not do justice to reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u112	We stand for the freedom of parents who have the choice to raise their children at their own discretion. That's not what this is about. That's what parents do when they take their children to a daycare center or host. This is about caring for children who have been left to third parties by parents for a long time. The obligation of care must be guaranteed as far as possible from the public authorities. I note that Mr Kuzu attaches less importance to the residence of these children, to the duty of care. I can't draw another conclusion. There is a duty to care at child care, but with the host parents, but not at youth accommodations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mrs Yücel is free to consider and observe until she weighs one on us, but we are in favour of the duty of care from the government. However, the way in which this bill is designed is based on a sense of distrust. We also see that some parts of the law apply to other sectors. Mrs Yücel is constantly giving examples of this. The way in which this is designed is therefore not unambiguous and not consistent. That's what I'm fighting here. Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the way in which certain organisations are being examined more than other organisations. First, it's about religious organizations that would obstruct integration, while several investigations by Sunier, Landman and Staring show that this image is far too unsophisticated. However, monitoring was used and the positive contributions of these organisations were under-explored. Mr Heerma has also asked the Minister whether these organisations contribute to the deradicalisation of groups in our society and that they have a preventive effect. Of course, that's underexposed. Soon, a documentary will be broadcast on public broadcasting on this issue, in which the minister did not want to cooperate because it is policy not to look back. You can then of course ask yourself what the difference is between looking back on policy and a policy evaluation. I'll leave that question for a moment, because today we're talking about youth accommodation. Why is there such a spastic reaction in politics by a number of colleagues and in the media when it comes to people who claim their place in the Netherlands, their country, and want to work for a future? Why do we act and speak on the basis of unfounded suspicions, when we wrong a lot of people with them? Why do we put groups in our country away as dangerous elements that would disrupt our society? I would like a response from the Minister to these questions. I will just say it directly to the Minister: do not put me away as a conspiracy thinker immediately, but respond based on this. I am opposed to this trend. The realization must now come to mind that we in the Netherlands have 2.5 million new Dutch people who will stay here. Get used to it. These aren't people with a double agenda. These are Dutch citizens. These aren't people who want to disrupt our society. These are people who have built our society with us and want to continue to be part of our society. Yet the double measure reigns, the delusion of the day. The government indicates that the social debate on Turkish-Dutch youth residences has led to the legislative proposal. These youth centres would hamper integration. They would maintain a parallel society that is not oriented towards the Netherlands. There would also be insufficient security in these youth centres. However, the government does not base itself on concrete reasons. It is based on the right-wing gut feeling that politically takes away all sight of reality. I would like to answer the question as to why. Is that a NRC article or is it a matter of two MPs, the PvdA and the VVD, trying to make a bill? In its contribution, the government itself states that it does not have any evidence that social security in Turkish-Dutch boarding schools is threatened in such a way that it is harmful to children. This is stated in the explanatory memorandum. The government has also not investigated the integration of Turkish-Dutch youth residences before drafting the bill. That is what the note on the basis of the report says. The government cannot even come up with a practical example that shows that things are going on that would not be good. Once again, I have taken this out of the note on the basis of the report. Then where is the reason for this law? Where is the legitimate reason to distrust these organisations? On what basis does the Minister base his assumption that things would be bad with the integration of Turkish-Dutch youth residences? As far as we are concerned, the bill is not a stick behind the door but a stick to hit with. The discussion surrounding this law has been contaminated by the whole integration debate. I want to strengthen this story with a personal contribution. There's someone in front of you who's been in a youth center himself. I can tell you that of the expressions that are being used here about this kind of institution, not a word is true. The youth center helped me finish my school. The youth center helped me study. It has contributed to the person I am now, MP. I'm standing here today to speak to you. My group therefore questions the need for this law. Since January 2014, the youth residences concerned have been agreed together with the government and the municipalities on a voluntary basis. Most of the youth residences are now participating in this. This system of non-binding cooperation and control works well for the organisations and for the children for whom we say we do it. It improves the contact between municipalities and organisations and leads to control of the quality of service. The agreed quality framework is implemented by the organisations. This is again controlled by municipalities. It seems that this harmonious cooperation is now threatened by political action by The Hague. Instead of becoming a partner, this law offers municipalities the opportunity to become a mockery of youth residences. Is the Minister not afraid that the changing relationships between youth centres and municipalities will lead to worsening relationships that ultimately affect children and young people? Why do we not continue with the voluntary way of working together? That works well, doesn't it? It may also be asked whether municipalities do not already have enough tools to ensure the social security of young people growing up. The Youth Act offers these kinds of handles. If, in the opinion of the College of B and W, there are problems with a child, if the problem-solving capacity of the child or parents is insufficient, the college may provide facilities. This can also be done if parents place their child in an unsafe situation outside the family. I didn't think of that. These words come from the opinion of the Council of State. This can also happen if children stay in a youth center.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u114	I have two questions for Mr Kuzu. The first question concerns the last sentences of Mr Kuzu's speech. If it is important that municipalities should be able to exercise supervision, is it not important to know what is going on in such a youth internationate, that you can see what is happening there and that supervision can be exercised? I believe that this is an excellent support for the implementation of this law. Then there's the other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u115	Shall we do the questions one by one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u116	That makes it easier for me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u117	For everyone, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u118	Obviously, you need to have a look at what's happening inside a youth center. That is the terminology used by the law. It would adorn Mr Potters if he used the same terminology because the image of a Muslim internationate where children would sleep in a mosque is not based on reality. Of course, you have to have a look at this, but that is already because of the way in which we have dealt with this issue at the moment, with voluntary monitoring and the voluntary quality framework. It is precisely the VVD that should not advocate this kind of unnecessary legislation!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u119	I think it's about being able to act as a college, even if someone doesn't cooperate, and to see what's going on there, especially when it comes to mosque interns. Let us just name it because that is the reason for this discussion. Mr Kuzu is running a little away from that, but I do not. Then there's my other question. When it comes to integration in the Netherlands, I think it is crucial that children grow up in a society where they also get in touch with other children. They need to see different values, different standards and different images. We're talking about kids who might go to Islamic school, but if they don't, they'll go straight to the youth center. They stay there at night, at night and in the morning, for a very long time. How can Mr Kuzu claim that there is still integration and that good citizenship can be achieved? Mr Kuzu could not agree with that, could he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u120	First of all, I would like to make it very clear that I am not running away from any discussion. I will therefore reply to Mr Potters' first question. The suggestion he is now putting forward that there would be no control and that there would be insufficient resources to intervene is not correct. The Youth Act states that a college of B and W can intervene if something is not going well. Mr Potters should not pretend that children are living alone in a youth residence and are therefore separated from society. On the contrary, they go to school, citizenship is being shaped, and values are being shared that Mr Potters and I have high regard for. It is simply not right that I can confirm from my own practice that you live in isolation from society, as Mr Potters says. If that were the case, you wouldn't be able to become a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u121	I am almost inclined to say something about Mr Kuzu's degree of integration, but I will not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u122	You're welcome to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u123	It is a question of taking young people out of society for a long time and only growing up in their own environment, where there is little monitoring. I think it is perfectly normal that we do have that supervision. That is what Mr Kuzu should want if he wants to write "integration" with a capital letter. He should welcome this rather than keep this group isolated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u124	If "integration" is at the beginning of a sentence, you have to write it with a capital letter and if it is in the middle of a sentence, you have to write it with a small letter. I assume I do not have to explain this to Mr Potters. However, I would like to challenge him to say something about the extent of my integration and to tell him what he thinks the definition of 'integration' is. For me, "integration" is that someone who lives in this country knows the language, contributes to society and knows the values and values of society. Then we are talking about integration. I have no signal that I can assume that these three aspects, which for me are the basic elements for integration, will be omitted in youth centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mr Kuzu takes himself as an example. It's okay. It's possible. I do not need a debate on Mr Kuzu, but I do know other examples. I have spoken to people who have withdrawn from this type of movement from this type of movement, the Süleymancilar, the Nurcular, the Gülenists, the Milli Görüscüler, and who have experienced pressure. These movements are not transparent about that, by the way. Those people have also dealt with sexual harassment. That is the tricky thing about giving individual examples, but since Mr Kuzu is doing so, let me also give some examples. Mr Kuzu says that it is so great for integration, for society, for accepting homo-emancipation, for not rejecting non-thinkers or non-believers and even before the meeting. Then there is nothing against laying it down in rules, making it transparent and easy to understand and test it, in case there are people who want to abuse it, in case there are other types of missionary work being done that may run counter to the generally accepted idea of living together? What is Mr Kuzu so afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u126	I'm afraid of nothing and nobody. I agree with Mrs Karabulut that young people should have the right to have their own lives. If they do not want to go to a youth home, they should simply be able to say it to their parents, because this is done on a voluntary basis. In that Mrs Karabulut has a partner in me. She gives an example of sexual harassment. Of course, we must fight this, as we do in all possible ways. However, in my contribution I am trying to demonstrate that some of the issues that have led to the drafting of this bill are not well-founded enough to require a legislative proposal. After all, we already have other legislation, such as the Youth Act and criminal law, as far as sexual harassment is concerned. That legislation already provides for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u127	I am trying to see if Mr Kuzu can live up to the concerns that exist and whether he can live up to the examples I give, which clearly shows that things are not going well. I have to say that Mr Kuzu is very much defending the inward movement, which is specific to this type of boarding school. I am very sorry about that, because I would like to open it all up. Mr Kuzu knows as well as I do that in private clubs other people are being talked about in a very different way and that the oppressive group pressure can create hostile ideas that are not in line with the equality of people. I can also give you many examples of this. I would have liked Mr Kuzu to be so brave as to speak openly about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u128	Of course, in every movement, every club and every organization, things don't go well in individual cases. I thought I had a supporter in the SP at this point. If something goes wrong in an organisation, we should not, of course, deal with that whole organisation and make it subject to special legislation. I thought I had a partner in the SP at this point, but apparently that is not the case. If something goes wrong in an organisation, it should not be the case that we are dealing with an entire organisation and that we are bringing an entire organisation under legislation. I thought I'd found a partner in the SP, but apparently that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u129	Unfortunately. Mr Kuzu does not care about these children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mrs Karabulut, I did not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u131	When I say that I stand for the future of our young people in this society, Mrs Karabulut can say that I do not care about these children, but I am trying to make a contribution here in which I say that I do care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u132	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u133	What I oppose is the double measure contained in the bill. Article 8 of the bill lays down the obligation for municipalities, the regulator, to visit the youth residences at least once a year. In addition, there is the possibility to carry out these visits in an unannounced manner. Why is this possibility offered at youth centres, when visits by the educational inspection are made on the basis of risk selection? I wonder why the mistrust of these organisations is so great that the possibility of unannounced visits is built into the system. Consultations with the industry organisation ECN and the Stichting Islamic Centrum Nederland, as well as the internet consultation, have shown that this issue is also felt difficult by stakeholders. They see the unannounced visit as an infringement of the privacy of a private residence. It also gives rise to feelings of insecurity among the young people staying in the accommodation. Insecurity among young people in residence; Mrs Karabulut should address this. Is the Minister prepared to remove the possibility of unannounced visits? Depending on the Minister's reply, we are considering tabling an amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u134	I have one question about this. When it comes to childcare, the D66 Group is of the opinion that more unannounced visits should take place at childcare facilities, because you will see it better on the spot. Mr Kuzu now says that these unannounced visits apply only to the youth residences. Can he back that up, because that's not my image, based on my experience in child care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u135	It does not apply to childcare, but it does apply to schools. Schools are announced to be visited. An appointment is being made, because we are dealing here with the privacy of children and their immediate environment. If an inspector comes in, they can feel like, "What's this gentleman doing here in this organization?" That could give you a sense of insecurity. I do not think that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u136	In my view, the principle of "equal monks, equal hoods" plays a very important role in the treatment of this law. I heard Mr Kuzu say at first that we are only doing this for the youth residences. I welcome the clarification and the fact that he is now saying that this also applies to childcare and after-school care. For me, it is a relevant fact that action is being taken on the basis of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u137	When it comes to the unannounced visit, I can agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. We also ask questions about the fact that youth residences, as private organisations, are imposed on similar criteria as, for example, boatmasters' internates. However, Schippers' internationaten receive a subsidy, namely €20,000 per young person who stays in the boarding school. This is not the case with youth accommodation. For the sake of clarity, I am not talking about parents being able to send their children to boarding school voluntarily, but it is true that, if you impose criteria similar to those applied to skippers' boarding houses, skippers' interns have much more opportunities to meet all the obligations arising from the legislation. Therefore, the burden is borne by youth accommodation, but they do not share the pleasures. As far as we're concerned, this is the purest form of double size. Is the Minister prepared to set up a fund to support youth residences in the piece of administrative burden they cannot bear? After all, they are mostly volunteers who have the banner within such an organisation. What is the possibility for organisations to comply with the proposed law? The contribution of the Government, the explanatory memorandum, shows that there is no transitional provision for this legislative proposal. It has only been communicated to the residences that there is an imminent change of law. However, there was a transitional provision in the case of amended grant provisions for boatmasters' quarters. Why was it chosen not to set this up for youth accommodation? Is the Minister prepared to do so after all? Does the Minister think that youth quarters have enough time to anticipate the forthcoming bill? Will the fact that supervision is carried out by municipalities not lead to arbitrariness in the area of transition? Is the Minister prepared to include a transitional provision in order to improve the ability of youth centres to anticipate this? Depending on the Minister's answers, we are also considering tabling an amendment on this point. I also have the fear that the legislative proposal will lead to great arbitrariness. The subjects of the quality requirements of the voluntarily agreed quality framework have been incorporated into the law and will be further developed in a General Measure of Governance, the decision at the youth residences. However, since supervision is to be carried out by the municipalities, there is a chance that each municipality will have a different interpretation. It is possible that a municipality considers provision A of greater importance than another municipality, while it is the same type of institution. It is therefore possible that a municipality with a particular political colour is more committed to certain provisions than other municipalities. There is also the possibility that different municipalities may have totally different interpretations of provisions. Mr Heerma has just pointed out that Alderman Hugo de Jonge from Rotterdam probably already loves the bill and is eager to intervene with his Livable colleagues. I have just given an example that has recently come to my attention: in Amsterdam, an exact same complaint procedure as in Rotterdam has been assessed differently. This does not give a clear picture of the requirements at the youth centres. The burden under penalty payment will also vary from one municipality to another. Youth centres can thus be confronted with politically-colored enforcement actions. This isn't the way we should be going, is it? Is the Minister aware that youth accommodation can thus be affected by the discretionary powers of municipalities? Isn't he afraid that this will worsen the relationships between municipalities and youth centers? Is the Minister prepared to restrict this discretionary power of municipalities in order to clarify youth accommodations? You do not expect unnecessary legislation from a cabinet with the VVD as a coalition partner, certainly not legislation that increases the regulatory burden. Youth centres should appoint a trusted person. That will be a structural cost. An amendment also lays down further requirements. Communities are indeed small. I wonder where these organisations are going to get the resources. Is the VVD prepared to make a financial effort? I will put that question in an interruption in the second term. Other administrative and organisational burdens are likely to arise from the development of the quality framework, especially as the practical impact of this law will vary from municipality to municipality. Municipalities are saddled with an additional supervisory task, including the minimum of one visit per year. The cost of this is estimated at €1,000 per visit. That could be more. Municipalities are not compensated for this from the Municipal Fund. How does the Minister justify that municipalities are not compensated for this? Why are municipalities burdened with these burdens if most of the youth establishments have already set up non-binding forms of control? Why should youth residences participate in formal control structures, while they participate in non-binding control by a majority? I am concerned that parental authority is being trampled on by this bill. Parents should have the freedom to send their children to any youth residence: youth accommodation with or without religious basis, youth accommodation with a Turkish-Dutch or Moroccan-Dutch signature or with an expat signature, provided that the law is not violated. I'm not even talking about this law, I'm talking about existing laws. This bill puts the institutions in the mould of the municipality. After all, the municipality is about the implementation of the law. Doesn't the Minister think we're passing parental authority this way? Does the Minister consider that this undermines the freedom of parents to raise their children as they wish? I'm rounding up. The proposal before us is not based on the conviction that the safety and health of children should be better guaranteed. The proposal is based on distrust of organisations that are doing very important work for many young people in our country. These organisations cannot be shown to be problematic and have recently been subject to voluntary control by a majority. This bill is not a stick behind the door to improve the situation but a stick to hit with, a stick to smack with, a stick to right Netherlands, with which right Dutch can beat away its frustrations, and a stick that can be used by municipalities in different ways, which puts youth homes and children sitting on youth homes into great uncertainty. Minister Asscher, on the right hand side, offers the Netherlands that stick. I'm disappointed with him, but it's not the first time I've been disappointed by anything from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u138	I wonder whether Mr Kuzu will not reach any other conclusions when he looks back at his contribution, bearing in mind the question "how do I separate my irritation at the tone of certain issues from the actual content of the legislative proposal?" In that context, I would like to ask him the following. Quality and supervision are agreed in the host care, in childcare, in education, in skippers' interns, in parent participation crèches, wherever children reside outside the family situation. If Mr Kuzu continues his line of mistrust, does he argue for it to be removed from there too, because mistrust would also be the reason to do so, or does he think it should not be only in these boarding schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u139	I always look back at my contributions. I try to improve myself every day to become a better person. I think everyone should do that. Of course, Mr Heerma is doing the same. I have tried to make it very clear in my speech that my mistrust is not based on the fact that there is a law that regulates the supervision of these organisations, but on the fact that the reasons and reasons for this legislative proposal are not based on facts. During my contribution, which I will of course listen back and look back, I have also mentioned a number of things that are not consistent and consistent. I tried to make that point during my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u140	The first part of Mr Kuzu's reply could imply that the correct legislative proposal is being drafted for the wrong reasons. Still, it is important to assess the content of the bill. Mr Kuzu stated in the second part of his reply that there were inconsistencies, but the design was in line with the design of the supervision of various institutions. Think of the supervision of the boatmasters' internships, but also of the education in which we do even more. In childcare much more is done when it comes to supervision and control, also by the municipalities and the GGD. Why did Mr Kuzu support it there as a member of the PvdA Chamber, after all, he has always supported it and does he not explicitly support it here? That's weird, isn't it? It is not surprising that Mr Van Weyenberg spoke in this context about 'equal monks, equal hoods'? If you look purely at the content of the bill, can it be supported by Mr Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u141	About my time at the PvdA, I won't make a statement. Maybe someday I'll write a book about that, but all right, that's all. During my contribution I made a very clear statement on which parts of the bill I do not think are consistent. Mr Heerma cites the boatmen's internationa as an example. If we impose the same or similar criteria on juvenile residences as on skippers' nationals, then I also believe that the government must ensure that youth accommodation can meet them. Is Mr Heerma therefore prepared to make a financial contribution? I have pointed out that school visits have been announced and unannounced. Those are things that go much further in this bill. I think I have a right to question that. I am asking questions about this to the Minister and I am also considering tabling amendments to that effect. In my view, these are very specific points of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u142	If Mr Kuzu does look back on his own contribution, I would ask him to count how often he addresses the issue of 'disloyal'. That's really amazing. It draws a bit of the tone of the contribution. I would like to suggest to Mr Kuzu that he take off the glasses of mistrust with which he looks at the bill and look at the bill through the glasses "what is in the interest of these children?" Is a quality system, some kind of security guarantee, necessary or not? He should then ask the question: does this bill meet this need, or does it meet this need to a significant extent? I would ask Mr Kuzu to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u143	The honourable Member of the SGP accuses me of looking suspiciously at this law. My whole plea has been that we here in the Chamber are suspicious of a group in our society and that we are making legislation and legislation on it. Mr Bishop should not blame me, a majority in this Chamber is distrustful of a number of organizations, and he is proposing a law to do so. As far as security is concerned: of course, you must have it. But I indicated in my contribution that we have a Youth Act and that the vast majority of the organisations involved have contributed to a voluntary monitoring framework that is just working well. I therefore ask Mr Bishop why such a law is needed. He himself has tabled a wonderful amendment on a piece of risk selection. Great, that's something we can support. But Mr Bishop should not blame me when the majority of this Chamber looks suspiciously at a group and legislates on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u144	To clarify, I have the following question. Mr Kuzu's whole speech points out that it is rightly based on the assumption that this bill is based on mistrust of the population he represents, or perhaps it is broader. My request to him is to change your glasses. For once, let's say that this bill is being treated out of mistrust, remember that this bill is being tabled in the interests of the children concerned and then look at this bill. Does this bill then meet the demands that we can reasonably make to ensure the safety of children? Indeed, it is very good if a voluntary model is to function where possible that should be maintained, but that is not contrary to this bill. It would be valuable if Mr Kuzu's group could find terms to say: yes, this also helps our supporters, this helps everyone in the Netherlands to ensure the safety of children. Then we finally get rid of that theme of mistrust. I strongly urge Mr Kuzu to look at this in this way. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u145	Of course, I'm willing to look at this issue with another pair of glasses. You are asking whether there are really no parts in this law that we can support. I am in favour of a complaint procedure, a pedagogical plan and an explanation of behaviour. At the same time, however, I note that I have not spoken on a number of articles in the law. I object to a number of points, such as a transitional provision. Why do we choose a piece of self-regulation in all sectors if it works well, but are we going to make legislation and regulation in this section? I would love to see the SGP replacing a number of self-regulation mechanisms in the pharmaceutical sector that are not working properly with legislation and regulation. But I don't hear the SGP about that. And then I would be suspicious of this proposal. Mr Bishop, you know better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u146	I do not think that was an answer to Mr Bishop's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u147	He asked so many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u148	I am always sensitive to the argument of equal monks, equal hoods. About unannounced entry, I have a different picture. I await the Minister's reply that this is quite common practice. I got that right. I have also noted the concerns about the inspection, on which Mr Bishop has tabled an amendment. But have I understood correctly to Mr Kuzu that if his concerns on this point are taken away by the Minister, he would have no objection as a matter of principle to including that in legislation? In other words, if the amendments tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Bishop succeed, he will support the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u149	I'm going to listen to the Minister very carefully. If he manages to convince me of the reason why it has gone into a mandatory nature by normalizing and regulating it in legislation rather than working with a voluntary supervisory framework, a voluntary quality framework, I could indeed consider supporting this. I am not looking at this society like some people here in the Chamber with a lot of resentment or politics or at this minister. I am concerned about the importance of the youth centres and the importance of the children. If the Minister accepts a number of points from us and a number of amendments, and convinces me that a mandatory nature is necessary in this matter, then I am happy to be convinced. However, it will take some time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-17-tweedekamer-3.u150	This brings to an end the first term of office. I note that the debate has taken a little more time than was foreseen. I also had the feeling that was necessary. That's why I allowed it. I have to say, however, that it is not possible to continue the debate today. I therefore propose that we suspend the debate now and try to find room in the agenda later this week to continue the discussion, so that you can also question him on some of the points that play in the Minister's term. I see there's no objection to that.
