ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. The first term of office was held in September. Now the Secretary of State for reply has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It has been quite a while since the Chamber had its say. Nevertheless, I will do my utmost to answer the questions put to me today. Maybe it's good to start with a few general remarks. The Dutch livestock sector has a strong economic position. We are a world player, but of course that is not always the case. The cabinet aims at an integrated approach to livestock farming. This is a livestock sector which is supported by society, with animal welfare as a priority, without prejudice to public health, where the environment is not affected and which fits in with the environment. At the same time, we are facing the global challenge of feeding 9 billion people by 2050: producing more with fewer raw materials.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	I see Mrs Thieme wants to interrupt, but I suggest that the Secretary of State finishes her introduction first. Shall we make a deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	That's good. The debate on the future of livestock farming should therefore not be simplified to the question of how many animals are allowed in a stable. The aim is to achieve market and chain-driven sustainability, leading consumers' and retailers' wishes. It is up to the livestock chains to implement this. Part of the integrated approach is to limit growth where it may be necessary from the point of view of public health, the environment, nature, quality of the environment, e.g. odour nuisance or landscape. That is what we must, want and can not only determine from The Hague. Partly for this reason, the cabinet has found it important to take account of differences in the structure and size of livestock farming. On the basis of the opinion of the Health Council, we consider it desirable to limit the number of animals in certain areas or the intensity of livestock farming in certain areas from the point of view of public health. We see that the current instruments do not always provide sufficient basis for this. That is why we have announced a legal framework. For this purpose, the Animal Law is amended. Many questions have been asked about the legislative proposal; I will come back to that later, but not too long, because I have a procedural proposal for it. Under this legal framework, provinces and municipalities in the areas where health risks relate to the presence of large numbers of animals may involve these numbers in their consideration. Since the beginning of September, of course, we have often discussed this issue. Mr Van Gerven's own-initiative paper, the budgetary treatment and the treatment of the Law on Responsible Growth in Dairy Farming has been discussed over and over again. I will answer the questions that have not yet been raised in those debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	The Secretary of State talks about social support for livestock farming: to what extent is that support available and how can that be determined? Last week, we read in De Gelderlander, among others, that since the entry into force of its new law, the PAS regulation, hundreds of farmers have been able to expand their business, even in nature reserves. Does the Secretary of State think that there is social support for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	The PAS has been adopted by the Chamber, but we still need to talk about the details of the PAS. I understand that the Chamber would like to discuss this with me at the end of February. Apart from that, there is, of course, always a discussion about whether and where farms can expand. This is subject to very strict rules, even now. It's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	The cabinet wants to be able to expand the farms that are already in progress with thousands of animals. This also means that there is an extension of nature reserves. The Secretary of State puts her signature underneath. How does this relate to the fact that 57% of Dutch people say: we do not want megasthals; we do not want livestock to increase? That was investigated by Ipsos, among other things, in the last summer. How does what the cabinet wants, namely the expansion of the livestock, relate to the resistance in society against mega-stables? There is a discrepancy in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mrs Thieme is actually confusing a lot of ingredients in her contribution. I think it would be wise in the answer to unravel them. Enlargement of farms, now and in the future, is and will continue to be subject to strict natural and environmental conditions. The beauty of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is precisely the fact that we are making additional investments to reduce the effects, for example, of the agricultural sector, on the environment. I hope that this will help to increase the support for economic growth in this sector, among others. Of course, we are also dealing with places where there is discussion. It is not just the expansion of farms that is being discussed. I often notice in my position that there is also very often a discussion about, for example, the nature policy I advocate. If we have the debate in this way, it will be difficult. The cabinet is just trying to make developments take place under responsible environmental rules with support from the residents, local residents, and in society. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	Can I just say a few words?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	No, Mrs Thieme, interruptions go in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	I come to a number of questions relating to the principles of intensive farming policy. Mr Bosman first stated that the Netherlands must provide efficient, high-productive and innovative agriculture with space to expand. He also found that farmers in the Netherlands comply with more animal welfare and environmental rules than elsewhere. I say with him that the Dutch livestock industry is indeed at the forefront of technology, animal health and animal welfare. On the contrary, given the leading position we have internationally, we must continue to be able to make use of these good opportunities. This must be done within the framework of public health, animal welfare and the environment. Mr Schouw said in his first term that he wanted to close the loops as much as possible. His group wants to make a transition to a new ecological agriculture in 2025. He said that the starting points for his group are closed systems, quality, sustainability and health. The question to me was whether the cabinet shares that ambition. The cabinet shares Mr Schouw's principles. We aim for a circular economy, open and transparent markets where market power is balanced across the chain. For my animal welfare policy, I naturally rely as much as possible on the natural behaviour of animals and the intrinsic value of the animal. In accordance with the coalition agreement, the cabinet embraces the approach of the business community in the report of the Van Doorn Committee and the Confederation of Den Bosch, which takes this necessary transition in an integral way. This is about promoting a strong economic sector that produces sustainable but within the framework of safe food, animal welfare and the environment. Of course, the efficient handling of raw materials and minerals will again be an important part of this. Mr Geurts asked how we could maintain livestock farming for the Netherlands. He has said that many farmers see that their income is under pressure. They have to deal with high demands, including from the government side. He has established that we should not in any case become dependent on other countries for our food. The Dutch livestock chains have a relatively strong economic position, and therefore also a good starting position. The cabinet also attaches importance to this top sector. This requires, for example, more cooperation in the chain, but also close cooperation between industry and government. This is certainly true at this time, when we see that some markets are closed and together, even for the longer term, we need to look for new markets in order to continue to offer our sector a perspective. Mr Van Gerven spoke of five points which were of interest to his group. The capacity of nature must not be exceeded, the capacity of people in the environment must not be exceeded, livestock farming must not pose a risk to public health, farmers must be able to earn a reasonable income and animals must be able to behave naturally. I believe that this is largely in line with the objective pursued by the cabinet in conjunction with the sector. This is also apparent from the beginning of my introduction. We can see, of course, that there are not always only great steps to be taken. There will always be discussion. I can see Mrs Thieme standing about whether we have reached the end of what is all possible. However, I must also note that, in the period I have been through, the sector has taken and will continue to take very large steps. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	However, we still have puffy chickens. Do I understand now that the Secretary of State is willing to help open up new markets for puffy chickens, so that we can also sell them in China, Vietnam, India and wherever in the world people are interested in Dutch puffy chickens? Do I understand that she is not just gonna get rid of the whole chicken industry and then get more sales in other countries? Before we become some kind of promoter of puffy chickens in China, I think it's good to have higher standards first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	Again, if you look at the way our animals are kept, and especially if you compare that with a country like China, you can see that our standards are already much higher. And indeed, the standards are getting even higher. For example, we have agreed for the poultry sector that we will reduce the number of interventions in livestock farming by 2018. Mrs Thieme has also contributed to this. This sector is working again on standards that are not yet being met in some other European countries, and I am also working to do so, especially in several Asian countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	Those who mirror themselves to others are softly mirrored. The Secretary of State knows that as well as I do. It is our own responsibility and the way we deal with animals here. The Secretary of State says that it is important for her that the natural behavior of animals can be shown. We know this is not the case with puffy chickens. How can it, with trade missions, become the promoter of the marketing of puff chickens in countries such as China? I can't reach that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	Again, if you look at the Dutch livestock sector, we can see that we are far beyond many other countries in terms of animal welfare. I think even Mrs Thieme will see that with me. We can also determine together that we are not yet there. In the meantime, I think it is justified that we should play a role in making sales possible at a time when there is demand elsewhere in the world for high-quality, good products, from the knowledge that we are doing well in the Netherlands and want to do even better. The initiatives to do even better come largely from the sector itself, and above all we need to support them further. But we can only do that if we also make the money to get it done. I'll stay with Mrs Thieme for a while. It indicated that only 14% of the Dutch are for economies of scale. She said we should stop doing that. I have already said in my introduction that the debate on the future of livestock farming should not be simplified to the question: how many animals are in a stable? A comprehensive approach to the sustainability of livestock farming is needed. Part of this is the limitation of growth where it is needed, for example from the point of view of public health, the environment or nature. On certain points, however, we would like to take account of regional differences, for example. In my opinion, it is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	The Secretary of State says she thinks it's important to respect regional differences. To someone with asthma in Someren, where 17,000 people live and 2.5 million animals are kept every year, I cannot explain that he enjoys less protection against particulate matter from livestock farming than someone in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	Of course, environmental legislation is not about regional differences. But you can see it when it comes to, for example, the relationship between animal numbers and public health and the distance between the inhabited world and the companies. However, until now, we have not been able to establish scientifically substantiated what would then be a sensible standard. In the Netherlands, the way in which our country is set up, we see great differences. There are very densely populated areas, there are very sparsely populated areas. You can imagine that in those latter areas there may be more room for certain developments than in the former. You can imagine that in areas where there is less vulnerable nature, for example, there can be more than in other areas. That's how I'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	Surely the Secretary of State can only agree with me that this will give you a huge difference in the level of protection? If you happen to live in a municipality where you are a bit more flexible at municipal level and are a bit more positive towards megasthals, you can enjoy less protection there than if, for example, you live in a municipality such as Amsterdam or outside in Noord-Holland, where you are a bit more strict and more reluctant with regard to megasthals. It's terrible that that can make such a big difference in terms of protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	The example you are using is wrong, because the protection, for example from environmental legislation, is the same for everyone. That's not what this is about. We have explicitly sought regional differences in a legislative proposal that I have yet to discuss, for example in relation to the transfer of zoonoses to humans and the possibility of it. In doing so, you can also take into account what the environment looks like. In the end, however, it is true that, for example smell and all kinds of other environmental legislation, the frameworks are, of course, leading. You can't go shopping in there from the board. Mr Klaver wondered whether it was not necessary to reduce livestock by 2050. As I said, we have a global task, not only from the Netherlands, to feed 9 billion people. We see an increase in the demand for animal proteins, particularly in Asia and South America. This does not in advance require a shrinkage of livestock, but a careful and sustainable livestock farming. We are also committed to a transition towards sustainable livestock farming, which takes into account all the elements I have just mentioned. Of course, we also like to have an eye for a good earning model. This can also mean that, for example, if you have a lot of overproduction in a market, that puts pressure on the income model of farmers. So from an economic point of view, too, we will have to look for a sustainable model in that transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	Do I now understand the Secretary of State that her strategy is to contribute to world food demand in 2050 by producing meat here that we should transport to Southeast Asia and South America as she says? How does this export, which it envisages, fall within the theme of sustainability which it is talking about, the theme of sustainable production? I don't understand. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	Perhaps these are more answers in one, because the longer-term strategy for feeding the world is to get climate smart agriculture under way all over the world. This means that we are going to produce more, but with the use of half of the raw materials. This will have to be dealt with both within livestock farming and in agriculture and horticulture. The Netherlands, in particular, has great opportunities for exporting knowledge. That will also be the building block on which our economy will drive in the future, because you will see that with our knowledge in countries that have a lot of acres of space, much more than the Netherlands, we literally have gold in our hands. At the same time, today, and no doubt tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, there is also demand for Dutch products, such as meat. I spoke to people from the pig sector this afternoon. We Dutch eat quite a lot of pork, but not nearly everything from the pig. It would be very strange if we did not value the parts that we do not eat, for example, the ears. That would be really unsustainable. Here or elsewhere in Europe, we only eat part of the pig, but we can actually value that whole animal. An economist I recently encountered on the Internet calls it "square values." For this, it is sometimes necessary that you export parts of a product to elsewhere, because we simply don't want to eat them, for example because it doesn't fit in our culture to eat pork ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	That was a comprehensive answer, but even more precisely the question I asked was not about residual products, to the extent that you can speak of them, which we export. Nor have I mentioned the importance of exporting knowledge. Exporting knowledge to the rest of the world seems to me very sensible, also economically, and we deserve it most. I'm talking about dragging the pork chops that far around the world. Is that the government's strategy now, namely to ensure that the Netherlands' market share in this area is increased? That is my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	I note that the question from these countries is simply there. My question to Mr Klaver would be: are you the one to stop it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	I'd rather not have the Secretary of State ask MPs questions. This is because it has a major disadvantage that they also want to respond. I call Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	I would like to encourage the Secretary of State to do so; I welcome this question. The answer is: yes, I would like to do something about that, because you don't always have to meet every question. As a country, you have to ask yourself how you want to strengthen your economy. This concerns not only what is economically sensible, but also the question of what moral and ethical limits it fits within. In the Netherlands, we slaughter 500 million animals a year. I don't think it's appropriate that there should be any more, to be able to export them to thousands of miles from here. I don't think this is sustainable by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	I note that in the Netherlands too, the meat sector produces the meat in a way that is top of the bill in terms of sustainability. In addition, I note that many of these sectors are now also considering whether the volume of current production is economically sustainable in the longer term. Consideration is also being given to whether we should stop looking for quality exports, where animal welfare and environmental standards are being explicitly used to sell meat elsewhere across borders. Indeed, that will not be a product for every demand from all those countries, because as a consumer you must be prepared to pay the price for it literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	What is sustainable, what is not sustainable? What's significant, what's not significant? Never has one ruler been able to give me an answer to that. Pork ears are already consumed by animals. The animal wholesalers are full of them. My question was this. I have tabled a motion for a better income model for farmers, gardeners and fishermen. It was unanimously supported by the entire Chamber. Now I hear the Secretary of State say: we have an eye for it. No, the Secretary of State simply needs to carry out a motion supported by the entire Chamber. I asked for this in my first term. I don't want the Secretary of State to get rid of it so easily, in the vein of "I have an eye for it." I want to know what's going to happen. Are the rich, powerful, almost monopolistic retailers finally being dealt with? That's where the pain is. Farmers have not received much more money for their eggs, their milk for decades, and you name it all. It's the retailers and the grandgrutters who take the big money. That's not fair. We impose animal welfare standards on farmers. They must be rewarded, not punished. The retailers just have to bleed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	Of course, we are going to carry out that motion. Of course, I've already started that. I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Graus that it is very important that our farmers receive a fair price for their product. That's something you can sometimes enforce with laws and regulations, but not always. This is particularly true in this case. I also spoke with my colleagues from abroad about how they deal with this debate. This will mainly result in the exertion of political pressure, including on the retail sector, as Mr Graus said. Be assured I will. The Chamber received a letter from me this morning about the stunting of meat and the price of meat. I will also discuss this with the supermarkets at the end of this month. I feel that this is supported by the motion adopted by the Chamber, in which, on the basis of this model of income, the Chamber has established that the farmer must be given a fair price.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mrs Thieme's fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	Further on, Mr Graus has absolutely a point, because that motion has still not been implemented. The Secretary of State promised in September 2013 that she would talk to the retailers about a better price for farmers. Last week we read in the newspapers that the Secretary of State says once again that we should get rid of the kilo-bullers, but then I think: what actually happened in those year and a half? Is it just a moral appeal to please pay a fair price to the farmer, or are we really going to do something? Unethically low prices are still being paid and also the stunting with meat continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	I do not agree with Mrs Thieme that nothing has happened in that year and a half. I would like to list what actions the cabinet has already taken to show that we are taking Mr Graus' motion extremely seriously. We do not live in a centrally managed planning economy and I cannot simply force the price paid for a product from the Department of Economic Affairs at the push of a button, even with legislation. I do believe that Mrs Thieme is not acting like this is how the world works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	In Germany, there is an obligation to demonstrate that the minimum costs are included in the price. Germany really does not have a centrally managed planning economy, so it seems to me that we need to look much more at such examples. We must play a leading role in this, because we are basically the milk farmer and the butcher of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	It's a good thing Mrs Thieme says that. I spoke to my German colleague Christian Schmidt about this because I was curious as to whether it would work. Actually, the answer was that it's a hopeless thing. The mere determination of what a minimum purchase price is, leads to so much division that it seems that the German Government has wanted to send a signal earlier, but that it is not an effective instrument. For this reason, I note that it is a lot more repulsive than Mrs Thieme has suggested here. I had the conversation with him from a sincere interest and curiosity about the operation of that measure, but I came home from a cold carnival.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	I'm referring to the Secretary of State's story about meat-smacking. Exactly what stunts with meat means is a very difficult to define concept. When are we talking about stuns? The kilo-blaster is called, and that's worrying, because what are we talking about? You will read the stories of Wake Dier, but the Secretary of State himself writes in her letter that it is indefinable. It is very difficult to talk about this kind of thing and I am very concerned about it. At the moment there is zooming in on one article in the supermarket, but why only on this article? Why not on many more items for which pricing could take place at other levels? This is a sliding scale. We very much zoom in on one article and then discuss the price mechanism. There really are more articles in a supermarket that we can talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	Yes, but this article is not just an article, because it is of course a matter of course, and we have discussed it more often in the Chamber in the past year, and it can be linked to the way in which you deal with the production of meat and with how you ensure that this continues to be done in an honest way. Unfortunately, as a country, we have had to deal with a number of food scandals, also related to meat, which we would rather not have. The prize has always played a role in this. If you make sure that a good price can be earned in that chain, then of course the pressure to cheat becomes less great. We may not have to answer this with legislation, because I agree that this is becoming too complicated; that has just emerged from the little debate on the interruption. But I do think we should say something about this, from a moral point of view which the Chamber also has on the issue of the income model in the sector. It is then up to the sector itself and, in this case, the retail sector to take responsibility for this. I expect them to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	So I can assume that there will be no legislation on all kinds of pricing? After all, we have just heard in the interrupting debate that this is also very difficult to control in Germany. The Secretary of State himself just said that we are doing very carefully in the Netherlands. We're leading the world. Then it is a consequence of what eventually ends up in the shop, of course, having a price mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yes, but I also notice in my conversations with the farmers, for example, that it is not always that simple. For example, they're working on tomorrow's pig. This raises the question of whether we really want to pay for all the efforts we are going to make to bring animal welfare to an even higher level and to do even better in environmental terms. This question applies not only to the pork chop we eat here, but also to the rest of the animal, to meat that goes elsewhere. It's a discussion. Indeed, it is not possible for the government to provide an answer to this by means of legislation. I do not intend to, but you can have a moral view of this from a political point of view and exert political pressure on the players to do what I think is right with each other. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ondertussen hebben we de pilot Gedragscode eerlijke handelspraktijken en hebben we de Autoriteit Consument en Markt (ACM) gevraagd op te kijken naar de prijsvorming in de keten.]] We also sent the result to the Chamber. We have the food price monitor of LEI Wageningen UR, which keeps track of how food prices develop on a monthly basis. So we're doing everything we can to get the market to do its job, but it's the market itself that has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is very brave and very much appreciated that the Secretary of State raises the issue of kilo-bullers at the beginning of this new political year. Compliments for that. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says: my approach is actually that I sit around the table with the biggest supermarket entrepreneurs and see if I can make arrangements with them, such a beautiful covenant that they always want, to stop stunting meat prices? Is that about the Secretary of State's commitment? My group would very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	Stop stunting meat prices. Do I understand why the Secretary of State says: do I really want to reach firm agreements with the sector itself before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	It is an effort and not an obligation to achieve results, because once again Mr Schouw has clearly heard this in my reply to Mr Bosman. I cannot force it. It's not something you do by law either, but I want to have that conversation with the supermarkets themselves, and not with the industry organisation, by the end of this month. I hope and expect that they will decide on their own that meat-price stunners are not the route they want to continue. I have already had the impression in the Chamber that the groups agree with that. They have seen together that it is very important that there should also be a good price in that chain. We also see that certainly this product has proved vulnerable if that good price is not at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	I find the initiative of the Secretary of State very commendable. I'm totally behind that. I think it's complicated. After all, we all want a fair price in the chain, but we also see supermarkets offering products with the aim of letting consumers buy other products. So that one-on-one relationship between kilo-shooters and pressure in the chain doesn't seem to be there. However, I know that this situation is often raised and I think it is important that it be addressed, if only because meat represents a value that may be reflected in the price. However, we have been talking for years to deal with this. The Secretary of State has made a moral appeal and I believe that motions have also been adopted by the Chamber, with which there has been political pressure. What gives the Secretary of State the confidence that this time we will come out with the supermarkets? In fact, it is a view of politics, of ourselves as representatives of the people, of the price policy of supermarkets. I find that very complicated. I think we can have a view on that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	Why does the Secretary of State think that the supermarkets are now going to account for this when they have not done so in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	The answer to this question is a little more complicated. In the past year there have been initiatives from the supermarkets to look together with people in the chain at a different way of producing meat, for example. It is therefore not black and white in the sense that they are only on one side in this discussion, namely the promotion of a low price. Some things need time, as it turns out. I think that the supermarkets are now very much aware of what is being thought of in society. The supermarkets rightly note that someone who is being surveyed and asked "do you have a certain price for animal welfare?', not always reacts the same as the consumer at the cash register. At least we can do a lot about that in the discussion. Again, it is not the case that the government can set prices in companies or supermarkets. It is complicated, as Mrs Dik-Faber rightly said. That's really something we're not talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	I continue to have great hesitations about the success the Secretary of State wants to book at the end of this month. I want to give her all the confidence and political support, but I don't think we're gonna get there. We have previously proposed a ban on sales below cost. The Secretary of State has said that this cannot be done, also because of European rules. The German example has just been discussed in the debate. That is not desirable either. What's between that moral appeal and the measures, the cost ban? What else is there to talk to the supermarkets?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	I think it is important that you stand here and say what you think, and then we do it with each other. I think that whatever is heard in society leads to the best result. Eventually, when they vote with their feet literally, consumers will make the call, including on the retail floor. That's how it works. That awareness-raising process is absolutely ongoing. You can also see that there is an increasing demand for meat that has been produced sustainably. We do well in the Netherlands. I think that we are getting one step further in this discussion every time. However, I do not have the key to the solution in my hands. I don't have one. I'm standing here and with what I'm contributing, I'm gonna have to do it. I welcome the open support for this. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	I thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions so quickly. We have had those answers this morning and we have been discussing the content for half an hour now. The questions have shown that there is still a report from the Authority Consumer & Market. In the media, a number of people have indicated that this report is making our agriculture more sustainable. This concerns price fixing. Could the Secretary of State comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	No, I can't. It's like you say, it's still floating somewhere. I think it's a good thing it's gonna stay that way for a while too. When it finally lands and leads to conclusions, I think it would be wise to have a discussion with the Chamber on this. Moreover, my commitment is clear and well-known and equal to yours: we must offer maximum scope for making our sector more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	Of course, it's always hard to talk about a report you haven't read. I have to do it on the basis of what I hear from the media. This is an important point. We are talking this afternoon about making intensive livestock farming more sustainable, but this includes earning. The Secretary of State has rightly said that the element of earning is important. Otherwise, you cannot shape sustainability. When does the Secretary of State think that the report will come to the Chamber so that we can have a good discussion about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	I'm afraid to put that out of my mind, because I'm not the one who's drafting the report. It's in the hands of others. I depend on them. So I can't report this like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	I share the concerns of Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union, who is wondering whether we will manage to get a covenant with the supermarkets about stunting meat. The reaction of the supermarkets to the State Secretary's statements was not amiss. They were angry because the Secretary of State told us to get rid of the kilo guns. I've read the response, and the Secretary of State will have done the same. The supermarkets in fact deny that there is stunting with meat and that this would be unethical. If you don't share the problem analysis, how can you come to a solution together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u53	When I see that I want to enter into the conversation with the supermarkets, I think it is right to do so not over the heads of the supermarkets through the Chamber, but to limit this to the moment when I am facing the people. I will then respond live to their response, not through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u54	The Secretary of State has spoken to the supermarkets for a year and a half. This is how she wants the Chamber to believe. I would very much like to believe that, but the supermarkets are now reacting like the Secretary of State for the first time. The Secretary of State will be able to imagine that I am very concerned that the supermarkets do not even recognise that there is a problem with meat prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u55	Again, I'd like to have the conversation with them. I will do so in the short term. Then I'll hear what their content is. They want the data of Wake Animal to be made public. I agree with them. I would therefore like to call on Wake Dier to make his report public, so that everyone can speak freely about it. Then we can have that debate. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u56	One of the reasons that can be stunted with meat is that the supply is huge. We can see that there must be a bottom price, that there must be agreements and that there must be no banging with all those kilos, but that does not alter the problem that there are too many pigs on the market in the Netherlands. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u57	That too is not something we can just pick up from the government. The sector itself, especially pig farms, under the motto Recipe for Sustainable Pork, is very carefully considering what the future should be like. In their view, this should be an ecologically responsible future, with animal welfare playing an important role, but also an economically responsible future. In view of all the discussions we are having today, I do not think it is wise to anticipate this at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u58	I think this is one of the things the Secretary of State should want to take with her when she talks about how farmers get a right price on the market. For example, the Secretary of State could consider whether the stopper regime should not even be dealt with more quickly. With such matters, the Secretary of State has instruments in his hands to help the sector get back to health, because he is not now, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u59	But once again, the sector itself is now working on it. They picked up the glove. I know your views. You have also received a motion for a resolution on this matter. I would like to say: let's see what people come up with first. We are also supporting it from EZ. I had a very good talk this afternoon, including with the sector, to see how we can take further steps. All these elements are, of course, also part of the discussion on behalf of the Chamber, but let me not anticipate the outcome at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u60	I think it's a little too easy. Every time it is said in the Chamber that you should see how we can get rid of those kilo-bullers, the Secretary of State says: we do not live in a centrally managed planning economy. She doesn't say, "If you want to, go to China." She shows: it can't be done, and as Secretary of State, I don't really have any influence on that. That's not entirely true, is it? When it comes to competition and legislation, politics, as well as the Secretary of State, simply have instruments in their hands to make choices. When it comes to restricting supply, you could introduce animal rights. My question to the Secretary of State is: why is she so passive in this dossier and only wants to work together and continue to believe that the market is going to solve it? The market has not so far done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u61	I do not think it is a pity, as I know Mr Klaver, that he does so little justice to my efforts and views in this contribution. We have just found, thanks to Mrs Thieme, that the supermarkets were already very angry about what I said. Apparently that meant something, because otherwise you won't get angry. This also means that people do feel the pressure. I will start that conversation, but at the same time I would like to emphasise that we have done a number of things, that we are working on a code of fair commercial practices and that we have asked the ACM to look at the prices. We have also noted that some of the proposals raised in other countries do not have the desired effectiveness. And indeed: we cannot set prices in supermarkets from The Hague. That's not because I want to get rid of it, because it's a very complicated issue, but that's just a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u62	This is really social democracy from the 1990s, if you have complete confidence and faith that the market solves it when you enter the conversation. Why does this Secretary of State not take more steps to ensure that these farmers can become more market power? This also ensures that the market eventually comes up with a solution, but then the government makes an active contribution to it. That's not happening right now. It remains that belief in the market. In recent years, the Secretary of State has had a conversation, but nothing changes. That's the problem. This is the recipe of the nineties, and we live in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u63	I think Mr Klaver thought in advance that he wanted to use that label at some point, but it doesn't stick. Why not? That's because it's not just about believing in the market. It is also about the belief that people have to do certain things. That's what we've been recording. The current standards for meat production, for example, are incomparable with those of many decades ago. We have taken steps over and over again in recent years. The question now is whether a real price is being paid for all those steps that have already been taken. A great deal has happened on this point since my arrival, and the last word will not have been said about it, even as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u64	I have already heard Mr Bosman in this round of interruptions, but let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to point out that sometimes supermarkets can get very angry when they are wronged. That can also make you very angry, especially if there's information coming out that you don't know what she means. The Secretary of State himself says: although the results of the investigation are not verifiable for her. That is very worrying, also for supermarkets. It is therefore essential that this cabinet assumes that you have verifiable numbers and data, which can also be traced back to supermarkets, consumers and the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State verify the numbers and possibly send them to the Chamber in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u66	First of all, I think it is important that the person who conducts the investigation is also prepared to reveal his research. Then we can all do it ourselves. I think that's good for the conversation, too. I think it is a good thing that, if there is criticism and supermarkets say that it is wrong, people are also able to explain why not. By the way, as we have to note, you do not have to be all of yesterday to find out that meat is actually stunted in supermarkets. Of course, as a consumer, you can see that without these civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u67	But then we come back to the discussion about what stunts with meat is. I think it would be wise for the cabinet to be reluctant to make statements towards the supermarkets and towards the sector and to assume what we all know about what is and when this is the case. If we want to do further business, we will do so on the basis of verified data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u68	Sometimes you have to be reluctant and sometimes you have to talk. You have to do that the moment you think it's necessary. I did. I'm not taking back any of that either. However, I note with Mr Bosman that it would be good if it became verifiable. Wake-up Animal can contribute to that. People are convinced that the number of stunt items has increased. I have no reason to believe that this is not true. If the public debate is sparked by them, then they must also be prepared to share their data in public. I hope and also expect them to be willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u69	I very much agree with that. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about the ACM. How important does she think it is? She said something about it in the interrupting debate with Mr Geurts. However, I would like to hear a little more detail from the Secretary of State. On the one hand, she says: the market must do it. On the other hand, she makes a moral appeal. In between, however, is it not true that the Secretary of State may, for example, have interpretations of competition rules? For example, it can draw up guidelines. Isn't there a button in there that the Secretary of State can play at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u70	That's right. We have already done so at the request of Mr Dijkgraaf. We have already considered, in consultation with the ACM, whether we could give more room for sustainability and the concept of "animal welfare" in the rules of the game. We are also dealing with European directives. So at some point it might be necessary to debate not only internally, in our own country, but also in the European Commission to raise this issue. I'm willing to do that, too. I have to do that with my minister. After all, it is Minister Kamp who is responsible from the cabinet for competition issues. So that's what we're gonna have to do together. However, at the request of Mr Dijkgraaf, we have already shown not only that button but also that button.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u71	The Secretary of State has said before that she is seeking the maximum rack and space available within international regulations. If necessary, it will increase it through Brussels, she said. So that must be done through Brussels, but does the Secretary of State still support the use of the maximum rack and space available?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u73	Very nice. We've come to the end of a long interruption lap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u74	I'm trying to speed up now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u75	You take the words out of my mouth, because we are having a big debate tonight on the attacks in Paris. A number of directors will be present. So we cannot continue this debate for very long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u76	Both Mr Van Dekken and Mr Klaver spoke about the Brabant approach. They have asked whether there is also a possibility to consult and cooperate with the provinces. Several provinces, not only North Brabant but also Gelderland and Limburg, have established or are working on sustainability plans. The advice and approach of the Van Doorn Committee are always the starting point. This consultation is already partly there, at least with, for example, North Brabant, where we look at how we can further support each other. That seems to me to be a good starting point in itself. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether we should not seek regionalisation of livestock farming in Europe. She also felt that we should think about the post-2020 policy. As indicated in the cabinet position of 14 June, we are seeking to strengthen livestock farming and also to improve substantially everything that has already been started in the area of sustainability. That's what the coalition agreement says. Businesses are also taking steps. Of course, the animal feed sector must also contribute to this. We are taking an active part in this discussion. In recent months, of course, we have had a number of exchanges on this subject. A lot of questions have been asked about the draft law on intensive livestock farming and public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u77	The Christian Union is a warm advocate of regionalisation of food production. In our view, the model whereby we import food for animals from South America, breed up our animals and then export the meat to Saudi Arabia is not sustainable in the long term. One of the components of that chain is the import of soya from South America. We have seen that some of the agreements made with the sector are not being complied with. The dairy farm will do fine. I have held a motion, on which the Secretary of State says: I am going to have the conversation with the other sectors to see how we can keep these agreements. What's the status?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u78	It's still going on. That's tricky. I think Mrs Dik-Faber knows that, too. However, we are talking to them about this. I have already indicated that I think it is important that the steps that should be taken should also be taken. This means that we have to look at what is possible and precisely where the problem lies with individual sectors. Part of it is also about price. The feed is more expensive when it is certified. This must be taken into account in the chain. That conversation's on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u79	When does the Secretary of State expect to be able to inform the Chamber about this? If this also has to do with prices, isn't it a good idea to put this problem on the shelf of the supermarkets if the Secretary of State does speak to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u80	I don't think I should be tying things up right now. That could be one of the reasons why you come up with a full basket and finally come home with nothing. I think I can inform the Chamber in three months. I always have to take into account the smaller government and the capacity of my people. So that's gonna be three months from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mrs Dik-Faber said that the agreements on the sustainability of animal feed were not being complied with. It is now the case that the sector also fails to comply with the agreement to stop the unsedated castration of piglets at 100% by 1 January 2015. These are two examples that show that the market is failing again and that they are holding each other in a stranglehold because of all kinds of deals that one has to make with abroad, including Germany, which does not want to take bear meat. These are all things that clearly show the market that it can't do without a good market master. Is the Secretary of State prepared to simply ban something that is so controversial and unethical, namely the unsedated castration of piglets, now that the sector has failed and does not stop castrating piglets on 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u82	This is a completely different subject. I would not like to go into this now. I believe, in fact, that it is clear that a lot of steps are being taken from the sector to convince other countries of the same methods of not only improving welfare in this area but also facilitating the sale of meat. We discussed this again at the animal welfare summit, for example with the Danes. To be honest, I think it would be inappropriate for me to report on this subject unprepared. I'd rather do that at another time and better documented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u83	I can imagine. On the other hand, these two examples are just being posted here because the Secretary of State says very strongly that the market must do it. The Chamber now comes up with two examples that show that the market is failing, although it has good intentions and promises us every time that it will be better, more sustainable and more animal-friendly. There are many examples that show that it is not working to leave it to the sector itself. I therefore ask again whether the Secretary of State is prepared to review the extent to which there should not be a stronger role for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u84	You can say that the market fails to improve animal welfare and sustainability, but I would never do that. I do not think that is true. It is true that sometimes problems arise because you have ambitions that you do not fulfill at the promised moment. Then you can say that ambition must be achieved either way, left or right, or you can help to provide a solution that will make things easier. On this file, the government has long supported the discussion. We are bringing this whole issue, with which we are already very far, across the border, to countries such as Germany and Denmark. This will increase the acceptance of these countries to do the same. The Danes have been here with a high official delegation to see how it will be done in the future. This indicates that sometimes behind the scenes, including with the support of EZ, much more happens than Mrs Thieme might think. Then I'll get to the bill. To make a long story short: there are ten pages of answers I could give to questions about the bill announced. These often come down to the same thing. Here's what I'm asking you. This bill is not before your Chamber right now. We have done something very modern: we have organised an internet consultation. This means that Jan and alleman were consulted over the internet last summer about what has been presented. So everyone has an influence on it. I'm talking to the IPO, the VNG and all kinds of people from the sector. The Council of State will also look at the bill. We all take the advice very seriously and I can assure you that what has been consulted on the Internet is not the bill that you will eventually see. I think it would be better if I didn't get ahead of this and answer all sorts of questions like that. I suggest that we submit the bill to you after we have walked the entire route we normally follow. Then I think we have all the time in the world to discuss it with each other. Then I can put this not insignificant pile right next to me. It's just a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u85	At least that saves a lot of time. There is indeed another bill coming. The Secretary of State sketches an orderly path. I can support that. Is this also part of the fact that the Secretary of State is consulting with the VNG and the IPO before submitting the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u86	Yes. That's what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u87	That is good, because until now the complaint was from that angle that people did not feel taken seriously enough. I say "felt," because whether it's a fact or not, we can't determine. If these organisations are involved seriously enough, we will get a legislative proposal here at some point and then we can ask our questions. These will probably be other questions and other answers. That seems like an orderly course to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u88	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u89	As we indicated in our first term, this debate is indeed a little premature. That is why we fully support the Secretary of State's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u90	It's gonna be some sort of order debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u91	The Secretary of State says, "All the time in the world." However, I would not like to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u92	Maybe that's a little spacious. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u93	In fact, I think we are looking forward to finally getting a clear picture of the extent to which mega-stables remain possible in the Netherlands. I understand, however, that an orderly examination of the bill on megasthals is absolutely preferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u94	We agree with the Secretary of State's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u95	We agree, too. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the proposal will be sent to the Chamber before the state elections or after?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u96	If it works, it'll come in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr. Geurts is just coming back from vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u98	We'd like to come back for that, too. We think it is an extremely important subject and look forward to dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u99	It's fine. We agree with the Secretary of State's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u100	Fine. For the sake of completeness, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u101	The Christian Union also joins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u102	That's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u103	Thank you very much. Let me now turn to the final part of my contribution in the first term. There are a few questions I would like to answer. Mr Van Gerven wonders how we can ensure that 95% of meat is produced without a health mark. All farms producing meat must comply with the legal requirements for responsible production, environmental safety and animal welfare. Boring through chain quality systems is important. We have recently seen problems with furazolidone in animal feed. We have discussions on this, which is still going on with the people involved in the chain. In this respect, we will have to go even more farther in order to ensure that everyone abides by the rules. Those rules are there, but this is also a matter of doing what is expected of you. As has been noted, the NVWA is increasingly acting very firmly when companies fail to comply with the rules. Mr Graus and Mr Geurts have drawn attention to the possibility of people from abroad, such as Chinese investors, taking over livestock farming in our country. It is well known that large investors invest in, among other things, agriculture, because they apparently see this as a profitable investment, which may have to do with the scarcity of raw materials. In the Netherlands, livestock farming traditionally involves its resources from family capital and bank capital. I can't look behind bank capital, but I do have a bit of a picture of what's going on right now. There is still a bank that is not unknown to Mr Geurts who continues to finance a significant part of the sector. So I do not have the impression that large-scale companies are being taken over by foreign investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u104	I didn't mean the Chinese so much as the Russians. I have given the example of Austria, where I sometimes make work visits, because there are a number of example farmers there. Those peasants are terrified of the Russians buying away all the hotels and other things. That's our great fear, too. We believe that the farms and the land should remain in the hands of our centuries-old family and family businesses. I am deeply concerned about the future of this former Hollandish company, written with
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u105	Again, I really have no indication that this is the case in the Netherlands, also because our livestock farming and our agricultural sector have traditionally been characterized by the many family farms. People have grown strong from these family businesses. They also want to continue. This is not always easy, because there are too few young farmers. For this reason, the Chamber always hunts me wide and rightly so to do everything possible for young farmers. The knowledge and craftsmanship that are present in our farming families are also not easily replaced by people from outside. I therefore believe that we should continue to reason for the strength of the sector and not be afraid, because without our people it will be a lot more difficult to continue producing at the present level. I think we agree on that. From tomorrow onwards, we will carry that out together outside our borders. Mr Graus also spoke of air-washers, who, in his view, are sometimes unnecessarily imposed by Brussels. I don't agree with him, but maybe he expected that. Air scrubbers reduce the emissions of particulate matter and ammonia and prevent odour pollution. They are of great value, even in the sustainability of livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mr Graus also wishes to see the word 'air scrubbers' included in the Acts. I'm just passing it along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u107	Then we will also pronounce it "air washers." Last but not least, I come to Mr Schouw. He asked a question about the so-called plus stables. The rules apply to all new buildings from 2015. It's a measurable and checkable goal. It also fits in with a natural investment moment. The percentages have been established through careful consideration with all partners in the Sustainable Cattle Implementing Agenda. Of course, what is feasible has been looked at. That's important. Monitoring is carried out on an annual basis, taking into account the number of new buildings. Now of all stables, new and existing, 10% is integrally sustainable. That's going to be 12% this year. So the percentage goes up. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you very much for that. We're moving on to the second term. Speaking time shall be two minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr. Chairman. I have heard the Secretary of State say that it is very logical to leave the entire mega-station policy to provinces and municipalities. She didn't think it was that logical when she was a Member of Parliament, because then she wanted it to be regulated nationally. She was absolutely right about that. I look forward to the debate on the mega-stables when the bill is sent to the Chamber. We need to move towards sustainable agriculture. The debate on this cannot take place without discussing the reduction of livestock and the extent to which this has a positive impact on nature and the environment and leads to a better income model and better quality products. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the size of the Dutch livestock has implications for achieving national and European nature and environmental objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out research into how reduction of livestock can contribute to improving the Dutch position in relation to national and European nature and environmental objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u110	In recent years, real animal welfare improvements have been achieved through legislation and not through the market. The market fails by count, not only in terms of the sustainability of animal feed, but also in terms of agreements on the castration of pigs. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the agreement to stop castration of pigs by 1 January 2015 is not complied with;]] [[Calls on the Government to prohibit the castration of pigs from 1 January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u111	I understand that the Secretary of State would like to look into a response to the fact that that agreement has not been fulfilled. If the Secretary of State can indicate when she will respond, I am prepared to hold my motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. It is always what separate when the first term of the Chamber and the first term of the government are so far apart. It is an important subject that we have not yet been able to discuss. I think we'll cross swords more often than not. Just now, the Secretary of State responded somewhat cattyly to a remark from me about the 19th thought: leaving everything to the market. However, I believe that this is at the heart of the problem. Maybe the reaction came from that, too. We are at the heart of the issue of the role that the government has to play in serving the public interest. I see the Secretary of State's efforts to improve with the sector, but I also see that these efforts are not achieving sufficient results. The kilobulbs still exist, when we're all trying to eradicate them. This means that the Secretary of State and politics should play a more active role in this. For example, we need to look at the competition rules. Instead of considering how to reach agreements with supermarkets, for example, we could also consider how to break the power of the large purchasing organisations with farmers. How can we ensure that the offer decreases? These are all ways in which the government, without wanting to turn into a centrally managed planning economy at once, can influence the market. After all, we cannot leave it to the market alone. A market does not always give a just outcome without the intervention of the government as market master. Well, that's kind of a rare thing to do. My appeal to the Secretary of State is: act more; take your political responsibility as Secretary of State and make sure the market works better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mr. Chairman. I'll start soon. I wasn't even a first-term spokesperson, so it was a long time ago for me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow new stables only if they are demonstrably fully sustainable (e.g. with Ecolabel) and at least meet the animal welfare level of two stars of the Animal Protection Better Life Label,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u114	I have a question for the SP Group. Does this motion mean that it wants to incorporate the star system set up by the Animal Protection and Industry into legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u115	The Secretary of State is ultimately about incorporating it into legislation. I shall now turn to the motion as it has been formulated. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u116	I think the motion is very special. Mr Smaling wrote in the motion on behalf of the SP Group that new buildings should comply with the two-star system. If the justification or rules regarding these stables are modified as a result of such a private system, is an environmental permit no longer valid? How am I supposed to see that? How should this motion be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u117	It is not that something is immediately no longer valid. The motion calls on the government to steer rules in a certain direction, so that we can take a new step in the area of barn systems. That's the port of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u118	Isn't the consequence the other way around? Isn't it the right thing to hinder innovation? Doesn't that put a stop to everything? That's my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u119	You can have a very fundamental debate on the direction you want to take with the technological renewal of livestock farming. There's other sides to it, too. Think of the integration into the landscape and the way consumers look at the entire livestock system. From that point of view, we may differ from that view on........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, let us first listen to the Secretary of State to hear how she looks at this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to set a target date when all livestock housing systems will meet the criterion of natural behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an action plan with intermediate steps and measures to work towards this target date,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u120	The third and final motion relates to the dairy law. Of course, he's been riding in between. She might be a little out of order. I'm sorry about that. But the fact that there is groundless growth still legitimizes the subject in this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the milk quota expires on 1 April 2015;]] [[whereas the announced additional regulation for the sake of soil consistency will first be designed per AMvB but will now be established by law at the request of the First Chamber and probably not be expected before the second half of 2015;]] [[noting that there is a gap between the expiry of the milk quota on 1 April and the adoption of the supplementary legislation, which allows dairy farming to grow unbridled landless in the interim period;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce repair legislation which prevents groundless growth during the intervening period before the new legislation enters into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u121	I'm announcing the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u122	I see that I am being corrected by the Chamber, so I withdraw these words immediately. Oh, no, I'm told I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u123	The first deadline for this debate took place in September. It's January now. Time does not stand still, not even in agriculture. I therefore think that the motion fits in perfectly with this debate. Dairy farming has gone from somewhat land-based potential to landless and is therefore part of intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u124	It's up to the Chamber. I'm going to count to see if there's enough support for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u125	This motion is out of order, isn't it? The debate on dairy farming has already taken place. That's not the issue right now. The issue now is intensive livestock farming. There will be another follow-up to that debate. Then that's the time to file that motion, not now. We can say that we agree that the motion should be tabled, but it is not now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u126	The motion is, of course, on the agenda. It is a debate on intensive livestock farming. Mr Smaling refers to the 'cow law'. This is directly related to intensive livestock farming. The VVD Group in the Upper House had a totally different position than the VVD Group in the Lower House. So I think it is very good that Mr Smaling is also addressing this discrepancy in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u127	In dealing with the legislative proposal, we adopted an amendment stating that the restriction will be determined per AMvB. At first it said: "the groundless growth can be contained," but now it says: "the groundless growth is contained." So it is no longer possible to grow groundless. In that case, it might be easier for Mr Smaling to choose eggs for his money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u128	Do you support the petitioner or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u129	If a colleague wishes to table a motion, I find it very childish to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u130	That's an argument, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u131	I urge Mr Smaling not to table this motion. On March 1st we talk about the AMvB again, and about the implementation. At the moment, the motion is not at all appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u132	It has happened once that I have not supported the tabling of a motion. But then the Constitution was almost trampled on. This motion doesn't exactly fit the agenda, but I don't want to be faint about it. I therefore support the tabling of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u133	It happened to me, as a democratically elected representative of the people, just before the ceremony, that I was not allowed to table a motion. I find that a disgrace. I therefore believe that Mr Smaling is entitled to table the motion. I support the tabling of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u134	I do not want to have a debate on whether or not. Mr Smaling explained why he felt it necessary to table this motion now. I think that is enough, and I want to give him the space to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u135	This is absolutely appropriate in this debate, because it concerns the intensification of dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u136	I note that the tabling of the motion in part No. 148 is adequately supported. It is now part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u137	Do I have to respond to that, Mr. Chairman? The dairy farmer is concerned and wonders what the timing of the dairy law looks like. That is also a reason for tabling the motion now. The Secretary of State's reaction may help us to move forward. It is also very educational for the classroom in the stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u138	Yeah, and if you don't, you might want to come and tutor me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I would also like to thank the Minister for his written reply in October. The CDA Group, with its own initiative paper "An honest sandwich, on strengthening the food chain," has made a move to preserve the manufacturing industry that is agriculture for the Netherlands. The discussion on that note will be continued here in the Chamber. I'll come back to the ACM report. The Secretary of State indicated that she would not send the report to the Chamber yet and that she could not yet mention a term. But there's a client, isn't there? I think that's our minister. In any case, he has powers over the ACM. In view of the fact that the report has already been mentioned several times in the debate and beyond, I urge the Cabinet to send it to the Chamber as soon as possible. As far as I am concerned, there is no need for an appreciation of the cabinet. However, given the commotion, it is important to have access to it. In any case, I notice that a number of parties say: what are we doing? We cannot shape sustainability unless it is made financially possible. We must therefore resolve these questions. In conclusion, I once asked the Agriculture and Fisheries Council about the California egg law. This had to do with the eggs entering the Netherlands from Ukraine. This also fits in very well with the debate on intensive livestock farming. Does the Secretary of State have an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr. Chairman. I've got a whole stack of motions. As the Secretary of State said, I have to spend the next three days abroad with her for the benefit of animals, King, country and people. I'm trying to narrow it down, so I'm gonna drop a few. I shall table these motions in the debate on the megastal in Grubbenvorst. Now I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the degree of intensive livestock farming is determined not only by the purchasing behaviour of Dutch consumers, but above all by global demand and supply;]] [[whereas the Dutch Government alone is not in a position to undo the above;]] [[calls on the Government, within its powers, to do everything possible to ensure animal welfare and animal and public health in relation to our intensive livestock farming and to do everything possible to reduce the bio-industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u141	Do I understand that Mr Graus acknowledges that, even if the Dutch consumer is doing a great deal to buy animal-friendly products, only a limited part of the production can still be sustainable, because 70% is exported?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u142	I want to explain it differently. The Party for Animals, usually in the person of Mrs Thieme, makes the most motions with the request to phase out the bio-industry. You can't just put that down with a secretary of state of a single country. I'm talking about global purchasing behavior that determines the bio-industry. That is why I am also saying that this is a given that this Secretary of State cannot do anything about. But it can possibly do other things, as I also ask, namely to do everything within its power to ensure at least animal and public health and to do everything possible to reduce the bio-industry. That's how I put it literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u143	Okay, but then I'd really like to know what you're thinking. If the consumer had only a limited influence on the way of production, because 70% of everything that is produced is destined for foreign consumers, does that mean that as a government you have to set standards for how animals are kept?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u144	Sure, but we are always side by side as two friends. That is not always the case, but it is on this subject. I trust the Secretary of State. I must honestly admit that when it comes to animal welfare, I have rarely had so much faith in a ruler. So I'm confident she's gonna do something about it, but this motion is a stick behind the door. I exercise a little pressure, but I have every confidence that the Secretary of State will do everything in his power to achieve it the way I asked it in the operative part. I would like to thank Mrs Thieme for her support and wish all those present a pleasant evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u145	Good luck in Berlin, because I understand you're going to represent us there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u146	Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, an extraordinary honour to be able to speak after the leader of the delegation. You'll feel like some kind of vice delegation leader, at least for the moment. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. It is a good thing that the cabinet, through this Secretary of State, says to support the principles I mentioned in the first term for a genuinely serious transition to an ecological agriculture in 2025. That's good. In the coming period, we are going to look at how we can give shape and substance to this. Of course, there are two sides to this sustainable transition. There is the production side, but there is also the consumption side. We talk about this very much, but we do not really have a policy. That has some kind of compulsion and we don't like it that much. I'd like to invite the Secretary of State to say a little more about that. How can you achieve a sustainable transition of that whole consumption of everything and everything? A practical example of this has to do with stumps with meat: the kilo-bullers. I have a motion in front of me which is actually a support for the discussion that the Secretary of State is going to make, but I am not filing that motion. I don't think the Secretary of State needs her at all. I would ask her to report to this Chamber as soon as possible after the talks with the supermarkets. If the outcome is negative, I hope that will not be the case. I ask her to continue to philosophize with this Chamber about how we can curb it through competition or through other instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u147	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and one question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas LEI studies on further sustainability in livestock farming show that farmers who opt for a more sustainable earning model run counter to borders, because the earning model does not fit in with the current agricultural system and it is difficult to obtain permits, financing and marketing on the market;]] [[Whereas sufficient experimental space is necessary to give sustainable earning models a chance;]] [[calls on the Government, together with local authorities, to agree on experimental space for the development of sustainable income models in livestock farming, which can be customised, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u148	My second motion seeks more than a moral appeal, bearing in mind that legislation is not possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas supermarkets are still stunts with meat offers and even there seems to be a trend break where the number of stunt offers is increasing;]] [[Whereas a strategy using meat as a stunt article is undesirable and a reasonable price should be paid for quality meat;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State wishes to make agreements with supermarkets on the elimination of meat stunts;]] [[calls on the government to examine the instruments available to the government, within existing legal frameworks, to encourage supermarkets to ban meat stumps, and to inform the Court of Justice before 1 May 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u149	In one of the recitals, Mrs Dik-Faber claims that there would be an increase in the number of stunt offers. Based on what information does she say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u150	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I notice that my bells are running. Secondly, I have formulated it as 'that seems to be the case'. We've seen Wake Animal's research. Wake-up Animal should be transparent about its research data. I'm very curious about that, too. I know those stunt offers are still there. That is something we can all see. I did not put it very hard in the motion, knowing that the investigation is not yet fully transparent. That's why I'm using the words "appears to be." Unfortunately, I no longer have the text in front of me, but it is described roughly in those terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u151	Certainly the Chamber must be very careful and we must be careful to stigmatize or simply label something by saying: "It will be more. I don't have any information. I'm not sure, but it looks like it." I think that is both unwise and regrettable, because it undermines the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u152	We can see together that there are still stunt offers in the supermarkets. Looks like the number of offers has increased. Even if that is not the case and it has remained the same, then those stunt offers are still there and the Christian Union wants to get rid of them. We just think that good food, good meat is not a stunt article. A good and fair price will have to be paid for this, which does justice to the whole chain and, in particular, to the farmers at the beginning of that chain. Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the Competition and Sustainability Policy Rule. This policy has also come at the request of the Chamber, but I hear from the sector that it is not called upon to do so. I wonder what that hesitation might be in. I think it is a good policy measure, but apparently it does not work as we intended. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the bottlenecks and, if so, will she inform the Chamber about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr. Chairman. I see that the screen on the speaker chair has been adapted for people at some age, the people who have to keep their things in front of their faces ever further in order to be able to read them. It's loud and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u154	In five years the bell will be twice as big for you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u155	I look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for her answer. I am speaking on behalf of my colleague, Mr Tjeerd van Dekken, and I can say that we are proud of our Secretary of State, because she has indicated that she does not like kilo-bullers and that stunting with meat makes the sector more sustainable. We are very pleased with that, and we share that view. We are still concerned about the instruments the Secretary of State has. I've had a serious conversation with the Secretary of State, and I know this can be spicy. I agree directly with her, but we still want a little more. We would therefore like to hear what more instruments it can use if this strong discussion does not help. We have prepared a motion for a resolution on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas low-cost meat stumps will lower producer prices, encourage further intensification and do not contribute to the transition to animal-friendly and sustainable livestock farming;]] [[Notes that stunting with cheap meat does not contribute to the sustainability of livestock farming;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the retail sector, to stop stunting cheap meat,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dikkers and Mr Van Dekken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u156	I welcome this motion. Apparently, the PvdA Group also wants more to happen. The ministers of this State Secretary, both Secretary of State Bleker and Minister Verburg, have both said that they want to get rid of the kilo-bullers. In that sense, this is not something new. This has been a thorn in the eyes of the cabinet for a long time. That is why it is right that more measures should be requested after all these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u157	Yes, it is. I assume that's what you wanted to hear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the government agreement (the Van Doorn Committee), provinces and municipalities are given responsibility for the transition to sustainable intensive livestock farming;]] [[noting that not all provinces adopt an equally proactive attitude towards the transition to sustainable intensive livestock farming;]] [[Whereas there will be an uneven playing field within the Netherlands with undesirable displacement effects if not all provinces adopt a proactive attitude to the transition towards sustainable intensive livestock farming;]] [[points out that it is important for all provinces to develop policies to ensure a transition to sustainable intensive livestock farming;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with the IPO how to further shape the transition, so that all provinces develop policies to move towards a transition to sustainable intensive livestock farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dikkers and Mr Van Dekken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u158	We have decentralised and we have placed responsibilities with provinces and municipalities. Then it's their choice to fill this out. I think it is very special that we should now call from this Chamber that things should be different, because 18 March there are elections for the Provincial States. This is a wonderful part for all those parties on which they can distinguish themselves. They can campaign on this and say whether or not they want to do it, but this is a matter for the province. I think it would be inappropriate for us, as a Chamber, to stress this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u159	We have jointly agreed in the government agreement that we are moving towards sustainable livestock farming. The provinces will also have to play their part in this. That is what we are calling for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u160	The Netherlands is a decentralised unitary state. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like that motion. I thought the motion was a little cryptic. I'd like an explanation. Who are the bad guys and the good women? Can Mrs. Dikkers explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u161	We want a level playing field in all provinces. We do not want there to be much more in one province than in another, because that can be an obstacle to sustainability. So the good guys and the bad guys are all in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u162	It sounded like certain provinces are lagging behind, doing nothing and sitting on their hands, while other provinces are doing something. I invite you to tell me which provinces are on their hands. Who doesn't do anything? Who's sleeping? South Holland, Brabant, Limburg? Who is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u163	Brabant has taken great steps and has great ambitions, but above all we want a level playing field across all provinces. It's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u164	I'd like to come back to the first motion, about stunting cheap meat. I've had the lyrics working on me for a while. I read the letter we received from the cabinet this morning, but it actually corresponds to the motion. What else does this motion add to the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u165	I'd like the Secretary of State's response to this motion. I believe that we can make progress, but otherwise the motion will support the hard work and the great efforts of the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u166	Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked in the second term, and I will answer them first. Then I will deal with the ten motions tabled, with voting advice as it is so well known. Mr Klaver said that I reacted sharply to his label of the 1990s. That wasn't sharp, but clear. It's the way I think about it: that label doesn't stick. I also had a substantive reasoning in this regard. I don't expect the market to solve all the problems. If I were to expect that, there would have been no legislation here that would allow us, for example in the field of animal welfare, to take further steps in the sector. There would then be no regulation that would better reflect nitrogen depositions and bring them down. There is always room to take responsibility from the government. I note, however, that this is very difficult when it comes to price formation. In addition, we have indeed done a large number of things, I mentioned the pilot as an example. We also wanted to give the purchasing power a counterpart by enabling producer organisations in the new common agricultural policy. That was brought in from the Netherlands by me and is now part of the common agricultural policy. I heard this afternoon that the producer organisation in pig farming received more than 3,100 notifications. These people are organizing themselves, too. What Mr Klaver is asking for is already happening in part and has been made possible by the Netherlands in European legislation. I didn't feel personally attacked, but if things are said that don't add up, then it's my right to return this with some jeu. I will continue to do so and always with great pleasure, because it is a celebration to be able to debate with the Chamber. Mr Geurts asked for "the" ACM report. That was not made on behalf of the Minister or of me, as Mr Geurts suggested. This is gonna make it difficult. So I cannot force this to happen now, not even through the Minister. As soon as there is a story from the ACM that is ready for publication, I will make sure that the Chamber gets it immediately. If it works, I'll send a response too. If the speed demands that the Chamber gets it before the reaction, we will. However, it may be possible to combine it. Mr Schouw asked me whether I would like to inform the Chamber about the outcome of that conversation and what it might mean by it, following the discussion with the supermarkets about the stuffing with meat. I will. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the new sustainability policy. It has the impression that this rule does not work. I haven't gotten that picture that way yet, but I definitely want to see if that's true. I will send a letter to the Chamber before the summer about the experience of that policy. On the contrary, I think it is very important to see whether what we are trying to achieve actually works. If it isn't, then we also have a picture of why it doesn't work. Mr Schouw asked whether I could discuss the sustainable transition of livestock farming, particularly on the side of sustainable consumption. I think he is right to make a point of that. I think that's important, too. The issue of sustainable food is a priority for me. In the coming months, I will send the Chamber a number of issues on a regular basis. The food waste is one of the subjects we are working on together. The government will be calling for extra attention to be given to this in the near future. For example, there are many themes that can also be used from the consumer's point of view. This will partly come back in the response to the Food Supply Report, as proposed by the WRR. We will highlight the role of consumers in this. In this context, I can imagine that we will highlight the role of consumers. Mr Geurts asked a question about the California egg law. I promise to return to the next annotated agenda of the Agriculture Council in writing. I now come to the judgment on the ten motions tabled. Mrs Thieme's motion calls on the government to investigate the reduction of livestock. I'd like to discourage the adoption of that motion. There has already been a lot of research, for example in the framework of the PAS and the dairy law. This was also about the effects of livestock on the environment and nature, among other things. I don't really want to stack any new investigations on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u167	I will allow one question per motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u168	Is the Secretary of State aware that the reduction in livestock production leads to the earlier achievement of national and European nature and environmental objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u169	That could be true. However, such considerations should also include the consequences for the people working with these animals. That is something that needs to be balanced. Mrs Thieme also makes the proposal, in the motion on item No. 145, to prohibit castration of pigs from 1 January 2016. I have just indicated that, of course, I think that this should be stopped as soon as possible. I have just stated in detail that we in the European Union are trying to make other countries ripe for this. I do not want to come up with such a proposal now, and I must therefore really discourage the adoption of this motion. Mrs Thieme has indicated that she is prepared to hold the motion until I come up with a written response to the story. I will respond in writing. So I will certainly do so, also to inform the Chamber of all the efforts we are making on this dossier, but I would advise against Mrs Thieme's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u170	Does the Secretary of State also come in her letter with an appreciation, or rather rejection, of the fact that the agreement to stop castration completely from 1 January of this year has not been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u171	I'll write down exactly what's going on. I do not have a complete picture of that at the moment. I know what efforts we have made in recent months with the sector itself to make it easier to stop. There's that will. I'll write all that down in that letter. Again, I am not going to say it very loudly, for anyone who wants to hear it, so that they can now ban it from 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u172	Mrs Thieme, are you holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u173	I'm taking the motion because I want to know what the Secretary of State thinks about the fact that the deal has not been kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u174	At the request of Mrs Thieme, I propose her motion (28973, No. 145). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u175	I thank Mrs Thieme for that. I come to Mr Smaling's motion. He only wants stables that at least meet the animal welfare level of two stars. I have to discourage the adoption of that motion. This would have a huge impact on the sector. This was already apparent in the debate between Mr Smaling and a number of Members. I think that the new buildings are actually being built at the so-called positive level, on which agreements have just been made between me and various organisations, including civil society organisations. I do not intend to come up with new demands now to stack them up on top as it were. There has been a long and intensive consultation process on where we are going. I would change the rules during the ride, and I don't think that's fair. That is why I say to Mr Smaling that I would advise against adopting the motion. In his motion in part No. 147 he has in mind a target date for meeting all the housing systems to the criterion that animals can show natural behavior. I must also advise against this motion. We are really at the forefront of animal welfare. In the field of intervention, transport and innovative barn systems we take a lot of steps. As has just been said, we are now fully engaged, also through that plus-stal system, in order to achieve absolutely further successes. So we're actually doing everything he asks for. I honestly suspect that this motion was not tabled in support of policy, but is also intended to do more. I just can't live up to that right now. That's why I have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u176	Mr Smaling, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u177	The motion was filed three years ago, but it didn't make it. Mr Schouw challenged Mr Van Dekken in the first time to come back to this motion. That's why I'm filing her again. The Secretary of State probably sat with his finger up in 2011 when that motion was voted on. I'll make a screenshot of that when I've looked up that debate again. However, if she sees the motion as supporting policy, I am happy to go along with it. Then there are no additional demands, hooks and eyes on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u178	I was just saying that I did not suspect that Mr Smaling would have wished to present her in this way. We shouldn't make a word game out of it either. I said that I did not expect him to say that he thinks enough of what is happening anyway, which I do, of course, make my contribution to. The fact that there will be further plus-staling systems, that for the new buildings there will be those requirements and that we will see each time that the number of sustainable stables will simply increase over the years, he can also see as fulfilling that earlier promise that I undoubtedly made as a Member of Parliament with him. So I'm gonna keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u179	That sounds pretty clear to me. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u180	I'm holding my motion, Mr. Chairman. Then we're gonna follow the Secretary of State closely to see how she continues on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u181	Thank you. I'd like that. I will ensure, I say to Mr Smaling, that we keep the Chamber regularly informed of the progress made. After all, we want to go the same way. I'm sure that's how I experience it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u182	At the request of Mr Smaling, I propose his motion (28973, No. 147). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u183	Then I come to the motion on part No. 148. There was a discussion about that. I will give my opinion and I will go over it with the Chamber where we are at the moment when it comes to intensive farming versus what is going on in dairy farming. Those are two really different issues. That's what I have to say here to begin with. That does not alter the fact that, of course, I always judge every motion. I understand, given the current situation, why it has been submitted, but it is not necessary. I would like to begin by saying that the adopted law provides for a provision that an AMvB should be introduced to link the expansion of dairy farming to additional land. Now it is not clear exactly how that works out on the farmyard. The fact that it is going to happen, as Mrs Dikkers has actually said, is, of course, laid down in the law with the amendment. This means that we are currently working on the preparation of this AMvB. I hope that I have also promised to join the Chambers before 1 March with this AMvB. That means both rooms get the AMvB. In addition, a motion was adopted unanimously in the First Chamber stating that it would like the whole matter, as it were, to be referred back to both Chambers once the AMvB is in force. That's a proposal from the First Chamber. It's possible. It's possible on its own. However, this does not mean that in the meantime there is uncertainty as to where it is going. After all, both chambers will give their opinion on that AMvB. I assume, however, that I am counting on their consistency in this respect: if these AMvBs lead to a certain trajectory and then the government submits the bill, then there is no sudden change of opinion from one day to the next. The Chambers then bring the sector, and also myself, I think, into great and total confusion. You will not want that, because I know you all as parties that want clarity. Which clearly comes with the AMvBs. There's really no need for repair legislation. I wouldn't suggest that. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Mr Smaling's fears will not arise if we do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u184	That is the last point I would like to see in black and white from the Secretary of State. I see an analogy with the law on mink at the time. In the run-up to the adoption of that law, the holders have significantly expanded. Is it not possible that after 1 April 2015, when the milk quota expires, a freeriders movement will arise in dairy farming that expands groundlessly and that we will then be sitting with the fried pears?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u185	That's a completely different question. Mr Smaling now asks me if there is anyone else who, as livestock farmers, knows where they stand who is going to do something completely different against better knowledge. You can never rule that out. This cannot be excluded from any legislative issue. Such a person then gets into trouble and gets the lid on the nose. At some point you have a problem if you do not comply with the regulations. That's the way it is with every law. One must have clarity about the AMvB at some point. Let us be clear: for those farmers who have sufficient land anyway, there are still a lot of farmers in our country who do not have this problem at all. This is not going to be a problem for part of the sector, because we have ground and know what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u186	Then the motion to part No. 149.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u187	That is Mr Graus' motion. First of all, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the fact that he has not tabled a whole stack of motions that he did not wish to table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u188	I hear there's some very spicy motions in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u189	I believe that immediately, but this motion is also spicy. So spicy that, unfortunately, I have discussions with Mr Graus for the next three days. I'm dissuading the motion. I agree with him that we should focus on making livestock farming more sustainable and not just in the Netherlands. He's absolutely right about that. We can do a lot of good work together to make that sound across national borders. That's what I plan to do, and that's what we're doing. However, to say that we are going to reduce the bio-industry around the world is an unfeasible option, no matter how high I would like to jump. I can't comply with that request. In any case, we have something to discuss with each other in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u190	That is precisely why we have sometimes not supported motions by the Animal Party in the past. They were indeed about supply and demand worldwide, something on which the Secretary of State and the Government have no influence and neither do we. I therefore rule that out in the observation and consideration. All I'm asking is for you to do everything you can to bring down our bio-industry. It is specifically about the Netherlands. I would also like to quote examples, as Mrs Thieme asked for them. For example, you can create guidelines that allow calves to stay longer with mother cows. You can make guidelines to make sure that animals aren't between bars and stuff like that anymore. That is what we can decide here, and that is what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u191	Yes, but we are already taking great steps in a large number of areas. They have the support of the PVV and I am very grateful for that. As an example, I mention the intervention in calf farming. With regard to the common agricultural policy, we have found that we are no longer giving financial resources per calf in order to gain a good market position. We are going to allocate an amount to further improve the sustainability and animal welfare of this sector. We do that, especially where we have influence. However, I note that I cannot accept the final conclusion in the operative part. If Mr Graus were to put an end to the phrase 'calls on the government, within its powers, to do everything possible to ensure animal welfare and animal and public health', I would say that it is policy support. So do we. The rest that comes after it implies more than I could do myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u192	I can get rid of that as the Secretary of State says now, but then the motion will not make it, because then, for example, the VVD will say: it is policy support, so we are not going to support it. Then it doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u193	So you're not gonna change the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u194	Then I'd rather leave that hard PVV motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u195	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u196	Okay. I accept that, but then my judgment remains: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u197	One sentence, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u198	Mr Graus is mistaken if he thinks that I have tabled a motion on behalf of the Animal Party in which I ask the Secretary of State to abolish the bio-industry around the world. I only tabled the motion to abolish the bio-industry here in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, the PVV voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u199	It's been noted. That's noted. The motion in part No. 150.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u200	That is Mrs Dik-Faber's motion calling for agreements to be made with local authorities on experimental space for the development of sustainable income models in livestock farming and customisation. She would like to be informed before the summer of 2015. Now Mrs Dikkers has the motion in part No. 153 that actually says: can't you discuss with the IPO the possibilities for a transition to sustainable livestock farming in the provinces? I would like to propose the following. If they're both prepared to hold these motions, I'd like to promise them the following. I shall, of course, take this issue up separately once in a while, because I regularly speak with the IPO Group to look with them, also in accordance with what we have agreed in the government agreement, at how we are going to move forward with each other, what some provinces are already doing, whether there is still a need for experimental space, as Mrs Dik-Faber calls it, and which one is. I find it difficult to see in advance where the need lies and what is needed. If they want to do so, I am prepared, as Mrs Dik-Faber asks, to send a letter on both points before the summer, together with the input from the provinces and the possible results. Why am I doing it like this? Because I think that decentralisation means taking each other seriously from the different levels of government, but also allowing each other space. But we do want to go one way or another. So I'm actually doing what I'm asked to do. Then I'll get back to you. If that is not enough, then they can always change the world by motion. Is that a deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u201	That's a face-up, Mrs. Thick-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u202	We should not overestimate ourselves, but should not underestimate ourselves. The Secretary of State has made the link between my motion and that of the Labour Party. I would like to cut that link, because my motion is specifically about obstructive regulation at the state level so that provinces can get started. I believe the Labour Party had a slightly different approach to its motion. I would like to make that distinction now. I agree to hold the motion. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she would also respond in her letter to the recommendations of the LEI report. In my view, the cabinet has not yet formally responded to this. The input of my motion was the LEI report. This recommendation is explicitly stated, so it would be nice if the findings of the LEI report could also be provided with a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u203	I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u204	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (28973, No. 150). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u205	I do feel for what the Secretary of State says, but I would very much like to be informed before the summer about the possible obstacles to sustainable livestock farming throughout the country and to see if there will indeed be a motion from the Chamber to make the world a little more beautiful at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u206	I think that's excellent. In that sense, I will make the link with what Mrs Dik-Faber said, because one might want to have some space to experiment. We need to be able to weigh that up here. That is why I think it would be a good idea to report to the Chamber before the summer. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u207	At the request of Mrs Dikkers, I propose her motion (28973, No. 153). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u208	I shall now turn to the motion for a resolution by Mr Dik-Faber on part No. 151, which asks to examine what instruments the government has within legal frameworks to encourage supermarkets to eliminate stunts. In June 2014, I informed the Chamber about the legal possibilities. I have, of course, promised Mr Schouw to send the results of the discussion to the Chamber as soon as possible after that discussion. I would ask Mrs Dik to hold this motion until the discussion has taken place. If she does not, I would advise against the motion because I said in advance, even in the debate in June, that I do not see any instruments now that go beyond the conversation I am having and the pressure we have to exert. Hence my reaction. I see the motion by Mrs Dikkers and Mr Van Dekken in part No. 152 in such a way as to ask for a ruling in the Chamber on the use of meat and to ask how people think about it. I'm being asked to enter into consultations. However, that is different from what Mrs Dikkers has just said in a sense, namely that there should be instruments for this. That is where I'm putting my finger on it. As it says here, I see it as a policy support. I will consult with the retail sector. As I have already promised Mr Schouw, I am going to inform the Chamber accordingly. It is not, however, that I have a number of other instruments right away. I have just made it clear in Mrs Dik-Faber's answers that I do not have them now. That is why we should not explain this motion in that way. We need to know about each other now, because otherwise it may lead to profound disappointment and I do not want that on my conscience. So as I explain the motion, she's policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u209	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u210	So I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u211	There's a difference of opinion about that. Mrs Dik-Faber has another question on her motion for a resolution. 151.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u212	The Secretary of State sees no instruments now, other than a conversation. I have indicated that I am pleased that the conversation is being held, but I am also looking for additional instruments as a stick behind the door. I do not understand that legislation is possible, but does the Secretary of State really not want to look further and say that, if that conversation really does not bring about what we want it to be real, because we have been talking about it for a long time now we need to look at what other measures we have left? That is what we want in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u213	It's not like I just started looking further today. That was also apparent in the debate. I have, of course, looked at, for example, the legislation that exists in other countries, but unfortunately we have to note that its effectiveness is not such that it offers many possibilities. This means that it will be a package of a number of things. For example, competition legislation will allow for sustainability and increase the market power of the primary sector, as Mr Klaver said. We have also made room for this through the Common Agricultural Policy. That will mean that there must also be political pressure. It is useful if the Chamber supports that, because that helps me in that conversation. In this sense, I have also embraced Mrs Dikkers' motion. However, I do not think it is right to suggest that I have another solution, which I do not see at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u214	The motion is not being held, Mrs. Dik-Faber? That was a question from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u215	I'll take it all into consideration and decide later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u216	We'll be in touch. I think we're through the motions. But Mr Bosman is still standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u217	I still have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 151. It says: calls on the government, in consultation with the retail sector, to stop stunting cheap meat. A meeting can go different ways, can't it? Or does the consultation only offer one possibility? Is it: either in consultation or you come up with regulations to stop it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u218	I think we have talked about this in detail. At that point, you know where I stand. As far as the first is concerned, I will indeed enter into consultations. Of course, I have to wait and see what the supermarkets contribute to this. Again, I cannot predict the outcome of that conversation. It's a meeting. However, I have also expressed an opinion, and you know it. It would be quite nice if that Chamberwide were to be shared, but maybe I'm asking too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u219	Is that backup?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u220	We're not gonna yell at rulers, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u221	I said I'd leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. You know my commitment to the conversation. That's how we put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-14-tweedekamer-6.u222	Then we're through. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her presence today and her participation in the debate. We are going to vote on the motions next Tuesday. I'll suspend until 7:00. Then we'll talk about the attacks in Paris.
