ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u1	I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal aims to implement the amendment of the so-called European Procedure Directive and the European Reception Directive. Those directives were adopted almost two years ago today. If my group has seen it correctly, the European Commission made the first proposals for these amendments in October 2009, and December 2008, respectively. This means that we are now six to seven years ahead and we need to consider a series of amendments to the Foreigners' Act 2000 on the procedure and reception of applicants for international protection. At present dramas are taking place at the southern and south-eastern borders of Europe. Large numbers of people are trying to reach European country. Incited by wars, civil wars and the lack of any functioning state authority in one's own country, in search of a better economic life and often seduced by smugglers, many tens of thousands risk crossing. Even within Europe there are scenes that we did not think possible until recently and for which even a solution does not seem to be in sight. Think of the situation in Calais. In the light of this, the legislative changes we are considering today are useful. Structurally on an annual basis, however, they represent a considerable additional burden on the judiciary, the cost of which is carefully estimated at around EUR 20 million. The fact that there are major problems elsewhere in the world does not, of course, mean that we should not constantly strive for improvement in Europe and in the Netherlands. But proposals such as these, which are years after they were ever conceived, seep into Dutch law, make the eyebrows frown with my group. This is particularly true at the same time as they show the EU's impotence to come to some essential decision-making in order to tackle the major problems that lie behind the reality of immigration and asylum in Europe. Apart from the question of dealing with the Greek debt crisis, this is perhaps the only issue that really matters in Europe at the moment. The inability to reduce the number of people reaching Europe with the request for international protection and to achieve a European (re-) allocation is also sad to see. In doing so, my group takes account of the fact that the latter is partly the result of the first. The only thing that seems to be possible is to come up with butter-soothing agreements. Those agreements then seem to be only intentions on second thought. The contrast between this reality and the regulation that is now before us is great. We regret that our request to the Secretary of State for a reflection on the directives in the light of current developments has merely led to a list of, in particular, technical changes to the Common European Asylum System over recent years. A real reaction to the substance has not been forthcoming. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to reflect on this and to assess for us to what extent any effective EU decision-making can be expected in the short term. My group also asks what the Dutch Government's commitment is in this regard. Can the Secretary of State explain what the Dutch commitment has led to so far? The proposed amendment to the Aliens Act 2000 on procedure and reception should be seen not only in the light of the situations giving rise to an application for international protection, but also in the light of its follow-up. For some time now, the General Court has published a report on return policy. That left nothing to be desired. The recent heated political discussions in the Netherlands show the rebuke of this theme, which is still unchanged. How should we see the cumulation of the present amendments to the directives in the light of the difficulties in implementing the return policy? What are the biggest bottlenecks? How does the cabinet intend to take it away from a realistic point of view? Can the Secretary of State explain how the cabinet has acted in the discussion on the content of the directives before us? The idea might be expressed that my group is using the implementation of these guidelines for a broader political discussion, but that is not the intention. My group also considers it important, from the point of view of the task of the First Chamber, not only to look at the technique of implementation, but also, where necessary, to form an opinion on the significance of a proposal in the context of the reality in which it must function. It is so far removed from the major issues facing the EU that it is appropriate to consider them. In more administrative legal terms: what route does the Secretary of State see for himself that we prevent ourselves from implementing at national level changes that are years after and which may no longer be the answer to today's questions? Then I come to the directives and their implementation itself. My group's questions focus on two aspects: the so-called ex-nunc review by the judge and the switch to the so-called integral credibility assessment by the board. First of all, I come to the ex-nunc review. In response to questions raised by my group and by other groups about their consequences for Dutch implementation practice and legal practice, the Secretary of State more than once indicates the starting point of the directives. It should be noted that the Secretary of State then formulates the consequences very conditionally, more as a hope than as a certainty. For example, he states that the starting point of the bill is that ex-nunc research should "not lead to longer judicial proceedings" and later that the "point of departure" is that the lead times are "in principle not adversely affected by the bill." What does this mean? Will the government, when the lead times are longer, facilitate the courts financially, for example, or take longer lead times for granted? What is the role of legal decision-makers in this? What are the advantages of an ex-nunc assessment in the eyes of the State Secretary over an ex-tunc assessment? Does this ex-nunc assessment have an intrinsic meaning or is it merely a harmonisation, which is simply linked to what is most common in the EU Member States? Does my group see it right that the Secretary of State states that ex-nunc assessment means that the decision of the IND, including the so-called credibility assessment, is fully reviewed and not marginal? Can my group also see that this means that the judge must give his own opinion on the facts, the credibility and the so-called need for protection? In our view, this requires a substantial own investigation. What does it mean, in concrete terms, that the judge does not judge the grounds for asylum? Can the Secretary of State explain again what exactly is the difference between the current and the comprehensive credibility assessment? My group awaits with interest the answers of the Secretary of State, both on the context of the proposal and on the more technical content of the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u3	I call Mrs Stienen. She's making her maiden speech. So now I'm going to press the bell too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is an honor to have my maiden speech in this Chamber today on the implementation of the Reception and Procedure Directive in the Dutch Aliens Act. This subject reminds me of my time as a human rights diplomat at the Dutch embassies in Cairo and Damascus. I was also responsible for the immigration and asylum files at the time. I have seen that in the migration dossier there is always an interaction between the "push factors" and the "pull factors": forces that make people want to leave their country and forces that make people want to go to a particular country. That's not new. Migration is of all times. Also in our own national history there were moments, think of the years after the Second World War, that compatriots would give anything to find a better, safe place in Canada or Australia for example. In the Arab region, many people have a well-founded fear of persecution by their governments or many people cannot find protection if they are persecuted by other groups. At the time, when I was working at these embassies, it was the dictator Saddam Hussein, the sanctions against Iraq and the war in Iraq that forced millions of Iraqis to leave their country. By the way, it was then that Syria provided a large proportion of those Iraqi refugees with relatively safe accommodation, alongside the hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees who had already received it. How cynical it is that today millions of Syrians themselves have to flee from a war that seems to be coming to an end and that many gates outside the region remain closed to them. During my work at the embassies, I have also been able to observe how smugglers knew exactly what the loopholes in our laws and regulations are to provide potential refugees with a ready-made asylum story. They also knew and know very well the importance the Dutch Government attaches to the presentation of documents by asylum seekers as proof of identity, persecution or family relations. At the time, the markets in Damascus and Baghdad found perfect forgeries of all the necessary documents, such as identity cards, arrest warrants and family books. Smugglers were only too willing to arrange that for a lot of money for the people who wanted to flee. In doing so, they often forced people to make high debts in order to pay for their journey to Europe, allowing these smugglers to control their so-called "customers" for years. This criminal "firm ruse and deception" sells fake dreams to people in search of a better future. Dreams about security and safeguarding prosecution, but also about easy access to employment and social services in Europe, preferably in countries such as the Netherlands, Sweden or Germany. These smugglers know our legislation through and through and will use the loopholes in our law to better serve their "customers" for even more money. But they will not care about international law when it comes to protecting these refugees. They are not awake when the dreams of their "customers" end in the deep waters of the Mediterranean. Also in the bill we are discussing today, documents still play an important role in assessing the credibility of the asylum seeker's story. This brings me to my group's first question following Article 30b (1) (c) and 1d of the new law on the manifestly unfounded declaration of application for a fixed-term residence permit on the basis of the presentation of false documents or the withholding of relevant documents. In the reply of 22 June last, the Secretary of State says that it is of course not bad faith of a stranger if he has lost those documents on the charge of a smuggler of human beings or has not asked for relevant documents back. However, the Secretary of State writes in the same paragraph: "This may be different if, for example, the asylum seeker's statements show that he also did not attempt to get these documents back because he wanted to get in a better position." I ask the Secretary of State whether it is logical that foreigners should do everything people smugglers ask for, precisely because they are in a vulnerable and dependent position. Moreover, they have heard from those smugglers that they should not have confidence in the officials of the Dutch government. Very often these refugees come from countries where there is indeed good reason not to have confidence in the government. These people arrive, are heard and are in a situation that if you are a political refugee, reminiscent of cells, prisons and police stations, where you are questioned in a less friendly way than by the IND. The question is whether they will at such a time admit what they have done with the documents. On what basis, according to the Secretary of State IND Hearing Officers, do they distinguish between the lack of documents between, on the one hand, a conscious obstruction of the hearing by the stranger and, on the other hand, pure body retention or fear of repercussions for family members in the country of origin? The D66 Group supports all measures that help to ensure a just, humane and rigorous handling of asylum matters within Europe. My group also recognises that there are limits to our ability to accept asylum seekers. However, we would like to say that the Netherlands is a welcoming country in which people seeking refuge can count on legal certainty and legal protection in the handling of their asylum applications and the way in which they are received by the Dutch State during this treatment. That is why the D66 Group welcomes this bill to lay down these two European directives on asylum procedures and asylum reception in the Dutch Aliens Act. We therefore see this as further harmonisation of national legislation with international and European law. My group is looking forward to the State Secretary's assessment of what this means for the Common European Asylum System. My group would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive answer to the questions put by our and other groups in this Chamber in the reply of 22 June. and the note following the report of 3 July. However, I still have a number of questions about the border procedure, the relationship between the administration and the judge in the assessment of credibility and possible consequences for current cases. The D66 Group understands that the Secretary of State wishes to ensure that the four-week period set out in the Procedural Directive is not exceeded for border detention of persons entering the border procedure. In what cases does the Secretary of State foresee that asylum seekers will still be able to enter the closed extended asylum procedure after those four weeks? What criteria does he use to ensure that vulnerable persons and children do not enter the border procedure or are as short as possible? Who considers the Secretary of State to be vulnerable persons to whom this border procedure does not apply? My next question concerns the relationship between the administration and the judge and the full credibility assessment. A lot of questions have been asked by all the political groups about the interpretation of the meaning of "integral credibility assessment" and "a full and ex-nunc investigation by the judge." The Secretary of State has repeatedly stated in his answers that there is not a new policy but a different, more insightful way of justifying the judgement of faith. My group believes that, despite this statement by the Secretary of State, there is still a lack of clarity as to the scope for the courts to review the decision of the administrative body in the light of new facts and new asylum motives. In the letter of reply dated 3 July last. The Secretary of State writes about the full and ex-nunc investigation: "In future, in terms of credibility, the board will always have to give convincing and consistent reasons for how it has come to its opinion, which may make judicial review less restrictive." This phrase raises a number of questions in order to better understand what the Secretary of State means here. First of all, I have a few questions about the board. How should the administration justify a judgment on an asylum application differently than before after the implementation of the Procedural Directive? What is the difference, according to the Secretary of State, between no longer being allowed to apply the positive power of persuasion, the so-called POK, and the full credibility assessment of asylum applications? I also have a number of questions about the role of the judge. What does the Secretary of State mean in this quotation, but also in other places with "less cautious review" by the judge? What scope will the judge have after the entry into force of the law that was not there before? In the event that the court finds that the board has not sufficiently convincingly substantiated the rejection of an asylum application by a consistent statement of reasons, what scope does the court itself have for making an independent judgment on the asylum application or the appeal case? In addition, my group would like to know the impact of the implementation of the above-mentioned Reception and Procedure Directive on the working methods of IND staff at first hearing and additional hearing. A work instruction for the IND (work instruction 2014/10) has been in place since 1 January 2015 which takes into account the implementation of the above-mentioned Reception and Procedure Directive. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this instruction is or will be adapted on the basis of the assumption that the board will "from now on always have to be convincing and consistent in motivating how it has come to its opinion"? My third point concerns current cases. From the documents before us, the D66 Group has not made it clear what the implementation of the Reception and Procedure Directive means for pending appeals. That is why my group would like an explanation from the Secretary of State on this point. Is there indeed a case in progress which is now falling between ship and ship, and if so, is transitional law applied in these cases? I'm rounding up. As has already been said, my group welcomes this proposal. I look forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u5	Congratulations on your maiden speech, Mrs Stienen. A month ago you were sworn in as a member of this Chamber, where you are a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation, the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Immigration & Asylum/JHA Council and the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Spatial Planning. From 1984 to 1990 you studied Arabic languages and cultures at the University of Leiden. Then you studied Near and Middle East Studies in London at the School of Oriental and African Studies. After completing the diplomat class, you worked as the second secretary at the Dutch Embassy in Cairo from 1995 to 1999 in the field of development cooperation, culture and human rights. From there, you moved to Damascus, where you were the first Secretary of State to deal with asylum policy and human rights. In 2004 you returned to the Ministry in The Hague, where you became senior policy officer in the gender department and later Deputy Head of the North America Department. From August 2009 to December 2010 you worked as a senior social development advisor at BMC Groep. Since spring 2011, you have been a publicist and independent professional in the fields of participation, leadership and inclusiveness. You have published several books, both about your birthplace Roermond and about the Arab world. Roermond Remunj for connoisseurs; the Warrior knows exactly how to pronounce it.. is by the way a city that has already produced several senators of different political colors before you. The Arab world, as we know, has been increasingly exposed in recent years, particularly since the outbreak of a wave of uprisings, protests and revolutions in December 2010. For your regular performances as a commentator in news programs during the Arab Spring, you received the Woman in the Media Award in 2012. Your motivation for these performances was to make people look differently at the Arab world and remove prejudices. That you are a popular subject for the media also works in favour of the Chamber. So you said in Trouw this month that in the First Chamber the wisdom of the whole of the Netherlands is together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u6	As of today, you are officially part of that wisdom. We assume that your social, diplomatic and political experience will provide you with an interesting further contribution to the work of the Chamber and wish you every success. I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech. The first one you congratulate is me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u7	First of all, congratulations to Mrs Stienen. From the roaring on the benches of the entire Chamber she has already been able to deduce that her maiden speech tastes even more! Mr. Chairman. I believe that there is almost no other law in the Netherlands that we change as frequently as the Foreigners Act 2000. This time it is legislation that aims to transpose two EU directives into national law. These are the revised EU Procedure Directive and the also revised EU Reception Directive, which are issues that fall within the scope of the European Union's common immigration and asylum policy, which my group has always supported. This effort towards a common and harmonised policy in the field of asylum has, in my group's view, become more relevant as a result of the dramatic events involving refugee flows through the Mediterranean. After this legislative proposal, too, we consider that a more far-reaching common European approach and, therefore, further harmonisation of asylum legislation is highly desirable. Careful and efficient treatment of asylum applications and decent reception for asylum seekers should be the cornerstones of this policy. In addition to further practical cooperation between Member States on many concrete issues, this wave of refugees and migrants wishing to come to Europe may require a new phase in the development of the Common European Asylum System (CEAS). That would be the third phase after "Amsterdam" and "Lisbon." The PvdA Group would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State in which he states whether he sees it as such or looks at it differently. The European Agenda on Migration and thus the further development of the Common Asylum System are issues that will undoubtedly play a major role and will require a great deal of attention during the Dutch Presidency of the European Union. More specifically, on the legislative proposal, I would like to raise briefly three issues. The first issue is border detention. Several groups, including those of the Labour Party, have expressed concerns about the almost automatic border detention of asylum seekers upon entry into the Netherlands at the external border in the written preparation of this bill. The College of Human Rights has also rightly pointed out to us that immediate deprivation of liberty is an ultimatum remedium and should never be a standard procedure. This is also the result of paragraphs 8 and 15 of the preamble to the revised Reception Directive. It stipulates that a foreigner may be detained only if this is necessary and considered as lighter alternatives. At first glance, the virtually automatic detention of asylum seekers upon entry into the Netherlands seems to be in conflict with this. Of course, we support the government in the objective of effective border surveillance, but the question arises as to whether the automatic imposition of border detention fulfils the criterion of necessity. If necessary, can the Secretary of State confirm that detention will be as short as possible at all times and will not last longer than is strictly necessary? Now the bill merely states that detention will last up to four weeks, but not that the deadline should be as short as possible. I ask the Secretary of State how he intends to prevent this four-week detention period from becoming common practice, rather than merely the minimum period necessary for the examination of the identity and background of the asylum seeker, which may in many cases be shorter. We are also looking forward to the forthcoming bill of return and detention, in which, according to the Secretary of State himself, alternatives to foreign detention are also discussed. We hope that the solutions put forward by the Secretary of State will reduce as much as possible the necessity and duration of border detention. My second topic concerns medical research. Article 18 of the revised Asylum Procedure Directive provides that, if the IND does not order a medical examination, the applicant may have such an examination carried out at his own expense. However, many asylum seekers will not have the financial means to do so. For this reason, we welcome the support which, inter alia, Amnesty International organises where appropriate. In the written procedure with the First Chamber, the Secretary of State has already promised to reimburse the costs if the outcome of the medical examination financed by the applicant or by third parties is the reason to grant the application at first instance. We welcome this commitment, but we still have two concerns in this regard. Firstly, acceptance is usually not justified and may be based on various facts or documents which may not have contributed individually but in combination to the acceptance. Will the Secretary of State undertake that he is willing to have the IND reimburse the costs of the medical examination in all cases if the outcome of a medical examination, perhaps among other factors, has contributed to the decision to comply? Secondly, there is a problem with subsequent asylum applications. In practice, asylum applications are often accepted in such a procedure, because asylum seekers often do not feel free at first instance to express themselves about their medical suffering, for example as a result of torture or trauma. If later medical examination is the objective basis for granting a residence permit, would it not make sense to exclude those medical costs of reimbursement by the IND? The Secretary of State himself states in the note on the basis of the report that the Administrative Court Division also considers it possible for medical reports to show that a foreigner was not at all able to make a statement on the event or circumstance in question at the time of the first procedure. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at this again and possibly adjust his policy in that respect? Or should I read the Secretary of State's reply in such a way that he has actually done so by pointing out what he calls "an absolute minimum limit"? He added rather vaguely: "in the case of special facts and circumstances relating to the individual case, there may be a need not to contradict formal rules." Do I read it that well? My third and final point is the judicial review. Article 46 (3) of the Procedural Directive requires the Netherlands to make a number of changes to the current national system of legal protection within the meaning of the obligation to carry out a full review and an ex-nunc examination of both the facts and the legal grounds in judicial review at first instance. Our group considers this as an improvement in the legal protection of asylum seekers. Does the Secretary of State expect these enhanced quality criteria to give rise to longer judicial proceedings? If so, how does this relate to the efforts made by these directives to speed up decision-making procedures? In the note following the report, the State Secretary states that the full credibility assessment set out in the legislative proposal is essentially not different from the current practice of the positive-confidence test. According to him, there is only another, more insightful way of explaining the credibility assessment. Our question is whether an interpretation of the words 'integral' and 'ex nunc' in their common sense does not mean that new asylum motives, for example, after entering the country of asylum, can also be taken into account in the judicial assessment? In short, on what grounds could new asylum motives not already be included in the ex-nunc test by the judge? We share the Secretary of State's ambition to meet the deadline set by the European Commission for this implementation legislation. We look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State to our questions concerning the three points of border detention, medical examination and judicial assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mrs Van Weerdenburg has the floor for her maiden speech. I'm gonna ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u9	First, I would like to congratulate Mrs. Stienen from this place on her maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. The price of freedom is eternal vigilance. That's what Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States, said. This is a quote that everyone should take to heart, because today freedom is slipping through our fingers more and more rapidly through the advancing Islamization, a European superstate that is taking away more and more sovereignty and the still suffocating politically correct morale that the Dutch citizen is holding hostage. I've been a close associate of Geert Wilders for three and a half years. The most important thing I learned from him is this: despite difficult circumstances, we must continue to fight for our freedom, because that is our most precious asset. You don't realize that until you've lost it. In the meantime, there are several PVVs who, under serious personal threat, defend freedom and democracy. From this place I want to say to them: you are heroes; hold on, be brave. I won't let you down. We stand shoulder to shoulder and together we will eventually turn the tide. Today we are discussing the implementation of the Reception and Procedure Directive. And that feels double. It feels like we're painting the walls of a house that's on fire. Because there is an invasion going on, not of the Russians, but of chanceless lucky seekers who are massively crossing the road in shady boats from North Africa. Giant sums of money are paid to shameless smugglers who overcrowd boats. The coastguard of the European countries can hardly cope with the number of rescue operations. Last week, the United Nations Refugee Organisation, UNHCR, announced that 137,000 refugees have reached Europe by sea in the last six months. That is 83% more than last year in the same period. Moreover, the Islamic State has announced that their jihadis have mixed themselves with the refugees on the boats and there are indications that some of these terrorists are already on our continent unhindered. The Italian prosecutor made the cautious assessment that there are now one million people on the coast of Libya to make the short-term crossing to Europe. One million. Why don't you let that number take it easy on you? One million. When my six-year-old niece got this message through the Journal, she ditched her arms in the air and yelled at her mother: "But Mom! You can't do that, can you? There are so many people here already, it's already so full here!" Young children often see things very clearly; they do not suffer from colonial guilt and they have not yet been brainwashed with politically correct multicultipropaganda. If not the esteemed colleagues on the left side of the political spectrum. As soon as it's about lucky seekers from Africa, they're acutely losing their rational ability to think, as far as they have it. In April, during a debate in the House of Representatives, my party was even accused of being "a danger to humanity"; a scandalous and also dangerous accusation. This is because we are calling for the reception of refugees in the region and for the immediate return of all migrants crossing the border to Europe. A proposal that can also count on broad support from the Dutch people! A poll by EenVandaag shows that two thirds of citizens think the Netherlands is too full and prefers shelter in the region. Let me also make it quite clear in this Chamber: we of the PVV also find it terrible when people drown. Every lost life is one too many. That's why we need to make sure they don't get on those crummy boats anymore. Let them know in advance that they will not have access to Europe and the power will dry itself. The PVV is a supporter of Australian push-back policy. That policy means that the Australian Coast Guard is pushing all boats with migrants back to where they come from. All of them, without exception. And if the boats in which the migrants are insecure, they get safe boats from the Australian Coast Guard, with clean drinking water, air conditioning and life jackets on board. But back they go. Without exception. And, Mr. Chairman, that policy works. Meanwhile, the flow of migrants trying to reach Australia has dried up. That means that no more people are drowning, now that they no longer have the false hope that they can start a new life in Australia and that they will not even get on those boats anymore! That is the solution to the problem. The people who get into these crummy boats on the coast of North Africa, some of them facing drowning death, do so because they have the hope of starting a new life in Europe. This hope is fueled by the fact that so many of them have already managed to reach the coast of Europe. They are picked up by the Western Coast Guards and as a kind of taxi service the migrants are taken to Europe. That policy must stop immediately. We cannot cope with this huge influx in Europe. We simply can't handle it. Send them back. Clear. Thanks to the current government under the leadership of the VVD, the asylum influx has increased enormously. In 2014, there was even a doubling of the number of first asylum applications compared to the year before. And every asylum seeker costs the Dutch taxpayer more than €36,000 per year. That's almost the triple of what an AOWer gets. That's, to stay in PVV terms, crazy. Over and over again, this cabinet proves that it prefers to stand up for the rest of the world. That it would rather do what the European Union wants than stand up for its own citizens, for its own elderly. The PVV Group once again calls on the cabinet: rather spend that money here. To our own elders. To the people who built this country. To the people who chose us. And stop thinking that we are responsible for the problems in the rest of the world, that we should solve the problems in Africa and that we should take care of all the pathetic poor people from the rest of the world. Stop it. Cut the asylum crazy. Enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Congratulations on your maiden speech. As you have just heard, it is customary in the First Chamber for Members of Parliament who have made their maiden speech to be given a brief outline of their background. From you I can mention that you have studied law in Amsterdam and have been a policy officer for a number of years of the chairman of the PVV Group in the Lower House. Since 22 June 2015, you have held this position again. We've done everything we can to find out more about you, but we haven't succeeded. Ironically, in the few public information available about you, there is so little to find about you. Of course, it is your right not to want everything out in the open, and I assume that you would like to keep it that way. I would like to say that we wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber and that we hope that at the end of this parliamentary term we will have got to know you better. I shall suspend the sitting to give the House the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but as I said, I shall do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u11	I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u12	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Weerdenburg and Mr Stienen. Above all, I wish them every success and wisdom in this Chamber of reflection. Today we are discussing an implementation legislative proposal of two European directives adopted in 2013 by the European Parliament and the Council, which preceded a few years of negotiation. The world has changed considerably in recent years. It began with the Arab spring, which seemed promising but has come to a disappointment. In most Arab countries, the revolution has turned into conflict or authoritarian rule. We have experienced political, social and economic instability in the Middle East and North Africa. As a result of this instability and the rise of IS, large uncontrolled refugee flows have started. Every day we read in the newspaper or on our smartphone about boats with refugees and refugees drowning in the Mediterranean, about groups of refugees that make trucks at Calais and Hoek van Holland unsafe or that enter the Channel Tunnel. In Europe, internal borders are being re-established. The VVD Group is deeply concerned about the social and political stability that is threatened by this. According to our national security strategy, this is a matter of vital interest and it is for that reason alone that we need to pay particular attention to this issue. At the time when the European directives were drawn up, this problem did not yet arise. This does not mean that we should not assess this implementation law on its own merits, but the context outlined by the VVD Group has been explicitly taken into account. A European Directive is a task for national Member States to implement it in national legislation. In this case before 12 July of this year. If this bill is adopted today, and that is very likely to happen, then the government is right on time. The VVD Group believes that the issue of migration is at least a European issue, which goes beyond this Procedure and Reception Directive. The European Migration Agenda, recently proposed by the European Commission, should respond to this European migration issue. The government has indicated that it is in favour of the European Migration Agenda. It is based on increased commitment to border surveillance and development of asylum policies combined with capacity building and cooperation with third countries. An important part of the measures proposed by the European Migration Agenda is aimed at "limiting influx by immediate action and following an integrated approach combining instruments of both internal and external policy." Can the government say a little more about this than this phrase, in particular, made by officials? This one sounds promising, but still says so little. What are the immediate measures? And what instruments of both internal and external policy? More fascinating are the following comments from the government, namely that the Commission intends to develop further guidelines to improve standards for asylum procedures and that the Cabinet sees these guidelines as an appropriate way to optimise and harmonise the use of current procedures, given the significant differences that still exist between Member States in the application of those procedures. But the revised Reception Directive and the Procedural Directive were designed precisely to optimise and harmonise these procedures. So what are the differences between the Member States? And where is the Netherlands? The government also indicates that the Commission proposes to launch a wide-ranging discussion on the future of the Common European Asylum System and that the Cabinet considers this discussion a good opportunity to further assess the sustainability and stability of asylum procedures in Europe. Frankly, my group would have expected a little more ambition from the government. Is the government prepared to take the lead in the debate at European level and, if necessary, to propose measures to deal with refugees much more in the region, for example, and to take the political refugees who come to Europe effectively and as well as possible? These measures will have to be sought not only in existing asylum procedures and the existing asylum system, but also outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mrs Duthler urges the government to do more, so that more refugees are received in the region, if I understand correctly. Is she aware that the vast majority of people are already in the region and that there are so many problems there, because there are so many of them? We are talking about 95% of the number of refugees worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u14	I told you, large groups of uncontrolled refugee flows have begun. We all know that. There are 50 million people on the run, as it is called, of which 1 million are already run by smugglers in refugee camps in Libya alone. It is a problem of unprecedented magnitude, and we know that we cannot deal with it all in Europe. What we also know is that these huge groups of refugees lead to economic, social and political instability. We should not close our eyes to that. We need to do something about that. I invite the government to develop a vision on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u15	You asked if the government wants to ensure that more people are taken care of in the region. You say that they are all coming to Europe now, but my question is whether you know that there is only a very small percentage of travel to Europe and that almost everyone in that region is already bivouacing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u16	That very small percentage is still a great deal for Europe. However, I would like to put that question to the Secretary of State. Maybe he can say something about that, too, because he's the one who really understands the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u17	Then may I ask one last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u18	Yeah, one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u19	Are you familiar with the problem of reception in the region at the moment? Do you know that there are persistent food shortages, that there is a lack of education, infrastructure and actually everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u20	What's your question? This is just a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u21	Are you familiar with that? How does this relate to your call for only refugees to be received in that region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u22	I would ask you both to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u23	I see Mrs Strik's question mainly as a statement. I've asked the Secretary of State, through the chairman, to come up with figures. The problem is enormous, both in the regions and in Europe. We know that. The VVD Group says that we should not close our eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u24	Please continue, Mrs. Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Given the scale and nature of the refugee flows and their consequences for social and political stability in Europe and the Netherlands, the VVD Group believes that the existing procedures for filtering the real political asylum seekers from these flows should be adapted. The present legislative proposal is mainly a refinement of the existing procedures. Is the government prepared to assess the procedures for their suitability? Is the government prepared to review them if necessary and to make efforts in Europe to do so? Then I have a few more substantive questions about the bill itself. Several political groups have asked questions about the full and ex nunc investigation into both the factual and legal grounds of the application for asylum by the judge. The Secretary of State stated in his reply, inter alia, that in order to facilitate the courts, the justification for the credibility assessment has been strengthened. We are talking about the so-called full credibility assessment. Other groups have already spoken about this. The Secretary of State expects him to remove the need for the court to conduct an independent investigation into credibility. On what basis does the Secretary of State base this expectation? If the court considers it necessary to carry out an independent investigation, what does this mean for the duration of proceedings and the costs of the case-law? The Court of Justice has indicated that the total impact of the Procedural Directive is EUR 6 million in 2015 and EUR 12 million in 2016. These costs cannot be met by the case-law itself. The Administrative Court of the Council of State has indicated that the additional workload of the Procedural Directive will be around EUR 4 million per year. In fact, it expects to have to hold meetings more often than before. Has it taken into account the possibility of independent investigations into the credibility assessment? What influx of asylum seekers are these expectations based on? Are these numbers still realistic? The COA has to do with a sharp increase in asylum seekers receiving it. Germany is also experiencing an exponential growth in the influx of asylum seekers. These are just a few examples. The Government has indicated that the additional costs resulting from medical examination will be adequately addressed in 2017. The financial resources of the judiciary have been under such pressure in recent years. How does the government prevent them from being put under any further pressure? The VVD Group is not unwillingly opposed to the bill. However, it expects more ambition from the government on the issue of Europe and the Netherlands, which is related and underlying to this legislative proposal, namely the reception of the uncontrolled flows of refugees that have begun and which are far from coming to an end. The members of the VVD Group will take note with great interest of the government's intentions in this area, which go beyond what the government outlined in its response of 22 June last. I saw Mr Schrijver get up and thought he was walking to the interrupting microphone, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u26	I'll keep an eye on that. Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Stienen and Mrs Van Weerdenburg. The SP Group thanks the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to the questions. It welcomes the State Secretary's commitment that the starting point, which is already being considered at first hearing whether the border detention can be lifted, is laid down in the Foreigners' Circular 2000. This is an improvement for the asylum seeker, because it is only now being done after the second hearing. The Group of the Party of European Socialists also welcomes the commitment that the principle that the alien can be reduced at the request of the alien will be laid down in the 2000 Foreigner Circular. This way, for example, Syrians coming out of war zone do not need to stay in border detention for a longer period of time. We are pleased that the fact-finding by the IND will be subject to a somewhat more exhaustive review of the current review. The interpretation given to "full and ex-nunc research," namely that it refers only to a test by a reviewer of whether the decision of the administrative body is lawful, could lead to uncertainty in the view of the SP Group as to the intensity of the first-line judge's review. The Group of the Party of European Socialists wonders whether the aforementioned interpretation is an effective provision as referred to in Article 47 of the Charter. Did the Secretary of State investigate this further? If so, what is the outcome? Can the Secretary of State explain how Article 47 of the Charter is interpreted in this respect in neighbouring countries? In the documents of the plenary session in the House of Representatives, I read that the Secretary of State requested information from the Member States in response to questions from the CDA Group, but that he did not have it at the time of the plenary session. This information may be available by now. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that there can only be real legal protection in the present cases if the judge is able to carry out a full assessment, including with regard to the facts. The SP points out that the IND has a lot of power on this part. If the IND considers the asylum story unbelievable, it will generally conclude that the asylum seeker is not a refugee. But the IND is not infallible. Especially in asylum cases, where there is often little evidence, the IND should be able to be checked on this point. In view of the major interests involved, legal protection should be paramount. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is concerned that the accelerated procedure, which is more practice than exception, will continue to apply without delay and that matters which do not, in principle, benefit from the accelerated procedure will also be removed. Internationally, the accelerated procedure has already produced a lot of criticism. In the United Kingdom, the short time for appeals and appeals resulted in a British court declaring the accelerated procedure illegal. Does the Secretary of State expect a similar ruling to follow in the Netherlands? Is the Dutch situation comparable to that in the United Kingdom? My third and final topic concerns the detention of minors. With regard to the detention of minors and families, at least six judgments have been issued in recent months, in which the foreign court has held that the detention of minors was unlawful. The reason for this was that the child's right was not sufficiently concrete, known and verifiable in the balance of interests. The judge held that the policy's implementation did not correspond to the policy. The IND has not appealed against these cases. The cases are therefore irrevocable. In two more cases, the case on appeal at the request of the IND has been withdrawn and compensation has been paid. Article 17 (1) of the Return Directive states that "Unaccompanied minors and families with minors shall be detained only in the last resort and for as short a period as possible." However, this provision is not included in the draft bill of return and detention which implements the Return Directive, as it was announced at the consultation stage. The Minister intends to submit the bill Return and foreign detention to the House of Representatives after the summer recess. In view of the fact that the removal of children's freedom is at odds with the ultimum-remedium principle of Article 37 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child (IVRK), given that detention is a very serious means and has a negative impact on children in particular, given the need to implement the Directive in legislation and the fact that the aforementioned judgments of the Foreign Justice indicate that "unaccompanied minors and families with minors are not always subject to detention policy, it is important that the text of Article 17 (1) of the Return Directive, namely that "unaccompanied minors and families with minors are only placed in detention for as short a period as possible', is incorporated into the bill of return and detention. We would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this matter. We will listen closely to the reaction of the Secretary of State, and because we consider this to be very important, I am saying that we will possibly table a motion on this, but we hope that the Secretary of State will be able to meet us without it. Policy on the border detention of minors and families has improved since 1 September 2014. The policy has been improved, inter alia, following the report on "Admissibility of asylum seekers in the light of human rights standards." There is now a rapid screening before a decision is taken on border detention or whether the children and families are free to wait for the asylum procedure. This is a nice development because before 1 September 2014, all children and families were taken directly into border detention, as far as they entered the country via Schiphol. Given that the removal of children's freedom is at odds with the ultimum-remedium principle set out in Article 37 IVRK and since detention is a very significant means and has a negative impact on children in particular, the SP Group considers it important that legislation also lays down for border detention that "unaccompanied minors and families with minors only in the final instance, and for as short a period as possible, be placed in border detention." We would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this matter. On this point, too, we will be listening to the response of the Secretary of State. Since we also consider this point very important, I would like to say that we may be tabling a motion on this, but we hope that the Secretary of State will be able to meet us without it. We're looking forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. I too begin by congratulating Mrs Stienen and Mrs Van Weerdenburg on their maiden speech. I look forward to a good partnership. If the House adopts this bill today, the Netherlands will achieve a milestone of the Common European Asylum System. The second stage of harmonisation of asylum standards has thus been completed in the Netherlands. However, there is still a long way to go for European harmonisation. I do not know what the state of transposition of these directives is in all the Member States. Perhaps the Secretary of State can tell us this, but there is still a long way to go for harmonisation in practice. In particular, the eastern Member States, which had hardly any asylum system before accession, and the southern Member States, which have been under great pressure on their external borders for years, are still far from the standards we are implementing today. The Dublin Regulation, the distribution system, is also part of the GEAS, but it seems to hinder the harmonisation of standards rather than being complementary. The fact that, even in the current global and European refugee crisis, trade ministers and heads of government are unable to take the first step towards greater solidarity and a more equitable distribution offers little hope. It is therefore very important to consider ourselves strategically. Let us not continue to watch each other paralyzed until everyone agrees with each other until the end of the day, but let us create movement with a leading group if necessary. My group would like our government not to cling to straightforward positions, but to really examine all options for rapid harmonisation. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The revised directives, in particular the Procedural Directive, provide more guarantees for asylum seekers in the Netherlands than they do now. This applies in particular to the assessment by the IND and the burden of proof, the treatment of vulnerable asylum seekers, the judicial test and the suspensive effect on appeals. It is striking that the Secretary of State emphasizes in particular that not so much does actually change. At the same time, according to the Cabinet, there would be major problems if the implementation proposal was not adopted in good time. This seems contradictory. Are we really actually complying with the directive now or is this legislative proposal formulated or explained in such a way that we make as little adjustments as possible and balance on the brink of the obligations of the directive? My group hopes to clarify this in the individual parts. I will focus on the border procedure, the administrative and judicial review of asylum applications and the medical examination. With regard to the Reception Directive, I still have a few questions about access to the labour market and the termination of reception after the expiry of the four-week departure period. The revised Procedure Directive leaves no room for interpretation other than that our closed AA procedure (general asylum procedure) at Schiphol Airport is a border detention procedure. The most important adjustment now concerns the maximum duration of the border detention: after four weeks, the asylum seeker ends up in a country procedure. However, this is not enough: the directive offers more guarantees. The Directive limits the application of the border procedure to applications for asylum which are manifestly unfounded and inadmissible. However, the Secretary of State proposes that all applications for asylum in the border procedure should be examined against these grounds, whereby the general asylum procedure begins for everyone in the border procedure. The question is whether that is allowed. Is the application of the AA procedure to Schiphol, in detention, not an application of the border procedure? The Secretary of State takes the view that you must initiate a procedure in order to know whether there is a manifestly unfounded or inadmissible application. At first hearing, however, the grounds for asylum are not yet discussed. What steps does the Secretary of State take to assess as soon as possible whether a border procedure is allowed in the specific asylum application? Is there an explicit time to consider this after the first hearing and is there any justification when the border procedure takes place? The Secretary of State has written that each detention shall be subject to a proportionality test and that the outcome shall be justified. When exactly is that going to happen in the border procedure? Furthermore, the border procedure is in principle unsuitable for asylum seekers who need special procedural safeguards as a result of torture, rape or other serious forms of psychological, physical or sexual violence. This also refers to Article 24 of the Directive. However, the medical examination in the RVT, which could provide conclusive evidence, is limited to the assessment of whether the person concerned is considered to be able to be heard in the AA, and whether special facilities are required for that purpose. The research therefore does not focus on identifying a possible trauma that prevents the asylum seeker from explaining his story or the presence of scars that could give medical support in the IND's investigation. The limited research has always been problematic, but is now also contrary to the aim of this revision of the Directive to safeguard the interests of vulnerable asylum seekers. The directive prohibits Member States from removing applications for asylum from this group in a border procedure, so you need to carry out a screening as soon as possible on signals from that group. However, the Secretary of State is not prepared, he says, to extend the medical investigation. How, then, does he intend to prevent the asylum applications of these persons from being dealt with in the border procedure or that the IND in the AA receives too little relevant information related to those traumatic events? Article 25 of the Directive prohibits, in principle, the application of the border procedure to unaccompanied minors. I read in the documents that an alternative to detention is being provided for them, but does that really mean that the border procedure is not being applied? There is now no guarantee in the law. I'd like a response. Then there's the credibility test and the judicial test. For many years, the combination of the so-called POK test, in which the burden of proof was extra heavy if the asylum seeker could not prove all the elements with documents, and the marginal test of the fact finding by the judge was one of the major stumbling blocks in the Dutch asylum procedure. The revised Directive requires more safeguards for the assessment of the asylum story. In fact, Article 11 obliges the administrative body to state its reasons in fact and in law, and, in addition, in the event of an appeal against a rejection, the court must examine both the factual and the legal grounds in full and ex nunc. Since these are two important corrections to Dutch law, it is very important that the State Secretary does not trivialise these changes in advance or try to knead them in such a way that nothing needs to change. My group is pleased that the Secretary of State has now changed the credibility test, but at the same time that he believes that it is not a change, we are concerned. This would mean that undocumented asylum seekers would still find themselves in a very difficult position of proof in advance. However, the Secretary of State contradicts this: a positive force of conviction is no longer required in advance for this group of asylum seekers. If that is indeed the case, can he at the same time claim that this new assessment framework is not a policy change? I would like to comment on this point. During the judicial test, the Secretary of State fully acknowledges that the implementation proposal contains an amendment to the judicial review, namely the full test of the fact-finding and credibility assessment by the IND. But then the Secretary of State also tries to indicate that there is not much news under the sun. My group does not agree with that. If the IND had previously rejected an application for asylum because he did not find any part of the asylum story credible, then the judge or the judge could only assess whether the IND had gone through the right steps to arrive at that assessment. Now, however, with the adoption of the implementation proposal and the application of the directive, the judge will have to go into the assessment of the facts in more detail. The judge will have to ensure that the assessment of the IND is correct by means of, for example, questions to the asylum seeker or, where appropriate, the request for an expert opinion. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with my group? The judge should have all the space he or she needs to assess whether the IND has correctly assessed the facts of the asylum story. The Secretary of State seems to pretend that the judge should not make an independent judgment, but that is always the job of a judge. To this end, the Awb is also equipped with numerous instruments. Of course, this investigation and that assessment of the credibility and legal qualification is carried out on the basis of the file and the decision, but also on the basis of any new facts and legal bases that appear before or at the hearing. In the Mahdi judgment, the Court of Justice made it clear once again that, from the point of view of effective legal protection, the judge must be able to carry out an in-depth examination of all factual elements, including elements not already put forward by the administrative body, and that he must be able to make his own judgment in the place of the administration. In this case it was about detention, so when it comes to life or death, this obligation already applies. The Secretary of State has therefore quite rightly dissuaded Kiek and Azmani's amendment because of the violation of Union law, but is it not equally contrary to Union law if he sends the same message to judges through the parliamentary documents? Or does the Secretary of State think that this message is less noticeable in Brussels than a legislative text? Of course, the better the IND does its job and the more extensive it shows in its decision, the less a judge will tend to do that work again. But we are talking here about a fundamental importance, namely the assessment of whether there is a risk of refoulement. It is up to the judge to determine how he arrives at this assessment, and in our trias politician it is not appropriate for a driver to sit on the judge's seat. Then the ex-nunc key. In other areas of administrative law, the government wants the judge to close the case as much as possible. Is it true that the Secretary of State deviates from this preference in this area and if so, why is that? The Secretary of State excludes new asylum motives from the ex-nunc test, but a new asylum motive is also a new fact. The directive should explicitly authorise such an exception, and it does not. The Court of Justice will interpret the ex-nunc requirement in Article 46 in the same way as that in Article 31 of the Stay Directive, which means that all new facts will be taken into account up to and including the hearing. If these require a re-examination or review, the court may use an administrative loop, but he may also instruct the administrative board to take a new decision. The IND therefore has every opportunity to find a new asylum motive, but it remains the first procedure to apply, and that is very important now that the procedure of a subsequent application has been properly undressed. I call the one-day test, the lower legal aid, the withholding of suspensive action and, of course, the strict nova criterion. In doing so, we do not do justice to asylum seekers who, for plausible reasons, do not yet fully give their asylum story on the table in the first procedure a fair chance. With the general asylum procedure, the Netherlands has a unique, ultra-short procedure. An asylum seeker must open up business in the first week, even with the lawyer. This creates enormous problems for people who have been raped or are homosexual and have always kept this secret, or for asylum seekers who have been traumatized. You could say that this is some kind of damaging side effect of our brief procedure. The exclusion of new asylum motives, perhaps for that reason, is therefore contrary to the directive, both to the text and to the purpose of the directive. Indeed, recital 29 of the Directive points out that Member States offer appropriate aid to applicants in need of special procedural guarantees, including sufficient time. A subsequent application for asylum excels precisely in short procedures and as little time as possible. So how's the Secretary of State gonna fix this? How will it ensure that persons who need special procedural needs and guarantees are not crushed between the short general asylum procedure, the limited ex-nunc test and the ultra-short procedure for repeated requests? It seems to us that they are in the worst position, rather than getting better guarantees. Is the Secretary of State prepared to enforce the guarantees of the normal general asylum procedure, including suspensive effect on appeal, for all asylum seekers who have not been able to make their claims in relation to trauma earlier and therefore have to submit a follow-up application? I actually see that as the only guarantee that vulnerable persons will come to their senses in the Dutch proceedings. So I am talking about normal standards, including a follow-up request. Another measure supporting this particular group of vulnerable persons is the funding of their medical research. Mr Schrijver referred to this as well. However, the Secretary of State shall reimburse the costs in a first procedure if the investigation has led to an agreement. My group would like to know exactly how that is assessed. After all, acceptance is not justified, and often there is a combination of factors. Wouldn't it make more sense if it were sufficient if the medical examination had contributed to acceptance rather than having to establish a direct causal link? The Secretary of State shall exclude reimbursement of costs in the case of a second or subsequent procedure. In recent years more than half of the follow-up applications in which iMMO has issued a report have still been granted a residence permit. So there too, the medical examination plays an essential role in the assessment. At the same time, it is only a few dozen files. So it's small numbers, but it has a big impact. Article 18 of the Procedural Directive makes no difference between first and subsequent procedures. On the basis of this Article, Member States shall be required to finance a medical examination relevant to the assessment of the request in any situation. If an asylum seeker makes a second application with an asylum story that he could not have introduced earlier and where medical support would be relevant, will the IND not request a medical examination? And if the IND fails to do so, but a self-financed investigation does lead to acceptance or contribution, why should we not reimburse the costs? The State Secretary's argument that the IND and the judge acted correctly in the first proceedings is irrelevant. It is not a question of correcting a mistake, but of assessing a new account or of new relevant facts. I would like a clear answer and a commitment that the Secretary of State will in future pay for this medical examination. By the way, I found on Migrationweb a disturbing letter from the board of iMMO to the IND. It stated that iMMO refrains from making an offer in the procurement of medical research, because I quote "the program of requirements is not compatible with the execution of forensic-medical investigations that comply with acceptable standards of professional behaviour, objectivity and independence. In addition, several points are unfair to the contractor without a reasonable link to the good progress of the asylum procedure." This is a worrying conclusion from iMMO, especially considering that this is the only institution that carries out this type of investigation in the Netherlands and is widely recognised as authoritative. Can the Secretary of State explain on what points the programme of requirements for iMMO did not meet its standards? What has the Secretary of State done with these objections? In any event, the programme of requirements makes it clear that the Ministry requires that the medical examination can be completed during the general asylum procedure of eight days, so that it can be ended in the AA. Why does this procedure need to be leading? It does not do justice to the need for a careful investigation, does it? Also from last year's WODC evaluation, which I myself participated in, it turned out that in most cases the AA works well, but that risky pressure arises when matters of vulnerable persons have to be removed from the AA. The revised Procedural Directive does not build up extra guarantees for this group of people for nothing. I ask the Secretary of State why we do not remove the pressure and refer the matter to the extended procedure when a medical investigation is needed. Finally, I have two points on the Reception Directive. Although the European Commission had proposed to grant asylum seekers wide access to the labour market, the Council has set significant thresholds. Germany and the Netherlands, in particular, have made efforts to meet these thresholds. This is a pity, because research has repeatedly shown that hospitalisation of asylum seekers has disastrous effects, while asylum seekers, like everyone else, are becoming more resistant to work and learning and provide for their own income. However, this can only be done very slowly by this cabinet, namely 24 weeks a year, and only if no EU citizen can do the same work. A cabinet whose prime minister calls on people not to apply for benefits immediately. The typical thing is that through wider access, it is not only easier to integrate asylum seekers but also easier to take the step towards their return. The argument that their integration should be countered, as this would make it more difficult to return, is therefore not valid. While Germany was even more supportive of restricting the right to work during the negotiations, the German Government has now come back from this. Asylum seekers are now entitled to work after three months, and for young asylum seekers there is unlimited access to learning places. Politicians there have realised that it is strange to grant asylum seekers a benefit without giving them the chance to earn their own income in the labour market. Perhaps an inspiration for this cabinet? Finally, I come to the problem that, in a number of situations, reception ends once the four-week departure period has expired, even if the applicant is allowed to wait for his request for a provisional provision. The Secretary of State uses this imminent termination as an urgent matter, so that judges decide quickly. However, Article 3 of the Reception Directive is clear: the Directive applies to all asylum seekers in the Member States, "insofar as they are allowed to reside as applicants'. As long as they are allowed to wait for a ruling from the judge in the Netherlands, asylum seekers are therefore entitled to receive asylum. If Union law does not confer any discretion on Member States, they should not impose any further conditions. However, the government does so by making an additional demand that asylum seekers be legally resident in the Netherlands. This is a very misleading definition, because that does not mean that illegal asylum seekers should not be here. The latter is the only criterion that is relevant to the Reception Directive. That is also logical, because otherwise Member States would be very easily able to get out of the directive. Please respond to this point by the Secretary of State. We welcome this step towards greater harmonisation, but with our questions we are looking for more guarantees that the Dutch system fully complies with the guarantees given to asylum seekers by the revised directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Unfortunately, then, I have to suspend until 4.15 p.m. because some spokesmen have to chair a standing committee meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. As promised last week, when I was also allowed to be here, I would like to thank your Chamber again today for its cooperation in the speedy handling of this bill so that we can reach the date of implementation and be on time. It has been asked before what is the great importance now if so little changes. Well, the most important thing is that there is clarity for everyone involved in the question of what the law means and exactly how it is implemented. We do not first have a kind of shadow area, after which we have the implementation, because then we would have two renewals. I too congratulate Mr Stienen and Mr Van Weerdenburg on their maiden speech. It will be the first of many more contributions. I look forward to a pleasant partnership. As Members have rightly pointed out, with these legislative proposals we are implementing directives which have been going on for some time and which we have been working on for some time. The negotiations started in 2009 under the cabinet-Balkenende IV. The Directives were finally adopted in July 2013. Much has been discussed and the Netherlands has contributed a lot. The main reason for accepting the directives is not necessarily that our system was not good and much had to change, but above all that we attach importance to the coordination and harmonization of the systems of the various European countries. This is definitely not the end of it. There were different qualifications of what is now ahead, ranging from "fitile" to "essential building blocks." In itself, both can be true. If you look at these proposals in isolation and think "is this now the solution to the issue of migration that we are facing?', is the answer no. But if we look at it in its context, and ask the question "is it part of the solution?" Then the answer is yes. The less exciting or visible parts are also essential to provide the whole solution. What we are seeing in Europe now is actually two things at the same time. First of all, the part that receives a great deal of attention; the major issues where we have to make political success and on which fundamental debates are being held. Unfortunately, in the eyes of the cabinet, they have not led to a unanimous approach in the short term. In addition, we have a lot of things like the ones we are discussing, which have less show elements in them, but are also crucial and essential in order to find a better solution. It is therefore in itself a gain that the procedures are aligned. This contributes to the further development of a European migration policy. However, it is certainly not enough. I also heard in the many speeches that we should not think that we can solve the problem on a country-by-country basis. The Cabinet recognizes that, too. This requires a European solution. This bill contributes to this, but is certainly not enough. The cabinet focuses on the broad European Agenda on Migration. We always have questions about this, of course, as every country has. Our attitude is that we want to make it work. I must honestly say that I personally share the disappointment expressed by Members about the speed at which agreement is reached, or even the extent to which it is not possible at all. I believe that the Netherlands has adopted a constructive attitude in the previous JHA Council, with a number of serious questions about the impact. With this attitude, we are in the top five drivers of reaching agreement on a European solution to this problem. That is not only in the details of work, but also in the mentality. This is difficult, because there is no such thing as half solidarity or half responsibility, and countries are not only able to draw the benefits of something. It is important to find better solutions in this area. They were also asked to place these directives in the context of not only the migration issue, but also the GEAS system and Dublin, which is covered by it. If we fail to achieve better joint solutions, de facto Schengen and Dublin will be under pressure. If one country does not assume its responsibilities, another country will respond by checking more often or even permanently at the borders. I don't think that's the way it's supposed to go. However, it is not enough just to call on countries like Italy and Greece to register perfectly, because then you will make a proposal that will only harm those countries. There was no agreement on relocation. The cabinet also regrets that there is no agreement on a mandatory system. The project is still alive. For a number of countries, the principle was a problem and not so much the practical choice of relocation. For the cabinet, it is crucial to link it up. That is what we will continue to do in the elaboration of better registration by Italy and Greece when it comes to the question of where people arrive. If Italy sees 170,000 people coming and finally has 100,000 people in procedure, that means that we already know an informal relocation system, namely a system in which people who are not well enough registered travel to other countries. These are matters for us that should go hand in hand with the problem within the European Union and that should also keep pace with the improvement. Are we done with these guidelines? No. There is still a world of harmonisation in the areas of registration and handling the implementation of national policies. Not only must we point out to countries, but we must also opt for hotspot approaches, as proposed by the Commission. In a very practical way, we can then provide assistance to ensure proper registration. We will know immediately who is trying to enter Europe and we will be able to judge it. The least desirable elements are already referred to as the attempts of radicals to mingle below, which should be recognised and depicted as early as possible. This danger, which applies to the whole of Europe, must be combated and contained as early as possible. Another element that is at least as important, which the cabinet is always committed to and committed to, is the question of how the European Union, preferably as a block, deals with third countries. The importance of reception in the region was rightly pointed out. It was right to point out the extent to which this is already happening. Depending on the definition, 87% to 95% of refugees are affected. There is still room for improvement. We do this, for example, by contributing to stability. The biggest push factor is war and misery. We also contribute to increased capacity for third countries to do their own search and rescue. If we all agree that the smugglers of human beings are taking advantage of the situation in which people find themselves in unscrupulously, cynical and opportunistically, if we all think that people should not actually get on such a boat and, if they do, should be saved as soon as possible, then it is also logical to do so shortly off the African coast and to build capacity in third countries to do their own search and rescue and bring people back to the African coast. So much for my introductory answer to the many questions that have been asked about the context in which the directives are to be seen. I now turn to the specific questions on the directives themselves. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mr Schrijver and Mrs Duthler specifically asked about the commitment of the Netherlands within the EU. I just gave you a piece of that. Within the European Agenda on Migration, we are in favour of compulsory relocation and we are committed to the element of return. This was considered vague by the wording on coherent policies and the merging of forces between Member States and different policy areas. It matters whether we negotiate with third countries on a separate basis or whether we talk about trade, aid and return. It would make more sense to discuss these things together, and then Europeanly, so that we can make more effective use of the duty of these countries to take back their residents if it has been established that they do not have the right to stay here. We were asked to take the lead when it comes to reception in the region. We are taking the lead in regional development and protection programmes very specifically. The Netherlands is the tractor in the Horn of Africa. The aim is to ensure that conditions in third countries are more suitable for providing reception services. If a neighbouring country is fragile and has a lot of threat, then care in the region is of course less appropriate. These are ways in which we are trying to contribute to this and also to speed up the return of people who have no right to stay here. That is not immediate reception in the region, but still. That is why we also combine programmes we have in this area in development cooperation and facilitating return for people who do not have the right to stay. Mrs Duthler asked a question about the European Commission. We are now harmonising the directives; why is the Commission announcing its intention to harmonise asylum policy with directives? That is because this is a first or a second step, if you like, and because there are still some steps to be taken. This is really about general standards for procedures. We will already see differences when it comes to implementing them, as we now see differences in national policies, for example, or in the interpretation and legal effects of certain country policies. This is also an element in which the Netherlands takes the lead at a practical level to first make better streamlined decisions with a number of other countries and ultimately preferably with all of them, also to avoid having to do each other's work over and over again. Mrs Strik asked about the state of implementation in the other Member States. I don't have a general list right now, but by the end of the month, the implementation date expires. If countries have not yet implemented it will have the direct effect of the directive and the rules will apply everywhere in the extreme. To what extent other countries have already completed their implementation, I do not have that ready. Then there was a series of questions about the review, the full review and the ex-nunc testing, two separate elements. Mrs Stienen's question and Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question was whether the judge should now conduct his own investigation and what "less reluctant than now" actually means. That's harder because I've already been warned by the Chamber that I shouldn't sit on the judge's seat. However, many questions imply that I can provide guidance. This is an element of which I cannot say very clearly what will become practice in the near future. This is also a question of how it stands out in practice, how, from the point of view of, for example, the IND, we respond to comments made by judges in the first phase of this new regime and also of how the judges themselves deal with their possibilities and how they themselves see their role in it. This will therefore have to take shape partly by means of case law. I have said that it does not seem to me that the work of the board is being completely redone, that the starting point remains a decision of the board, and not a whole new procedure, but carried on by the judge. Nor is the procedure appropriate for the investigation required. My expectation is that there will still be a reviewer, a full judge, but initially not a judge's standard, while the board's judgement is really taken as the starting point for the review and also the administrative file.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u31	The Secretary of State seems to link up that the case and decision form the basis and are therefore examined, but he will be able to imagine that a judge should also be able to form his own judgment. Of course, the judge will do that on the basis of the file and the decision. So it's not a contradiction. You can conduct an independent investigation and form an independent judgment, but on the basis of the file, the decision and any new facts that may arise afterwards. I assume that the Secretary of State has no objection to it not only being a review, but also a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u32	I have a bit of a conceptual difficulty breaking this up, as if you could test without having a judgment. Of course the judge gives a judgment, because that is the element of tests. He's testing the work that's been done. The question is whether there should be a full re-evaluation and a full study. I do not expect the judge to do so in many cases, but there is, of course, a much wider possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u33	I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that it would be a sham contradiction between review and assessment. I very much agree with him. However, it is more often stated in the documents that there is a difference between judgements and tests and that, for this reason, the review should be paramount; this should then be done on the file. Of course, the file is an important basis, but that does not alter the fact that a judge always makes his own judgment. I'm glad the Secretary of State acknowledges that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u34	I think this is where the nuance lies. In both cases there is an assessment, but do you initially judge the work done by the board or do you judge from nothing the material matter ahead? Of course, judging the work of the board may lead to further questions on the material issue, but the judge will not judge it in such a way that the work is done all over again and the person in question is fully heard. There's no room for that either. In practice, it will show how deep the judge is working on that test. One of the reasons why I expect it to be difficult or not very often leads to an additional standard assessment of the case itself is that the IND responds to this and, for example, by providing a certain justification, allows the judge to be better able to fully review and make an assessment of the work done by the IND. We hope to remove the pressure to do the material assessment again. There were also questions about the full testing on the ex-nunc side of the case. I do not expect much change in that too, because we have already introduced the ex-nunckeying in appeal in the Netherlands in 2010. This is now happening widely at European level, but we already knew this element. So I don't expect a big change. I come to the questions raised by Mr Schrijver, among others, about new asylum motives. Why don't they get involved in the ex-nunc test now? I will not hide from that; in the House of Representatives we also had this discussion. Of course, I cannot say that that is a strange idea, because it was in the original bill. You can come to some insight, but it goes a little far to completely reject your old insight. There are advantages to it. It could be followed up. It also looks a bit different at first, if you sit here and have a new asylum motive and the judge says: I'm going to judge everything except for that new motive, which is perhaps the most crucial thing, because for that you just have to go back for a new application. Also because this is at first sight a strange picture, we had put that in the bill. After that, it went into consultation and we received opinions, including from the Administrative Court Department. These advices have convinced us to get it out of the legislative proposal, because then the court will have to assess a new asylum motive on its own. There is only a limited practical possibility of making good judgement within the framework of that procedure. When you enter a new procedure, someone is often heard in the presence of an interpreter and that sort of thing. The judicial process does not lend itself very well to a whole new assessment of a new motive. Perhaps we could have fewer cases in practice, but they will take much longer. The profit that you could make by taking it into the process could be lost again in the long run because it would ultimately take longer than following the two separate procedures. Nor is it necessarily in the interests of an asylum seeker to have it done by the judge on the spot, because he has a great interest in the best possible consideration and assessment of the new asylum motive. There are a number of safeguards that are given in the proceedings before the IND but are more difficult to give to a judge. The administrative loop that was mentioned is one of the possibilities, but I do not want to standardize it. A judge can therefore say: in this case of a new asylum motive, we do it via the administrative loop and let the procedure hang.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u35	I can go a long way with the Secretary of State, but he does not rule out the fact that new asylum motives can play a role, especially now that an ex-nunc assessment is being launched, but also a full assessment of the facts and circumstances before us. Surely it would be very strange if the word "complete" should not have the meaning of "complete"? For the history of law, I find it interesting to be able to discuss this with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u36	We share that interest. That is why I always speak in the pieces of a full and ex-nunckeying. That's a subtle difference from the idea of a full ex-nunckeying. A full review of what has been done by the Board is appropriate as well as the taking of new facts that have occurred. If we are dealing with new asylum motives, we have a kind of new category. That is a new fact, but that is far from the assessment and review of the first judgment against which an appeal has been brought. It was said just now that the board should not sit on the judge's seat. A judge won't want to sit on the board seat either. If a judge wishes to consider the assessment of a new asylum motive in a procedure in his appeal, it is obvious that he makes use of the possibility of the administrative loop. From the point of view of the guarantees that the procedure and the treatment of a new asylum motive deserve, it is also perfectly conceivable that the judge should say: I am keeping it separate; I will test the work done entirely on the basis of the old asylum motive. In addition, there is the possibility of starting a new procedure from the outset with all the necessary safeguards, but that will also be up to the courts. I do not want to restrict the court in advance by making one or the other mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u37	Can you explain more clearly what you mean by the latter? Are you saying that the judge does not include the asylum motive or that he says: I instruct the IND to make a new decision on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u38	I can imagine both. The latter sounds like the administrative loop. He can, but I didn't make him do it. He doesn't have to. The judge's gonna have to make his own judgment on that. Otherwise it is as it is now: you have recourse to one case, to one motive; in addition, the claim is made that there is another motive. It will be dealt with again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u39	I ask that question because you say that asylum motives are not part of the elements covered by an ex-nunc test. As far as you're concerned, judges can't take that. At the same time, you outline how a judge can actually deal with that. He can order the IND to come up with a new decision. At the administrative loop he can order someone to hear again. The judge can therefore ensure that all the guarantees that you can offer in an initial procedure are respected. That is not possible with a subsequent request, because then you have a much shorter, undressed follow-up procedure. Your point is really: we do not take the asylum motives, because then all guarantees will be put under pressure. My point is it's exactly the other way around. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u40	The main point is that there should not be a standard situation in which a judge without guarantees, such as an interpreter, makes an assessment on the ground of a new asylum motive. That is such a serious new fact that it lends itself to an assessment by the board, followed by a full test by the judge. The judge can say: I do not take this into account; you must put forward the new asylum motive via the appropriate standard method. The judge can also say: include it in the proceedings via the administrative loop. You can, but you don't have to. This will be one of the elements on which judges will base their choice in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u41	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u42	I conclude from this that judges do have the opportunity to test a new asylum motive ex nunc. I'm very happy about that. Then there is the question, which, under the directive, would show that a new asylum motive is not covered by the new elements of the ex-nunc test. Or do you agree with me that it is Union law that obliges the judge to check a new asylum motive ex nunc?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u43	That could have been under the directive. That is why we have included it in the original proposal. It is not in the directive that it should not be; we originally proposed it. The directive provides scope for this. The point is that these new motives can come forward. An asylum seeker still has the opportunity to put forward a new motive and derive rights from it. It doesn't say: you're already using motive A, so you've lost your chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u44	I would like to make a very small point, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u45	The Secretary of State says it's okay with the directive. But this ex-nunc review is an obligation, isn't it? What does he read that the judge doesn't have to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u46	The ex-nunc review is an obligation. Therefore, all new elements involved in the full review of an initial assessment are addressed. But a new asylum motive is of course not a new fact on the initial assessment, it requires a new assessment. Someone invokes an asylum motive, which is likely to be rejected, otherwise you will not have to go to court, after which the judge will take a full look at the decision taken by the board on the grounds of asylum. All relevant facts subsequently added to the review of that judgment shall be taken into account. Of course it is very difficult to say: yes, but I also had another motive. You then throw the board into a review that an unsubstantiated motive has not been dealt with. This is so far removed from the assessment of the decision taken initially by the Board that it is obvious to do the separate or via an administrative loop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u47	Really the very last thing on this point, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u48	It's a new element, a new fact. You can keep a whole line of reasoning as to why this cannot be dealt with in the same way, but it remains a new fact and a new element. Does the directive allow you, even though it is a new fact, not to include it in the ex-nunc test? I do not read that in the directive and I am curious to know where you read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u49	It must be relevant to a test that complies with the decision of the Board. This procedure is conducted on the basis of a proposed asylum motive, and there is a new element which sheds new light on the work done by the administration in the first instance in the procedure. This is a whole new motive. The judge does not say: because there is another motive that has not been put forward, I think that the board has not done its job properly. However, there is every reason to carefully assess that motive through an administrative loop or a new procedure, after which the judge can review that judgment again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u50	For us, it is very important that this review should be full and, moreover, ex nunc, where circumstances and facts which are at that time and which, of course, coincide with the decision taken earlier can be fully taken into account by the courts. I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to state that he does not want to complete the judge's discretion until the last centimeters. That is not the job of the legislator in such difficult circumstances. So I can live well with the explanation given by Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u51	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Strik asked about the procedural guarantees appropriate support and sufficient time and how people are being ground between those procedures in her words. At the start of the asylum procedure, the assessment of the need for special procedural guarantees in the individual case also starts. That assessment is not a moment. This can occur continuously in the process and the decision can be taken. FMMU's advice is an important part of this. It examines whether a person can be heard and, if so, whether there are certain requirements and circumstances to be taken into account. So this is a matter of individual customization, to use that term again. If there is reason to consider anything, then the IND also takes that into account. That can be by adjusting the questioning, giving additional explanations, verifying whether what has just been communicated is understood, giving extra breaks. All kinds of practical, pragmatic things that you cannot fully capture in advance are then possible. The assessment of the application shall also take into account the extent to which someone understands it. The extent to which you object to contradictions at the level of detail in the statement may be influenced by the extent to which special circumstances occur in the individual person. The IND people don't just do that, just because of the not insignificant talents they have. In addition, they follow the European training module interviewing volnerable persons, in which they are provided with techniques to identify such circumstances during a conversation. In this way, we prevent the undesirable situation from being crushed by bureaucracy or by the rules. A series of questions have been asked about the comprehensive credibility assessment. Many Members have put it forward. The difference between old and new, to put it bluntly, is mainly the motivation. It allows the judge much better to form an image of the work you've done. That's how you're gonna enable him to do a full test. You want to keep the judge from saying, "I don't have enough insight into how the decision was made, so I'm just gonna have to do it again." That would also not be in line with the intention we have with this system. That is why this has already been indicated in advance and the positive-confidence teaching has been abandoned. Under that doctrine, an aggravating circumstance, such as the attributable lack of documents, led to a higher burden of proof being demanded from the asylum seeker. The full credibility assessment takes full account of everything and does not reverse the burden of proof. This also gives you a better insight into why certain circumstances lead to the judgment "believable" or "unbelievable." The increased burden of proof is omitted, which means that we go into everything and put it in the justification. It has been asked whether it is a new policy. It is new, but in practice it does not lead to other results. So it's not a new policy. In our view, it is a better motivation. If it is not enough for me to think and say that, which I would, of course, regret, then we also have the Administrative Court Division, which was set up on 9 April. The Commission has made a statement on this matter. In its judgment it is noted that it is not a change of policy as referred to in Article 83, introductory wording and point (b) of the Foreigner's Act and that it is therefore not a change of law. As the section says, this is not a substantive change in the assessment framework, but a different method of justification. It has also noted that this is the case. I'm coming up on the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u52	I'll come back to the questions about the full ex-nunckeying. I have not yet heard an answer to some of the questions I have asked. I don't know if the Secretary of State will be able to come back to that in a moment. It was about the following questions. Has the Secretary of State examined whether the proposed interpretation is an effective provision as referred to in Article 47 of the Charter? If so, what is the outcome of this further investigation? Can the Secretary of State explain how Article 47 of the Charter is interpreted in this respect in neighbouring countries? In the documents of the plenary session in the House of Representatives, I read that the Secretary of State had requested information from the Member States in response to questions from the CDA Group, but did not yet have it at the time of the plenary session. Is this information available by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u53	To begin with, I have indicated that I do not have an overview of how far the countries are now. Soon the deadline will expire and then it will have direct effect, insofar as countries have not yet implemented it. So I don't have an overview of that right now. If it's okay, I'll come back to the other question. The term "research" always sounds very big. Perhaps I can get a little more explanation towards the second term of what exactly is meant by'research'. So I'll come back to that later, if I don't get back to you sooner. Mrs Stienen asked: how do you distinguish between withholding documents in order to get into a better position, in which case you do not really want people to benefit from them in the procedure, and withholding documents from fear of death, from body retention and that kind of thing, because of the vulnerable position in which people are in particular when brought here by smugglers? In the proceedings, the IND pays great attention to the presence or absence of documents, but also to the accountability of the foreigner. That is now also in policy and in practice. Therefore, circumstances such as compulsion are taken into account if they are reflected in the asylum story. The absence of documents is not an independent grounds for rejection, but it is an element that is taken into account in the assessment, taking into account also the circumstances under which the documents have been lost, surrendered or otherwise disappeared. If there are no documents, the hearing also specifically asks why that is. Then the asylum seeker can make a statement on this, which is also judged on credibility. If it is plausible that there are no improper motives in the game, it is concluded that there is no deception or bad faith. Ms Stienen also asked about the adaptation of the Work Instructions 2014/10. It has now been adapted, as of 1 January last, to anticipate what was to come at an early stage. This has also been done in order for the IND to work with it at an early stage. If we were to start only now, we would still have children's diseases, as we call them. As a result, the IND was already able to examine informally in the case-law procedures whether this would indeed provide a better basis for the full test. That is why I am confident that the work instruction as it is today and the practice as it has grown over the past six months will be sufficient to enable us to get right to work on the entry into force of this law, should the Senate agree. I also got a series of questions about a medical test. The question is: when will it be paid for? We have also often had the discussion about the question: should a medical test, which is also quite far-reaching, be carried out immediately? It may, of course, be that, apart from the medical grounds, there is already reason to grant a request. Then it is our preference to accept the request and not to expose that person to such a rather far-reaching medical examination. In that sense, it is not always necessary to actually do the research if someone claims that it is relevant. The medical certificate may, if it is eligible for reimbursement, be relevant and decisive for the assessment of the application. Then it is necessary to be able to accept the application. In those cases, the IND would also start the investigation itself and it is therefore logical that compensation should be made if the foreigner started it on his own initiative. I come to the question of reimbursement in the subsequent procedure. In that case, I'll look at it differently. It is, of course, the intention in all cases that matters should be identified in the first instance. Someone must immediately tell us what is going on, what is going on and what are the relevant factors that could contribute to the acceptance of the asylum application; let us assume that this is the intention in all cases. Then I think it is not surprising that we are a little stricter in terms of the reimbursement of own-initiative research. When someone puts something in the next case, it is first examined whether it was indeed impossible to indicate it in the first instance. Also in such a case, the IND may decide in the subsequent procedure itself that such an investigation is necessary. Then the IND will pay for that, too. If the stranger does it at his own risk, I do not think that compensation should be standard in the subsequent procedure. I'm not ruling it out. There is room for a different decision in individual cases, but I think it is a sound starting point not to compensate and only to compensate for costs in exceptional individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u54	I think we've come a long way. Can I understand the words of the Secretary of State as follows? Suppose in an individual case, for whatever reason, the medical information could not initially be given, for example because the stranger was still paralyzed with fear and did not immediately want to put his entire medical record on the table or was afraid to talk about trauma and scarring himself. If it turns out that this can be explained psychologically, I assume that the IND is looking at such a situation in all reasonable terms and, where appropriate, still reimburses the medical costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u55	It's still an individual consideration, so I don't want to make a judgment here that would categorically lead to compensation. I can imagine, for example, a situation in which it is not initially put forward as an element, but the stranger started the investigation on his own initiative. That investigation was not considered in the first instance. In the second, subsequent request, the research already started can count and lead to acceptance. Then, of course, research is a crucial element in this. I can imagine that it would then be decided to make a payment, because the investigation was a relevant part. I also expect that part of this will crystallise because judges, if necessary, will adjust in cases where there may not have been an individual assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u56	The Secretary of State is also likely to have been able to take note of the ruling of the Administrative Court of the Council of State that this kind of situation can only be brought to the attention of a further application. At that time, the Council of State took the view that these could be very relevant new data, which could give rise to the acceptance of the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u57	Yeah, that anyway. And apart from that, there is the question of funding. It's possible. Secondly, we are more reluctant to do so, but in individual and distressing cases it may be decided to reimburse these costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u58	I am pleased that the Secretary of State is at least giving up the rigid position that it cannot go into subsequent procedures, yet wants to make a payment if it turns out that the investigation contributes to the acceptance; then it has clearly been relevant. He limits that to an individual consideration. I ask the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber about how this will work out if it has crystallized more. In how many cases, and on what criteria? You can do that in a year or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u59	This will undoubtedly remain an element in the discussions. After a year, I can look back on how it's evolved. I don't know if there's going to be standard criteria. I do not know to what extent a judge, if we are reluctant to grant individual awards, will find that it was not good. The starting point remains that it should be indicated as early as possible and that in any case it is required that this is an essential element for acceptance. In individual circumstances, compensation may then be made. That won't be standard. It is therefore all the more interesting to see and discuss developments in practice and possible case law. Then there was another question about the tendering procedure. I refer to the contribution from the Chamber. A party would have stated publicly that it had reasons not to participate in that procedure. I'm just describing it as being so overwhelmed, because it's a procedure that's running. During a tendering procedure, I can't do much more. I can't talk to a party about that. Anyone who thinks about it and disagrees with it may still object. Someone who doesn't think, doesn't. The procedure is closed. Furthermore, I have no opinion as to whether the parties consider the tender to be interesting enough and are willing to invest the costs necessary to meet the requirements of the tender. Now that the procedure is closed, we shall look into what it will bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u60	I understand you don't want to say anything about the procurement procedure, but this is a public letter that I found on the Internet. It lists some objections to the programme of demands, by the only organisation in the Netherlands doing this type of research. That's why I thought it was relevant. I don't know what the objections are, because that's not what it says. You will read in the program of demands that the medical examination must take place within the AA, if the IND so wishes. The IND determines the time frame within which such a medical examination should take place. This may have to be done in eight days. My question was whether it is necessary that the AA and the IND are leading. Would it not be logical, if the advice from the medical point of view is that the investigation should be more careful or whatever, to forward it to the extended procedure, so that there is less pressure on it and a careful examination is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u61	There are a number of reasons for being reluctant. As the only party to do so raises public objections to the procurement procedure, I would like to say something about any other parties who have apparently found the plan of requirements sufficiently attractive and think to be able to meet them. That's a field I don't like to go into. Of course, we have been asked whether there can be a quick delivery. In many cases, it is also in the interests of the asylum seeker himself to clarify the situation as soon as possible. I don't want to be standardized for a very long-term medical examination. We also have good experiences with very fast procedures, in which you speak earlier in terms of days, to do so. If necessary, it is also possible to build in a little extra time in the AA. It is also possible, but that is not standard, to choose referral to the extended procedure. In practice, we see that more time is needed especially in psychic-medical matters. That's possible, but we're being asked to be quick with that investigation. Then there were questions about the relationship between the Procedural Directive and the border procedure upon arrival. The basis for the border procedure lies in Article 43 of the Directive itself. It states that Member States may introduce procedures for deciding at the border on the admissibility of an application for asylum and, in part, on the content of an application. There is a list of exhaustive criteria which may lead to obvious unfoundedness. In these cases, therefore, the border procedure is allowed in order to determine quickly whether there is a Dublin case, inadmissibility or manifestly unfoundedness. If one of these cases is involved, the application shall be rejected. Then the border procedure as such has ended and the foreigner generally remains in border detention, pending transfer under Dublin or expulsion on grounds of inadmissibility or obvious unsubstantiatedness. If one of these grounds is not mentioned, the border procedure will also be terminated. The border detention will then be lifted and the application will continue to be dealt with in a country procedure. Amvs are not included in the border procedure. It is explicitly the intention, as has been pointed out, that the border procedure should be as short as possible. I intend to lay down that point of departure in the Aliens' Decision, so that there can be no misunderstanding that it is the intention and the intention that the procedure should be as short as possible. It has been suggested that the border procedure lasts four weeks. At least it never lasts more than four weeks. The procedure does not normally last four weeks. In practice, it will almost always be much shorter. We really want to be as brief as possible. In some cases it is already clear after the first hearing. Sometimes you see it's a Dublin case. Sometimes you also immediately see that there is no such thing as one of the quick grounds for decision and that you have to bring the matter seriously into procedure. Then we will do the same and the border procedure will be terminated immediately. It has been asked how this relates to the ultimum-remedium character of preservation. I simply see no other way to comply with my Schengen obligation to ensure that I check who enters the country. It is not intended to allow purely asylum applications to enter the country. I have to take that into account, too. I see the border procedure, which I want to keep as short as possible, as the only effective means of finding a balance between the importance of not keeping people unnecessarily in border detention in the procedure and the obligations we have under Schengen to ensure that people who are not entitled to access enter the Schengen area. Mrs Wezel has asked for the law to stipulate that unaccompanied minors and children's families with minor children are placed in border detention only as a last resort. As I said, I will include in the Aliens' Order that single minors are not placed in a border procedure. They are treated in Ter Apel and therefore do not come into border detention. That is also in line with the directive. So this is not about "only in the last instance," it just doesn't happen. The directive does not require it, but the policy is now not to place families with underage children in a border procedure or detention. We will continue with this policy. For cases where there is reasonable doubt about a person's family relationship or minority, we have the closed family location in Zeist available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u62	My request was to include it in the law. So I'm asking the Secretary of State if it can be incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u63	I want to include it in the Alien Order. Then it'll be clear soon enough. It has the same effect. I don't want to change the bill we're dealing with here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u64	I am not talking about this bill either, but about the law that goes to the House of Representatives in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u65	That's right. I'm sorry. I want it included in the decision as soon as possible. That's got to start this month. In my view, it is then completely anchored. We need to see if it makes sense to include it in the law itself. I don't want to rule that out or commit to it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u66	Mrs Wezel, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u67	This concerns Article 11 of the Reception Directive and Article 17 of the Return Directive. It's specifically in those guidelines. It would be nice if it were also enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u68	I don't rule out coming to that conclusion. Matter of fact, I'm gonna take care of it, but to tell you right now, I'm gonna put it in a law that's still gonna come... I can postpone it for a moment to see if I can come to any further reflections between the deadlines, but I do not want to commit or rule it out on the spot right now. First of all, I would like to see whether it makes sense to include it in the law, because it will add nothing materially to the practice and position of people at the moment. It may be that, taking this in mind and looking at the law again, I will conclude that it also makes sense to include it in it. But to make that decision so quickly, I do not feel comfortable with it. Mrs Stienen asked in what cases asylum seekers enter the closed extended asylum procedure after four weeks. Technically, this closed extended asylum procedure will no longer exist because we have the border procedure. Asylum applications within the border procedure shall be decided within a maximum of four weeks. If it cannot be decided within four weeks or if it cannot continue in the border procedure, access will be granted automatically and the border detention will be lifted. Only if a foreigner proves to be a threat to public order or national security can foreign detention be instituted as a separate measure after the four weeks. That is at least the subject of 1F. This is done on the basis of Article 59b of the Foreigner's Act. There were also questions about the impact on the finances and the lead times of the possible adoption of this bill. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether there would be no negative impact of the bill on the lead times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u69	I also asked a question about vulnerable people. We have talked about minors and families with underage children, but I am also curious about the State Secretary's assessment of vulnerable persons. I am thinking, for example, of Syrians fleeing a war zone, but perhaps the Secretary of State himself has suggestions as to what he sees as vulnerable persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u70	I apologize. I saw minors standing there, and I thought, "I just answered that." Of course, there are also adult vulnerable people. As I said, in the case of underage single asylum seekers and families, this is not dealt with in the border procedure. Furthermore, anyone who reports to the external border is assessed whether there are indications that border detention is undesirable. That is also an individual consideration. Then automatic access is granted and referrals are made to the registration centre in Ter Apel. I do not have an exclusive list, but highly pregnant women and the categories I have already dealt with in detail are certainly included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u71	People from war zones, such as Syrians, aren't they, by definition, vulnerable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u72	No. An initial medical screening could show that there is a vulnerable person. This underlines the importance of its speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u73	Mrs. Strik, a quick question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u74	I also had a question about those who need special procedural guarantees. These are not Syrians or a particular population group, but people affected by torture, rape and so on. Article 24 and Article 25 of the Directive state that, in principle, the border procedure should not apply to them. How does the government manage to identify them and then transmit them directly to the country procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u75	Then I refer to my earlier answer in general about special facilities and guarantees for people who need them, namely that it is a continuous part of the process and that the IND staff are also trained to recognize and ask for it. This also applies in this context when it comes to the first decision on the suitability for border detention. Then I come to the questions of lead times and finances. This is one of the tricky parts, because this requires a prediction, while my person's predictive abilities are limited. If you allow all the choices that will take place in practice in the process, including before the courts, to go one way in the sense that it will all take longer, then it can lead to a considerable delay and cost increase. We also have calculations that show that there are accelerating elements in it that can save you something. We didn't book it in. I myself have put it in the note to say that the calculation is there, but I do not count myself rich but not poor either. So it's really hard to say. In any case, the aim is not to have longer procedures. Nor has it been said that a somewhat longer procedure necessarily leads to more costs. If the longer procedure has ended, then one and a half times one and a half can be more efficient than two times one, looking at the old situation in which it might have led to a new procedure. It's all elements that are difficult to provide. However, we have set legal deadlines that will guide the courts. There is no financial penalty for this, but it is part of ongoing consultation. Those deadlines are not for nothing either. The estimate is about the financial consequences. It also makes it difficult, of course, to give a good assessment of the workload which would then be reflected in that estimate. This is only apparent in practice. So now we have the compensation for the start-up, but as far as structural compensation is concerned, we want to wait and see what happens. The case law itself will also map the effects. Moreover, if there are longer lead times, we have already anticipated them by means of a better motivation.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mrs Duthler asked what should be understood as an independent study of the lead time and costs. The expectation we now have is an assessment of the method of working as we project it on the new rules. There is also informal consultation with the courts. If the credibility assessment is more transparent, we hope to provide a better basis for full scrutiny and for a faster procedure, so that this does not require an independent investigation. In fact, it would require extensive interrogation, including interpretation, if an independent investigation into the credibility of an individual case were to be carried out materially by the court. If we do that with the IND, there are many demands on the quality of the interpreter, on all available sources that exist independently of the person and on the knowledge of the country of origin. That is why we are doing everything we can to facilitate as much as possible that this will not be necessary. It has been asked whether the department's estimate is including this element. We have presented the new proposals and asked for an estimate. To the extent that they expect themselves to do it, they will have taken it into account. We do not have an option table, where they said: if we decide to do it later, it will cost so much and otherwise it will cost a little less. Furthermore, the question has rightly been asked in relation to the influx. Of course, you can calculate how much one procedure costs, but you also have to deal with the number of procedures related to the influx and the number of professions that result from it. We'll look at that trajectory separately. The current claim of the department will be included in the Autumn Note and the Spring Note 2016 for the coming period. In that context, we will see if the numbers are still up-to-date. It is also not so much a comment as I would like to say that a much higher influx automatically entails much higher costs, because for the influx that we have today, there is a very high acceptance rate because of the precarious situation that these people come out of and because acceptance usually does not lead to a profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u76	Can the Secretary of State also talk quantitatively about the expected influx? What are the expectations based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u77	Sure. Last year we had a big increase. That was not the case this year, because that increase had already taken place last year. I'm sure I can see the influx reaching that level. In addition to the original influx we have, there is a great after-travel effect. Looking at it now, it will be hard to see if the original influx is higher than last year. With the return effect, we will certainly approach last year's level. It is now difficult, halfway through the year, to make a harsh statement on this. The route of influx has many seasonal elements, which vary per year. The peak may have been deployed a little later. If that peak also decreases later, we will certainly come back to last year's numbers. That is why I have indicated that we must take into account the need to provide temporary emergency facilities for the reception of people at the peak. Afterwards, people can be captured by the outflow at regular COA locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u78	Can the Secretary of State make it concrete? Are we talking about an influx of between 20,000 and 40,000 asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u79	Last year there were 30,000 in total. With the after-travel effect, I don't expect the number to be far below. In the meantime, world peace has not broken out, as I have already said. There's pressure on many parts of the world. So I don't foresee a significant drop in inflow very quickly. Then I come to the always interesting folder with other questions. Questions have been asked about transitional rights. On the contrary, we want immediate action, not necessarily transitional. A full ex-nunc investigation can be applied to all matters that have taken place from the moment of entry into force. If the bill were adopted today, it would help greatly to prevent transitional law and legal uncertainty. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked about the accumulation of the changes. How should we see them in the problems of return policy? The directives are a careful procedure which takes account of the individual's circumstances. Willingness happens when it is in place, so that clarity can be provided as soon as possible. For this, reinforced instruments come back so that Member States can fight abuse and be ready quickly with unpredicted follow-up applications or manifestly unfounded applications. I am not hiding from the difficulties in implementing the return policy. It's not like there's no return. Thousands of people return a year, but their numbers are not as large as those of the influx. In my view, one of the key elements here is that the European countries should jointly make it clear to third countries that return is a serious matter. We should not be heard there one by one and without any consequences. I think that we should seriously associate this with other elements, because countries with which the return procedure is difficult often have different interests, in which they are the asking party. It seems fair to me that you take back people from your country who have no right to stay here. In the meantime, countries with which we have problems with the return policy are often blamed for the fact that the people they need so much to build their country are all here. Then let's start with an even better approach to return than we are now. I welcome the recent report by the ACVZ (Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs), which states that success is being achieved with what Security and Justice are doing, but that there is still room for improvement in areas where there is a need for cooperation. We had already suspected that, and that is why we requested that investigation. I am pleased that we have received concrete advice. We will inform Parliament more about this. Questions were then asked about the accelerated procedure and a comparison was made with the United Kingdom. I know a general procedure and an extended procedure. It is fast, but not accelerated, as the directive defines it. We only have a one-day test for subsequent asylum applications. That's kind of accelerated. The Procedural Directive simply allows a repeat application to be made more quickly. With the ruling on Britain, I am not aware of any extremes. However, it is also very similar because Britain has an opt-out to the directives. The exercise of applying the requirements of the directive to Great Britain is theoretically interesting, but will not in practice lead to any pressure for adaptation. Mrs Wezel asked whether there was an effective remedy, such as an effective remedy. It's about Article 47. That Article 47 has been binding since 1 December 2009 and has been part of our current law for a long time. We consider the current review to be in line with that provision. We therefore have no reason to believe that this new full review would fall under this heading. We have not done any further research, because we do not see the need to do so. If you compare the changes, linked to Article 47, they will certainly not make it more problematic. The old system already met in our eyes. Mrs Strik asked about the interesting phenomenon that the shelter ends, the four-week departure period has expired and the judge has not yet given a ruling. We assume, of course, that the ruling will be made within the time limit. If that is not the case, the case is dealt with and examined what is in the interest of both the Dutch State and the one who has been waiting a long time for his ruling. However, this is not a standard provision, because we assume that the deadlines will be met in accordance with agreements. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u80	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. From this place, I would also like to congratulate the spokesmen of D66 and the PVV on their maiden speeches held today. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. In the second term, I would like to say a few words about both the content of the legislative proposal and the context. I'd like to start with the content. The legislative proposal makes the necessary changes and there is quite a lot to say about these changes. This is also clear from the relatively long speaking time requested and given by the spokesmen on this bill. What is striking is that the Secretary of State in the documents and now in the oral reply is quite relative about the nature of the changes. We also see this in the reply he has written to us. He says that there is actually a very high degree of overlap with current law and that there is no tightening or easing of policy. On the credibility test, the reply on page 4 states that there is no material difference. I have just heard in the oral reply that it is mainly a question of the way in which a judgment is justified. Some relative comments are also made on the ex-nunc review in the reply on page 3. We have just heard in the oral answer to the question that on a number of points we still have to see how the judge will deal with it. The Secretary of State does not want to go into too much detail. So there are many changes, with the necessary questions about their interpretation and implementation and also with the necessary structural costs. I have still not heard the Secretary of State mention the intrinsic advantage of these changes, which I myself referred to in my contribution, in particular the ex-nunc test and the credibility assessment. Are those intrinsic benefits not there, or has the Secretary of State simply overlooked that question? One of the main drivers of this proposal, as well as of the directive itself, is the harmonisation of national rules on procedure and reception. My group believes that harmonisation in this area is certainly useful and even necessary. But, of course, you can ask the question, as we do, which must be exactly the level of harmonisation if there are not really very few or even in some respects any differences with current substantive law. In other words, how far should such a directive intervene in a national legal system in order to achieve the objective of such harmonisation? If you say that systems are very much alike, at one is the credibility test a little bit sister, at the other so, the motivation is slightly different, but in the end the material comes down to the same thing. If we want to go so far in our regulations, we have to go so far as to go into that very deep detail that we want to achieve harmonisation, or do we have to look at it at another level? How far does the government want to go in this? Can't you say that it looks the same in general terms, in the details it's a little bit different, the effects and the outcomes are about the same and then we'll settle for that? How far does the government intend to go in this respect, how far does such a fairly sharp harmonisation go? That is what this directive is all about. How does this relate to the intention in the fields of I and A and also in the field of the European Commission's own intentions to focus on the implementation of EU law in the coming years rather than on the creation of new rules? With that idea in mind, too, I would like to support the fact that we are concentrating a little more on other things that really play and leave the refinements of the refinements for a while for what they are. Does the Secretary of State share that vision and does he intend to make a strong commitment to it? Does he expect at the moment that there will be more of these amendments to directives of the type we are talking about and what will his attitude be in this regard? About the context, I thought the Secretary of State was a little short. I was disappointed that he could not comment more specifically on the prospects of reaching agreement within the EU on a number of points and on the government's commitment. I did appreciate that he went into our questions about the return policy. We are also aware that this is a repulsive theme. He mentioned a number of measures and ideas which, in our view, are certainly important. My only question is whether this has already been started and if so, whether the Secretary of State can be a little more specific about it, or are these just ideas which the Secretary of State says he is going to work on in the near future? It would be nice if the Secretary of State would answer these questions seriously. Furthermore, my group will support the legislative proposal because it is an implementation of a directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u82	Madam President. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van Weerdenburg. I would like to thank my fellow Members for all their kind congratulations. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering all our questions in detail. I have two more points. I hear many colleagues talking about the influx and great dramas. We all see that. There are 60 million refugees, of which 87% are taken care of in the region. In Europe, we are also dealing with large influxes. Nevertheless, I ask the Secretary of State to take a look at Mr Flip van Dyke's website. He compared the first four months of this year with the first four months of 2014. In the first four months of 2014, 5,475 asylum applications were made in the Netherlands, but in the first four months of 2015 they were 3,510. That's a 36% drop. So I'm a little confused by the panic I feel with some of my colleagues. People are afraid of huge numbers coming in. I would very much like a realistic description of the different types of figures. That doesn't necessarily have to be oral right now. That can also be done in writing. So that's my question about numbers. It is also a question of what we should be concerned about. I understand the Secretary of State has no predictive powers, but maybe he can take a look back at the past two years. The Secretary of State has briefly said something about current cases and transitional law. Forgive me, I am not a lawyer, but I can imagine that there are ongoing cases that are going on until 19 July of this year and that may not be completed yet. Perhaps there are also things that were already going on before 1 January 2015, when the work instruction came into force. I want to make sure that the implementation of the Reception and Procedure Directive does not allow people to fall between feet. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State once again. I will advise the D66 Group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u83	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the adequate and detailed answer to all the questions put. We have experienced it as a very constructive debate. I will go over a few points in the order used by the Secretary of State in his reply. It is clear that these European Union directives entail a "higher judicial review," as the Council of State calls it in its opinion. Although the ex-nunc assessment was already introduced in 2010, it is both full and integral and ex nunc. We believe that it could lead to better legal protection for asylum seekers and, hopefully, to shorter procedures. Does the Secretary of State share this impression? The next item is the medical costs associated with the application for asylum. If an application for asylum is rejected, the medical costs incurred by the asylum seeker or by third parties will not have to be reimbursed. However, we are pleased that the Secretary of State has repeatedly noted that if the medical examination paid by the asylum seeker or by third parties contributed to the grant of the application for asylum, the costs will be reimbursed by the IND and in individual cases the follow-up procedure will also be reimbursed. We have also discussed in detail the issue of border detention. Our group has taken good note of the fact that the Secretary of State really sees this as an ultimatum remedium and that he wants this detention in the spirit of the directive and the new implementing legislation to be as short as possible and to be included in the Aliens' Decision, including in those terms. Furthermore, in practice this detention will often be shorter, as it is not necessary that the standard will always last four weeks. With these observations, I would once again like to thank the Secretary of State for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u84	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply, but I would have preferred to have heard that he had come to his senses and that he understands that it is impossible for the Dutch citizen to explain that an asylum seeker costs almost three times as much as an AOW. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Weerdenburg, Mr Markuszower, Mr Van Strien, Mr Kops, Mr Kok, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Dercksen and Mr Van Hattem proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas one asylum seeker costs the Dutch taxpayer more than €36.000 per year and that this is almost three times as much as an AOW citizen gets a year;]] [[Whereas the total cost of asylum reception is now 867 million per year;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately introduce a full asylum stop and to invest the resulting savings in care for the elderly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34088-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u85	Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group has listened with interest to the intentions and views of the Secretary of State on tackling the issue of migration at European level and the answers to the questions raised by my group. As indicated in the first term, these directives were drawn up at a time when the world looked very different. This legislative proposal does not respond to those issues that have been outlined by other groups in the first period. But that's not what a bill is for. My group still has a question of substance. This relates to the costs of the case-law. The Secretary of State has said the necessary things. My group's concerns relate in particular to access to justice in general. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the additional costs involved in this bill will not result in further pressure on access to justice, in other words that the courts will keep or have sufficient budgetary space to continue to be able to speak in all possible jurisdictions? As has already been stated in the first term, my group welcomes this proposal. Moreover, it is an implementation of European directives. That, too, is a reason for my group to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u86	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to the questions. As a result of that answer, I have one more question. How is full and ex-nunc testing interpreted in neighbouring countries? Can the Secretary of State undertake to inform us more about this? How, for example, does this happen in Belgium, Germany or France?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u87	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Much has become clearer. I am pleased that the Secretary of State himself indicates that the number of refugees will not decrease rapidly, given the huge number of refugees worldwide. The vast majority of them are located in the region. A country like the Netherlands should be able to handle 30,000 asylum seekers easily. I wouldn't panic until we couldn't. I asked about the vulnerable groups who need special procedural guarantees and for whom the border procedure is not really appropriate. In response, the Secretary of State refers to FMMU's medical advice, but that is a very limited medical advice, only considering whether someone can be heard. It is not a question of examining whether this person is fit for the border procedure. Perhaps the Secretary of State could comment on how the screening could take place at a timely time. As far as judicial review is concerned, I am pleased that the Secretary of State has made it very clear that the judge must come to an independent judgment and that the way in which he does so is up to the judge himself. There is a big difference with the current marginal key, where the judge will see if the IND has taken the right steps. Now the judge really has to assess whether the assessment that the IND has linked to the asylum story is correct. Of course, the judge doesn't start in the air vacuum that would be a caricature of how he was going to work but he bases himself on the file and the decision. However, he is not limited to it. In fact, the ex-nunc test obliges him to assess all new facts and elements, as the Secretary of State also indicated. I am therefore pleased that the Secretary of State says explicitly that the judge can also test new asylum motives. The judge may allow the IND to assess these new motives and will probably do so, but within the same asylum procedure. I understand this from the Secretary of State, didn't I? I believe that this is very important not to violate the directive and to prevent an asylum seeker from entering a flawed follow-up procedure. This is particularly important for the small group of asylum seekers who have not been able to tell their story straight away, for a good reason: shame about what they have been through or the trauma they have suffered as a result. The medical examination concerns exactly this group. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is prepared to finance the medical examination in the event of subsequent applications for asylum, if that has contributed to the acceptance. Often someone makes a new application for asylum with that medical certificate. He's already had medical research done at the iMMO and he's starting a new procedure. Then it's already paid for. If it contributes to an agreement, it seems to my group to be only normal and in accordance with Article 18 of the directive that this is being financed. My final point concerns reception after the four-week departure period. It's nice that it's not often necessary for the judge to decide within four weeks. We all know it happens sometimes. In particular, if the number of applications for asylum increases, this will increase. The Secretary of State says: then we act as things stand. My point was precisely that the Reception Directive applies to everyone who is in the asylum procedure and can also wait and see in the Netherlands. Then it is not appropriate to say that one group will be relieved of this, namely those who have been given a four-week departure period. I would like to get the answer to the question on which the Secretary of State bases it that this group could be excluded from the shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u88	Mr. Chairman. I thank Members for their thanks for my answers. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked about the intrinsic advantage of the changes. That's part of the eye of the keeper, of course. One will be more charmed by the fast-moving possibilities in the event of obvious unsubstantiatedness. The other will be more charmed by the fact that the judge can now go full test. It is a value judgement whether there is an intrinsic advantage, but I would not underestimate the benefit of the process in itself. It is not the case that all Member States already had a very elaborate and crystallised process that provided enough guarantees and legal certainty. Part of the harmonisation process is aimed at establishing sound procedures in countries that have no or less yet. The fact that there is not much material change in itself after harmonization may be due to the fact that the directive does not propose much, but it can also be inferred that the directive is in favour of a model which largely corresponds to how the Netherlands has already dealt with it. This does not, of course, mean that there is little need for adjustments in all countries, but that one Member State needs to adapt less than the other, because it already broadly complied with the guarantees laid down. That brings me to the next point. The longer you go through with this, Mrs. Van Bijsterveld was right to give that to.The more you get on paper reality. It is the same everywhere, in every Member State. However, this does not mean that the procedures are the same and that everyone in every country is the same. I share her call to focus on convergence in practice. Each Member State regularly draws up an updated country policy, but we can still have 28 different country letters. Even if we take the step towards a single message of office for a particular country, it is still possible that 28 different consequences will be attached to it. These are all things that are not easy to capture in advance. The migration agenda is already a major political priority for our Presidency, but we are also aiming for convergence in practice at the level of the administration, where, of course, many processes are taking place that we do not see directly. This convergence must take place hands-on in practice. Based on practical considerations, we need to look at what is still needed on paper. What exactly is ahead of us now? The Commission is examining whether the Temporary Protection Directive should be amended or replaced. We are talking about a directive which has never actually been applied in practice. So it's not something we're really after. Furthermore, we are not aware of any plans to make great success at this level. I have already spoken about the migration agenda and the discussion I have with colleagues. What are the prospects? It's hard to say. I remember the JHA Council during which we discussed relocation and resettlement. There are really countries that are not immediately solution-oriented and do not accept that it is something that we really need to tackle together. There are countries that may still be under the illusion that if they do nothing, they will not have to deal with the problem. That is why they are not in a solution-oriented position. It's hard for me to predict anything, except it's not gonna be our fault. We are doing a great deal to speed up the adoption of proposals that can be supported. As was the case with the compulsory nature of resettlement: if it does not go as it should, then it has to do as it should, but it must de facto lead to large participation. Our commitment is that you cannot tackle with half a problem that we all bear. It has also been set in motion at the point of return. Recent research by the ACVZ has shown that we are already doing a lot of work which is paying off. In addition, we are trying to realise things that can be done better. As a practical example, I would like to mention the organisation of ambassador conferences. At such a conference I recently spoke with the ambassadors of countries with which we should have a good relationship in the field of return. I wanted to bring the problem to the fore in practical terms. This is also an element of the EU's migration agenda. A session was devoted to this at the last JHA Council. In doing so, I will work with my Belgian colleague to highlight this element and to make it clear that if the European Union wants to keep the mandate to hold talks of this kind with third countries, it must also do something about it. The first step is that this is recognised by the Commission. That's what we've achieved. This has not changed the world yet, but it is a necessary step to achieve results in this respect. That's where we stand now. The fact that I was perhaps brief in setting out the agenda in my first term is because I thought: let me summarise what we have already sent to Parliament in writing on a regular basis about our commitment and let me devote a lot of time to the questions on today's legislative proposal. That is not a reflection of the extent to which it concerns me or of how my time is divided the rest of the week between the European Union's migration agenda and these directives and legislative proposals. Mrs. Stienen asked about the size. What are we talking about now? Someone's looking at the first four months. It's tricky magic with statistics. Last year there was an extrapolation of a certain week. In the top week we had so far this year, the influx including after-travel was higher than in the highest week of last year. That's another equation, which could lead you to think: if you do 52 times, then it's a more serious matter. If you look at the first four months, the influx just started later this year. This also has to do with seasonal influences and weather conditions. So that's hard to look at. If I look a year, I see a significant increase in 2014 compared to 2013. If I do an educated guess that's not gambling, but making educated predictions on the basis of influences that we also see in migratory flows a little further away, then I come to the estimate that this year will be about the same order of magnitude as last year, unless major changes in world conditions occur. I always separate the convenience from the desirability. As long as it is so, we must deal professionally with it and ensure that people are given adequate care either if they deserve it, or quickly find out that this is not an option and that it is possible to start the return process. I also refer to the European Agenda on Migration to reduce the causes and influx.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u89	However, my group appreciates the fact that the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs is allowed to give an account of all these statistics after the recess. Indeed, we can remember how the predecessor of the Secretary of State arrived with very scary stories and extremely high figures. Then it turned out to be not so bad, even though I cannot use the word in this situation, because it is never easy that 60 million people worldwide are on the run. However, I believe that we should continue to look at the figures in a realistic way. I support Mrs Strik van GroenLinks' thinking that our country should also be able to provide 30,000 people with shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u90	If 30,000 people apply for asylum, this does not lead to 30,000 people in need of permanent care. It's temporary, but it's not permanent. I hate to quote myself, but I described it in this way last Saturday: I do not want to ring the alarm clock, but I do want to paint a realistic picture. This year, too, the influx will be about the same as last year. So far, we've seen those two running quite parallel. Not in the first four months, but in the first six months and in the first seven months, certainly. That is why provision will also be needed which is temporary in nature. I will return the figures that we have on this matter and which we measure ourselves, send to the Chamber or refer to the reports in which they are to be found, because we keep that and we add it up. On that basis, I see that we are quite similar to what we saw last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u91	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment that we will have an overview. I would also appreciate it if it was not just a few months from now, but indeed showed the trends of the last five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u92	Let me see if we can look back to five years, but at least the figures for the last few years are known. Those trends are also visible. We'll take care of that. Mrs Stienen asked a question about the right of transition between shore and ship, because there is a new justification as of 1 January. Those two go well together in themselves. The more detailed justification can also be used in the old system, but that was not necessary. Just to prevent people from falling between shore and ship, we started early. Anyone who is about to appeal with a statement of reasons for the last month can then immediately be included in the new system rather than come to court with an old statement of reasons. Just to prevent that, we started early. I'm sure you can. Mr Schrijver had a number of summaries and observations and asked me to endorse them. Yes. He also talked about the heavier burden. First we look at how it works in practice. I can't tell if it's gonna add up yet, but we're gonna keep the finger on the wrist. We can imagine it leading to an increase. That is why we are constantly talking about this and we will also take this into account in the estimates. The motion tabled by Mrs Van Weerdenburg I will not recommend. A complete asylum stop is not in line with the policy we are currently pursuing. The cabinet therefore sees no need to do so. It's not the way to keep our commitments. It is also not the way to effect a decrease in inflow. Furthermore, there is a false contradiction, as if the budget allocated to AOW or to care for the elderly in the broad sense would depend on the costs you incur for asylum. That is not the case. One link has been made in the policy, namely between first-year care and its funding from ODA funds. The only thing I could do to change that is a decoupling. However, I do not think that the PVV Group appreciates that. This link is precisely how much of the development cooperation budget is spent in our own country, on the people working at COAs. I therefore think that is not in the spirit of the motion. Mrs Duthler asked about access to justice. It is not intended to be put under pressure by this proposal. We've compensated the known effects. Structural compensation is foreseen from 2017. This compensation has not yet been quantified, because we also want to take the practical experience that has emerged in the meantime. Since financial compensation has been provided for, I have no reason to believe that this will put further pressure on access to justice. Mrs Wezel asked how neighbouring countries dressed it. I have more information on this by now. We raised this question through the European Migration Network and received a response from about 20 Member States. This shows that the vast majority already has a full and ex-nunc test in appeal and that no one makes major adjustments to this part of the directive as a result of the implementation of the directive. Our marginal test was an exception. We have transposed it; most other countries already had a full and ex-nunc test. There is no detailed information on how they do that in practice. I do not therefore have any information on the basis of which I can briefly indicate how this works. Then I should know a little better what we are looking for and which elements should be further explored. We now know that most countries have long been full and ex nunc tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u93	Multiple parties have asked what is meant by full and ex-nunckeying. Is that full, full and so forth? Can the Secretary of State undertake to check with the other countries how they interpret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u94	We can see how they have incorporated it into the legislation. I already indicated how I think it might be possible and how I wish it. We have heard a nuanced coloring of members who may have a different wish. In the end, it's up to the judge himself to shape the way he does it. He may also be inspired by case law from other countries. I can bring in the legislation of these countries, but I do not feel very strongly about carrying out a full case-law investigation while the Dutch judges themselves are shaping Dutch practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u95	It seems right to me that the judge wants to know what the legislator wants from him or her and that the legislator knows what he means by the legislation. It seems to me bad that the same concept is being implemented in different ways within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u96	That depends only on the degree of difference. We have been clear as legislators. We have had extensive debates on what we mean by full and ex-nunc testing, to what extent it makes sense to bring new elements with us immediately or to do so through an administrative loop, and whether an assessment of the work of the judge in a critical sense is the same as a re-evaluation of all aspects in a material sense. In my view, it's first up to the judge to see what he thinks of it, with our intentions. He may be guided by practices in or case law from other countries. If in the Netherlands there is a practice that would be far lower than that of other European countries, which is also based on the same directive... I have no reason to expect this.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs. Strik asked about screening for the border procedure. She said the FMMU has a limited focus. In addition to the question of whether someone can be heard, the FMMU also looks at any restrictions or indications that someone needs other guarantees. So it's a little wider. This is done in conjunction with the investigation into detention fitness or disability. That's what the medical department of the Justice Department does. That gives me sufficient confidence that we have these guarantees high in the border procedure. Furthermore, at any time in the procedure there is the watchful eye of the IND to possibly adjust things if the IND has the idea that this is necessary. So it's a broader test. I have every confidence that that will be enough. I was just saying something about desirability. Mrs Strik summarized how the debate had gone in the first term, and so did Mr Schrijver. There was a difference in nuance. I can follow Mrs Strik on many points, but I would always add the word'may'. Perhaps that betrays that I expect it to happen less and Mrs. Strik a little more. To be precise, it is an independent judgment of the judge, in the sense that he has an independent opinion on the administrative work carried out and that he has a wide range of options to choose and to consider and assess matters. I'm not imposing an obligation on the judge. He can take new facts with him in a broad sense and withdraw a new asylum motive through the loop into the procedure. It's possible. If a medical examination has contributed to the completion, then payment is made as indicated at first instance. In a subsequent case, it can be reimbursed. That's always a bit of a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u97	I understand that, but I'm glad that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u98	Through the chairman, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u99	I am pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that this can be done in subsequent procedures. We are therefore informed, either over time or after a year, of the way in which it is applied. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u100	For structural funding, we will have to look at how practice has developed. Perhaps it is advisable to take that together. From now on, this will be a year in the direction of the 2017 budget. We must then consider whether the way in which practice has developed, including in the financial sense, gives rise to further compensation. Then it also makes sense to take these elements with you. Mrs Strik had another question about the exceptions to reception. If there is no suspensive effect on the appeal, you should not wait in the Netherlands. So the Reception Directive will no longer apply to this, but then there will be an obligation to leave. There will then be four weeks of reception, unless someone applies for a provisional provision, because then there will be a right of residence. This only applies to the category without right of residence for more than four weeks, where we look at individual circumstances to determine how we will deal with it after those four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u101	You went very quickly. You said that they are not covered by the directive if they do not have suspensive effect. But if they apply for a provisional permit, they can wait and see in the Netherlands. If a judge has not yet decided on that request for an interim ruling, they may still wait and see in the Netherlands. Suppose the judge does not take a decision on that application for an interim ruling within four weeks. The asylum seeker may still wait for that request to be dealt with in the Netherlands, so he is covered by the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u102	Yeah, but that's double what-if. First of all, we are talking about the decision to be taken within the time limit, and now we have a provisional provision that will allow an interim assessment to be made of whether, despite the standard, someone can wait for the request. As long as the request has not been granted, the person concerned should not, in principle, wait for the handling in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u103	I think you just said it right: the moment you make a request for a preliminary ruling, you can wait for that request to be dealt with. The application for an interim remedy has suspensive effect, so you can stay in the Netherlands until the court decides, so you are covered by the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u104	This gives you the right to stay, which means that you do not have to hold on to detention after four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u105	Finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u106	It's not about detention. As long as you can wait for a court ruling in the Netherlands, you are covered by the Reception Directive and you are entitled to care. That is why the four-week cut made in the Netherlands is not in conformity with the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u107	That's in suspensive action. If there is no suspensive effect, the person concerned must not wait for his request to be dealt with and you will no longer be covered by the Reception Directive. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u108	You're done with your second-term response, I understand. You passed Mrs. Strik's exams.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u109	We call that Trick questions among ourselves!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u110	The bill is passed without a vote.
