ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. I'm glad you're back with us. You may also be with us tonight in this building. We've scheduled a full day of entertainment for you. It can't be any better. No less than thirteen Members of Parliament will speak. That's a big deal. I therefore urge everyone to make a brief and pointy statement and to review the texts critically. You have already had a legislative consultation of one hour and we do not need to repeat things. Everything you have already said really does not need to be said again. Be critical of your own text and be brief and pointy in your interruptions. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union will set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr President, I am going to do my best. Last week, I finished my contribution to the legislative consultation with a reference to the Pope's green encyclical, which had yet to be published, but has already been published. The papal writing was immediately noticed by his unique radical approach to climate change and the preservation of our fragile creation, God's creation. In Romans 8 it is strikingly described: Creation is prey to senselessness, not of its own accord, but by him who subjected it to it. These were prophetic words of Paul written in the Bible, God's word. The same goes for the words of Pope Francis of last week. He said, "Our house will be destroyed, and that will harm everyone." That is precisely why I like the fact that the law has given the intrinsic value of nature a place. Yesterday, the judge decided that the Dutch government should ensure that CO emissions decreased by at least 25% in 2020 compared to 1990. This is an important statement which, in my view, cannot be separated from the way in which we deal with nature in our country. In the National Nature Vision, the Secretary of State also discusses this. In her view, climate adaptation should be taken into account in nature policy. In that light, my group has the amendment to item No. 75, not in order to establish that the national nature vision itself should formulate an approach to counter climate change, but to ensure that nature policy is designed in conjunction with existing policies to address climate change. I have clarified the text of this amendment to a single part following the reaction of the Secretary of State. I therefore hope for a positive response from her side. A concern for me remains the tension between the government's obligation to achieve results and the commitment of the provinces. The Christian Union Group is a strong supporter of decentralisation and really wants to give the provinces every possible opportunity to fulfil their obligations in their own way and perhaps also a little stubbornly. At the same time, the Secretary of State must be able to effectively guide the results and achieve the objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directives. That is why I co-signed Mr Grashoff's amendment which, in the extreme, allows the Minister of Economic Affairs to lay down more detailed rules for the provincial nature vision, if otherwise the Empire would be seriously in default with regard to international obligations, with potentially significant financial consequences. Another point concerns monitoring. It is good that the Empire and provinces jointly agree on a uniform monitoring system, to avoid any ambiguity about this. This is also an important part of the Reich's obligation to achieve results and system responsibility. I have therefore co-signed Mrs van Veldhoven's amendment on monitoring systems. During the legislative consultation I had a discussion with the Secretary of State on the distribution of responsibilities. The Secretary of State then said she was going to discuss it with the provinces on a subject-by-issue basis and that she would keep the Chamber informed. I am concerned that there should be clarity with this Chamber and with the Provincial States about who is responsible for what and who is responsible for what. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas clarity in the distribution of responsibilities between the Kingdom and provinces in the implementation of the Nature Protection Act is of benefit to the House of Representatives and Provincial States;]] [[calls on the Government, the agreements reached or still being made with provinces on the allocation of responsibilities and to inform the Chamber and the Provincial States thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u3	The Christian Union considers it a great pity that landscapes and natural beauty values such as silence and darkness are not separately protected in the law. Of course, provinces have every freedom to implement policies here, and they also have planning tools to do so, but I also want to do justice to the special and independent value of landscapes. That is why I have co-signed Mrs van Veldhoven's amendment on special provincial landscapes. This amendment provides a solid basis for an option, not an obligation to state authorities to designate valuable landscapes as a particularly provincial landscape. That is why I would also like to see my amendment on item No. Sixty-four withdraw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u4	The Dik-Faber amendment (Doc. 64) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u5	This has been incorporated in Mrs Van Veldhoven's amendment. I would very much like to leave my amendment on the protection of silence and darkness. I've seen the Secretary of State isn't very excited about that yet. I hope, however, that, precisely because of the importance of these fragile values, which are increasingly under pressure from urbanization, they will reach a different verdict in the course of this debate. Then I'll join the hunt, in damage control and population management. I also noticed last week that this is a controversial issue. At first there was a nice compromise. The wild list is maintained, but there must be a setback on the basis of the hunt. However, the coalition has seriously disturbed this delicate balance. Over the past few weeks, I have had a lot of reactions to my input last Monday. Let me be clear: the Christian Union is not against hunting, but my group believes that the killing of animals must always have a real necessity and serve a clear purpose, in the fight against damage and population management, but also in hunting. I see the hunting with the aim of maintaining a reasonable wildlife in the hunting grounds of the hunter as supporting sustainable population management and the control of harm-causing animals. Proactive population management can also have a real need in this sense, namely to prevent overcrowding. I think it's important that this notion gets a place in the law. I maintain my amendment, albeit slightly modified on the basis of the debate. It's got the new number 110. The coalition parties today amended an amendment on the deletion of the discard plans. I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at this change. It is partly a technical amendment, but I also see an amendment to Article 3.12. It now says: "There are fauna management units that establish a fauna management plan for their work area. The sustainable management of populations of wild animals, the control of harm caused animals by land users and the pursuit of hunting shall be carried out in accordance with the fauna management plan.' The latter is important: according to the fauna management plan. From this I think I can see that hunters and land users are obliged to act in accordance with the fauna management plan. At the same time, applicants shall remove the obligation under Articles 3.14 and 3.18 to act in accordance with the fauna management plan. I don't quite understand this. What is the consequence of this? What resources do Deputy States and the Fauna Management Units have to act if the Wildlife Management Units or hunters do not act in accordance with the Fauna Management Plan? I understand the resistance to the firing plans. My group also does not want to impose additional administrative burdens on citizens and hunters if they are not necessarily necessary. However, my group attaches great importance to a good and transparent response. This applies to game management units and fauna management units, but also to Deputy States. I have my amendments to item No. 77 to take account, on the one hand, of transparency and, on the other hand, of the management of administrative burdens. I hope the Secretary of State will look at it with that look. For careful decision-making on the fauna management plan, it is important that Deputy States have a view on the indicative size of populations of different animal species. Here is a responsibility for the fauna management units to underpin the size of the populations on the basis of trend counts. Figures from multiple sources should be used. The amended amendment introduces into the law that the fauna management plan must contain a verifiable, quantitative justification of the indicative size of the populations of the different species that can be combated or whose population can be limited by the gun. The five species of the wild list are therefore excluded. In addition, I think it is important that Deputy States and citizens have a good understanding of the relationship between the indicative size of populations included in the fauna management plan and the numbers of animals counted and killed in a field on the day of discharge. In the coalition's amended amendment to item No. 107 is introduced for hunters the obligation to report on the numbers of animals they have killed. In my amendment, I attach an obligation to report also on the numbers of animals that have been counted in the field precisely in support of this discharge. In this way, with global ex ante censuses at the level of the fauna management unit and more detailed ex post censuses at field level, fauna management units and Deputy States gain more control over fauna management. I welcome the positive opinion of the Secretary of State on my sub-amendment which provides that the management of the fauna management unit may also invite representatives of other civil society organisations and scientists in the field of fauna management to participate in the meetings of the Board. They can also advise the board. The aim is indeed to give more freedom to the fauna management units to involve other organisations and scientists. I come to my final point, the knowledge about the management of fauna. At the moment we often obtain knowledge, skills and contacts for the management of fauna from abroad because they are not available in the Netherlands. I remembered that last week. In other countries, such as Germany, for example, there are university graduation opportunities in the field of fauna management and hunting and research is also being carried out. In the Netherlands there is a special professor of wildlife management, but this is funded by the KNJV. Since we have a lot of discussion in the Netherlands about the management of fauna and since there is sometimes no knowledge of everything about the management of fauna, it would be a good idea to raise the level of knowledge. This will also benefit the fauna management units and the Deputy States, which have to decide on this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas responsible decision-making on fauna management and hunting would benefit from the availability of sufficient knowledge among the relevant parties;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of increasing the level of knowledge in the Netherlands on wildlife management and hunting and to inform the Court of Justice by the end of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u6	So much for my input. I look forward to being answered by the Secretary of State. From the input of my group, it is clear that we hope that the Secretary of State will look closely at two important points. Firstly, we consider it very important to adequately protect the landscape and the fragile qualities of our landscape, such as silence and darkness, in this Natural Law. Secondly, we attach great importance to the transparency of hunting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u7	In response to what Mrs Dik-Faber just said, I also give a quote. "I am convinced that the suffering of this time is in no way proportional to the listen that will be revealed to us in the future." This is Romans 8:18 and is an answer to Romans 8:20. Mr. Chairman. The numbering of the amendments has taken us over 100. I was still waiting for an amendment, which would oblige everyone to leave the doors open to allow nature and wildlife to enter. It hasn't come to that. No, Mrs Thieme, this is not entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u8	I see the thumbs of the ladies of the Party for the Animals rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this way this is also included in the Acts. In fact, I would like to use this example to illustrate that not every amendment needs to be embraced by the Secretary of State. During the examination of the legislative proposal in the first period, the automatic response was on, with the text: we are not at home and advise against your amendment. My first question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she wants to check whether the automatic response is off today. I see nodding. Okay, that's off, that's good. It is clear that my group is not happy with the letter of amendment. With a number of amendments and motions, we want to make the law workable and make it more effective. I have already said that the decentralisation of nature policy can count on the support of the CDA Group. With this bill, nature policy is getting closer to its inhabitants. That's what the CDA wants. My group wants people in the region to decide on nature and how it is managed. This bill allows provinces to decide how nature can be managed, along with residents and businesses in the neighbourhood. However, the rules on nature are largely and to a large extent from Brussels. Moreover, this legislative proposal makes a number of changes to the Brussels rules. I would therefore urge the Secretary of State once again that the Fitness Check Birds and Habitats Directives should be based on European nature rules that are more focused on a territorial approach and European scope. The main drawbacks of the bill are the inclusion of intrinsic values of nature as a target definition and limiting hunting. I have tabled a number of amendments on these subjects. I find the inclusion of the target clause in the law undesirable, something the Council of State also considers undesirable. There is also no provision in criminal law which states: be kind to your fellow man. The law generally works with prohibitions. This should also be the case in this bill. Furthermore, creation has no hierarchy, not even for nature. The CDA is responsible for managing the world we live in. In it animals and nature can also be at the service of people. Steenmarters didn't really serve people. Is the Secretary of State satisfied that the control of these harmful animals is sufficiently possible, for example, by a private individual, and that any compensation for damage is also possible under the present law? I am against including the five wild species in the fauna management plans. These animals live up and walk across the land that is owned by people. These animals are abundant in the Netherlands. Why, then, should restrictions be imposed on the sustainable use of these animals? With regard to hunting, I would like to table a motion to keep pressure on zero-position policy. There are major problems with zero status policies for wild boars, among others. These animals pose, among other things, a danger to traffic and cause damage to nature. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the zero status policy for wild boars, dam deer and red deer should be maintained;]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to maintain national zero status in the previously agreed areas for wild boars, deer and red deer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u10	I told you, the CDA wants to prevent the game manager and hunter from being overwhelmed by bureaucracy. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the expected control pressure effects for hunters are high;]] [[calls on the government, provinces, to support the control pressure-lowing of the fauna management plans and their implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u11	I would also like to anticipate the evaluation prior to the inclusion of the bill in the Environment Act. The regulatory impact of the legislative proposal should be taken into account explicitly. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both SIRA and Actal strongly recommend that, before framing the Nature Protection Act in the Environment Act, the Nature Protection Act should be evaluated for regulatory pressure effects caused by "candidates," ambiguity of concepts and the problem of stacking and matching through the decentralisation of nature policy;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an interim evaluation of the regulatory effects prior to the framework of the Nature Protection Act in the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u12	Openness and accountability may be requested to some extent from stakeholders. Making the data transferred available to all contributors free of charge will have to be regulated. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas natural data contributors should be able to learn about the science and experience of other contributors;]] [[invites the Government, when further establishment of the National Database Flora and Fauna, to make the data available to all data contributors free of charge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u13	The opinion on the amendment to item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 70 has replaced, the Secretary of State has left to the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State also give her opinion on the amendment to item No. 105, that is to say, the amendment to item No. 105, that is to say, the amendment to item No. 105, that is to say, the amendment to item No. 105, that the amendment to item No. 105, that the amendment to item No. 105, that the amendment to item No. 105, that the amendment to item No. 105, that the amendment to item No. 105, that the amendment to item No. 105, that the amendment to item No. 105, that the amendment to The creation of the new Natural Law has been a process of years. The proposal has been substantially amended by the current cabinet. Especially for hunting, unnecessary bureaucracy is created, while most Dutch people are positive towards sustainable management and sustainable harvesting from nature. The Heerema/Leenders amendment restores some of that substantial change. I think I found out why we all enjoy nature so much. The German philosopher and poet Friedrich Nietzsche wrote: we love to stay in the free nature because he has no opinion about us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u14	I need to think about this. I call Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. We have talked very extensively about the Law of Nature. For ten hours. In the meantime, the number of amendments has risen to around 100. I found that at least the first 87 of them all went into the trash one by one last time. Well, that's a good thing to think about. There was one amendment with a flag and blinking through to our great irritation, may I say that the coalition party amendment to make the already not great hunting rules even more flexible. The Secretary of State has repeatedly said that he wants broad support for this law, but I wonder where that support comes from. With us, the doubt is only growing strongly whether we can support the law in this way at all. Sensitive proposals made by me, but also by colleagues from D66, SP and the Christian Union, have been wiped off the table one by one. These are changes that should be made in order to arrive at an acceptable law at the end of the day. Of course, you do not decide on that basis on your own and not with a few opposition parties, but if there is a need for a broader basis of support, and there might be a need for that, then I think it would be wise for something to move. I also heard myself once with my colleagues from GroenLinks across the street, in the Upper House. I can assure the Secretary of State that they are even more critical of it than I am. So there will have to be movement. We have a willingness to see if we can get out of it, but then there is a real need to discuss it and on a number of points some of the amendments will really have to finish in this process, I also say in the direction of the coalition parties. I'll mention the four pain points. First of all, the protection of the countryside. If we do not find a reasonable anchor in this law, that is a huge missed opportunity. One of the basic building blocks of Mooi Nederland was precisely the power of the combination between nature protection and landscape protection. We cannot and must not miss that opportunity. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mrs van Veldhoven's amendment on this point, which, in my view, is about to come back in its amended form. I hope we can get out of there. Nature protection is or falls under very strong monitoring, which should therefore be enshrined in the law. We can still play ping-pong about how to do it neatly and where exactly what responsibilities lie, but monitoring is part of it. I would like to say the following about the power of the Minister to intervene if the Netherlands does not comply with international obligations. Yes, the Secretary of State said in the first place that there is legislation for this in general. However, I do not want to see any legal grievances arising as to whether or not there are and to what extent the directors have powers to intervene and in good time, so not after the fines are inside and may be settled within the Netherlands. That reference is too general for me. I therefore want a very clear hook in this law, which refers to those powers, in such a way that there can be no misunderstanding. I shall be tabling an amendment to that effect, partly on behalf of Mr Smaling and Mrs Dik-Faber, and also to Mrs Van Veldhoven, but I have not yet been able to fully verify that. But that's obvious. It is a clear rule that refers to strong powers that the Minister has. We have seen that the unfortunate motion by Mr Heerema and Mr Leenders has been slightly revised. I cannot help but notice that nothing has changed the essence of the problem. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dan ook niet anders dan vaststellen dat dit wat onze fractie betreft echt onvoldoende is.]] There is still no guarantee that there will be reasonable planning when it comes to hunting. It should be, and it was meant to be. Again, there is no need, not even at GroenLinks, to realize a heavily rigged process of endless counts in detail, but that does not have to stand in the way of each other. What is happening here is a piece of administrative burdens, which the child was thrown away with the bath water and there is insufficient control, including through the fauna management units, of actually controlling the hunt. That will have to change as far as we are concerned. In this respect, I wholeheartedly support Mrs Dik-Faber's sub-amendment. This may well lead us, although that does not approach our ideal around the hunt by far, to a somewhat acceptable final shot. These are really the issues that will weigh heavily on the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in our final vote for the law. I'll make no mistake about that. In the first period, we discussed in detail the meadow birds. I have noticed, also from the Secretary of State, that the care is shared. We attach great importance to the fact that there will be a very solid package. It's five to twelve. If you have already lost 60% to 70% of your meadow birds and some species, such as the field lark, 95% while the partridge has almost completely disappeared from the Netherlands, then it is really five to twelve. Something solid has to be done. This does not avoid a solid coordination between the state level and the provinces concerned in that area. That is why I would like to table a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that national and international surveys, such as the recent State of Nature report, show that the number of meadow birds in the Netherlands is falling alarmingly;]] [[believes that the Netherlands has a unique position in the protection of meadow birds;]] [[noting that provinces are primarily responsible for species policy, including meadow birds;]] [[noting that, pursuant to Article 1.11, the present Nature Conservation Act has the possibility to establish a programme by general measure of governance to improve the conservation of species;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the provinces, to come forward with country-covering proposals aimed at maintaining and restoring grazing bird populations for the 2016 budget treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Leenders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u16	Would you stand still for a moment? There is another question from Mr Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u17	Speaking of the last motion on meadow birds, which is an important subject, I have one more question. Is this also meant by GroenLinks that predators of meadow birds should be able to be managed? So should means, such as lasers, be included in this plan of action to scare off geese, but which also drive away grazing birds? After all, these are also causes for the decline of pasture birds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u18	I do not quite understand the question, but in general I would like to say the following to Mr Heerema. If you say: there will be a robust programme for the protection and conservation of meadow birds, this is to a large extent aimed at creating habitats in which those meadow birds can actually thrive. This can go hand in hand with agriculture. It can even go hand in hand with agriculture, but with the necessary measures and precautions, so that meadow birds can actually breed there, hatch nests and so populations can recover. In any case, I am referring to the substance of my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u19	I therefore note that all kinds of possible measures could be included. Those are measures which can constitute a contradiction when it comes to managing or driving away geese or stray cats. After all, it is the meadow bird species that need to recover; perhaps you should leave a feather with the other species.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u20	I'm not gonna talk about that right now. We do not have to, because we have a lot of expertise in the Netherlands with nature organisations and experts in this area in order to come up with a good programme. What is part of that is reflected in the proposals. I'm not gonna lock anything in right now, and I'm not gonna rule anything out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u21	Mr. Chairman. We live in a small country with a lot of people. No one will have missed that. The area we spend on nature is scarce. That makes this debate by definition important. Given the fact that there are so many people living on a small surface and the fact that nature is scarce and we do not have climax vegetation like in the Amazon forest because the conditions are not like that, we must be careful. The question is: who should be careful? The answer to that is everyone. However, in a legislative and regulatory process as we have it now, you have to put it first that the Empire sets the framework for that. Those frameworks must be such that protection has a level that we, preferably all of us in this Chamber, can live on and on which people in the country can be satisfied. As far as my group is concerned, this framework was not properly established in the first period. I will say a few words about this in a moment, but I would first like, with the approval of the President, to move on to a few amendments and motions on this matter. First of all, in the perspective of the SP, the Empire lets go too much: too many nature reserves and too many species to date. 205 species are said to be: aju, umbrella, including a lot of redlisted species. We just shouldn't want that. We must decide here today that the fragile nature is worth protecting. The whole concept of 'intrinsic value', about which so many philosophical reflections have been held, is of no value if we do not decide here with each other to provide sufficient protection for nature at a rich level. The fact that everything is carried out at the implementation level, at the experience level, at the exploitation level, at provincial and municipal level is fine. But we must strive here today to decide, as a country, what we consider important in the field of nature. We have tabled a new amendment, which I would like to have the State Secretary's opinion on. That amendment in part No. 113 is concerned with a transitional arrangement which we would like to see in order to ensure that the protection of natural monuments, as is currently regulated by the law, is kept in order until the province itself includes it in the management plan. There is also a motion for a resolution, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the provinces, experts and other stakeholders, to review the list of 63 protected natural monuments outside Natura 2000 and to report to the Court before the end of the year on the following matters:]] [[What area loses which management plan, what protection is lost and what are the practical consequences?]] [[Which of these 63 areas will benefit from a different form of protection and where is this more or less than "protection under the status of protected natural monument"?]] [[what possible threats are there, such as real estate projects, to the nature areas concerned?,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u22	As far as species protection is concerned, I have a similar couple. The amendment in part No. 51 has been amended and now the amendment to item No. 51 has been amended. 114. Here, too, the request to the Secretary of State to give an opinion on this matter. That's what the next motion is attached to. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 205 species, such as the seahorse and the sand bumblebee, are losing their protection with the new law compared to the current law;]] [[Whereas according to Dutch species protection organisations, united in Species Protection Netherlands, the vast majority of these 205 species are still on the red list and that, if the criteria of the present law are applied, at least 88 species of red list species are still under threat of survival, need urgent protection and are threatened by human action;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with experts from the species organisations, to review and reject the missing 205 species against the criteria of the new law and to report on the substance to the Chamber by the beginning of 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u23	"Decentral, unless" is a mantra that is often used. Yesterday during the examination of the Environment Act, I also talked about this. I think it's a wrong starting point. Every action in the physical environment, whether city, village, ommeland or outskirts, has its ideal level of scale. One thing you do best for yourself, as an individual, or as the owner of a company. The other goes with the municipality, with the province, with the Empire, with Europe, or is even global in nature. It is therefore not the case that everything is best invested in a decentralised way, unless there is a need to invest it at a higher level. That is a false starting point, and unfortunately it has been used to really undress this law in all possible ways. What remains is a minimum package, and as far as the SP is concerned, this is not desirable. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to reflect once again on that "decentral, unless." Why is there a need to send so much of what we can protect to a lower level, and not to link it to a mandatory protection regime? In this context, I would also like to receive a response to the amendment tabled later, which calls for municipalities to be able to designate areas as protected areas. I think some municipalities would need that. Decentral nature policy also has other disadvantages. The monitoring system differs from one province to another. So you're dealing with twelve different types of monitoring. State forestry must join at twelve tables instead of one. The Department of Rural Area that was a fine national body.... no longer exists. That may not be possible to reverse, but it really shouldn't have happened. Many species also live in larger areas. In ecological circles, the concept of "metapopulation" is something on which there is general consensus. This is a chain of areas where species occur. If you're talking about peat bogs in the East of the Netherlands, you're talking about both the Bargerveen and the Twente Veenregions and the Korenburgerveen; you already have three provinces together. So you have to think about habitats where species that you think are important, whether they are plants or animals, can best stay in this overcrowded country. I'm going on the hunt now. This is a very disappointing point for my group. We were looking forward to this legal process, but the amendment tabled by the two government parties is turning this law completely upside down as far as my group is concerned. I can also count, and I see at least 76 fingers going up in this amendment. Last week I heard at the beginning of the day, when we discussed Mrs Thieme's own initiative proposal, both Mr Leenders and the Secretary of State say: we are going to carry out the pleasure hunt today. Does the Secretary of State still consider that, taking into account the text of the amendment and the amended text of the amendment, which, in our view, does not bring any improvement? Yesterday, the groups of GroenLinks, the Animal Party and SP heard a number of experts on this amendment. It was noted that animal protection organisations are not known at all in this amendment. Prelude to the participation of animal protection organisations in Fauna management units is therefore completely at stake. That is a kind of premise that lies underneath the amendment, without any doubt as to whether these organisations need it. In this small country, we must strive for a wild list zero. Even the five species that are quite huntable, apart from the only exotic species in between, are sometimes too few and sometimes too much. That could have something to do with illness or the weather. However, there is no need to shoot rabbits, wild ducks and hares. The only need for waste is, as far as we are concerned, population management or harm reduction. And that must be based on a set-off plan that can be understood before firing can take place. That is a civilisation step that we must now take in this country. I was hoping we could have that too. I am afraid this is not going to work, and I am extremely sorry about that. I hope the level of "landscape" will come back to the bill. A number of colleagues have been working in sweat between the first term and now to come up with good proposals. That's what the SP contributes to. I must say that I have been the most lazy of those who drew this, but that does not alter the fact that I think this is extremely important. For years, the SP has advocated a role of landscape as broker between agriculture on the one hand and nature on the other, which so polarized determine the political debate. That is necessary, because people also enjoy a landscape. This often includes a cultural landscape and a natural landscape, but also beautiful farmhouses or landscape elements such as their beds or woodwalls. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will be able to accept these amendments. A law such as this requires broad support, and the Secretary of State has also asked for it in her first term, but of course you have to earn it. You have to work to get that done, for example by analogy with the Environment Act, which we discussed yesterday. As far as I am concerned, that was invitation legislation, which also asked the opposition parties: what is so important to you that it really needs to be included in the Environment Act? My group has given birth to this method. As a result, this broad basis of support is also more or less self-evident, even during the entire run-up in which the Environmental Act has evolved towards a treatment. And now, unfortunately, I have to note that, as with the Milk Cattle Act, the opposition is treated to a genuine machine gunfire of dissuaded amendments. There was also a period during which the opposition was completely out of play and could only wait and see if white smoke, black smoke or other smoke came from the Sistine Chapel of this Secretary of State. That's just not the way to create a broad support for a bill. It is power play, and the issue with the amendment has disturbed me extremely. The gentlemen are free to table any amendment, but I think it is a shame. We are not finished with the debate, but at the moment the SP is far from agreeing to this bill. But as I said, the debate is not over yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u24	I understand the disappointment of Mr Smaling and the SP. However, I would like to put a question to him. There are four things in the present proposal, partly as a result of the amendment. There will be an integral plan for three hunting regimes; this is not the case under the current law. There will be a reporting obligation. There will be a publication obligation, which was not mandatory in the current law. And there will be participation of nature organisations, including animal welfare organisations. This is a legal anchoring which gives them a position in controlling the fauna management units. Does Mr Smaling consider this to be an improvement on the current law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u25	I have already said that I have read the amendment and I do not think it is any improvement. This is also due to the fact that some of the crucial issues dealt with in this amendment, including no advance plan, have led to such a major intervention in what was initially stated in the legislative proposal, that we really cannot live with it. I was very surprised yesterday that the organizations referred to by Mr Leenders were not familiar with this amendment. Even sub-amendments tabled by several Members to give the animal protection organizations a role in addition to Mr Leenders' and Mr Heerema's amendments, are probably not even appreciated by these organisations, because they could lose their supporters altogether. I relied on the election programme of the Labour Party in which there is a single sentence: we are going to put an end to the pleasure hunt. She could have done that here, but at an early stage she gave in to things that are always happening in a coalition. Mr Leenders should have realised this earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u26	It's a long story, but it's not an answer to my question. I understand Mr Smaling's disappointment about the bill, but I asked if he would find this new law with these elements an improvement on the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u27	If Mr Leenders asks my opinion on the law as a whole, the answer becomes even more extensive than the one I just gave. I have just spoken about the amendment tabled by Mr Leenders and Mr Heerema. I repeat that this amendment affects our view of the law as a whole in such a way that our consideration of the whole legislative proposal has changed. We also have problems with other things such as the question of whether or not you decentralise and protect. That also plays a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the Nature Protection Act. This is an important law, because he sees essential groups for our society: farmers and hunters. As far as my group is concerned, it is essential that this law should be an improvement and that the harassment and discouragement of farmers and hunters should finally stop. This place actually seems to go wrong right away. For example, this bill continues to require farmers to pay €300 for reporting damage. In addition, damage below €50 is not reimbursed and there is €250 own risk. All in all farmers go into the ship every time a flock of geese eats a field, for €600. This is a thorn in the eye of my group. Such disenfranchisement policy means that crop damage suffered by farmers is reported less and less often. For example, figures from the Fauna Fund show that fewer notifications were made in 2014, but a record amount of more than 13 million was paid out. Is the Secretary of State prepared to remove this amount of treatment? I would like a clear answer to this question. Another tricky point in this law is the position of hunters. Hunters account for a large part of our professional nature management. Together they manage various populations. Without hunters nature in the Netherlands could be much worse. I refer to the failure of the Oostvaardersplassen that without the management of professional hunters every winter is a huge tragedy. You would therefore expect that their work would be widely appreciated by all parties in our Parliament, but unfortunately nothing less is true. Left and a small part of foreign worlds move heaven and earth to forbid hunting. Under the leadership of the decadence that has become flesh in our Parliament, the Party for Animals, the Left has been acting for years against what is called pleasure hunting, but in fact simply called exploitation. This frame shows little ratio and a lot of emotion. It is an anti-hunting campaign of the extreme animal lobby, based on the image of animals like plush stuffed animals and talking Disney figures. It even goes so far that the Animal Party has in its election programme that there is no place for hunting in nature. The fact that also animals hunt and so it is very natural to think of foxes or lions, for example, is apparently not common knowledge. That's too bad. My group points out the sentiment that has just been outlined because it leads to a situation that tends to demonise hunting. One seems to put the hunt away as something negative, as something that serves no purpose. That is misleading and incorrect. Does the Secretary of State also see this development? I will deal with the recently submitted repair proposal. This ensures that hunters do not face a huge bureaucracy in advance. We can now report afterwards and do not have to count how many animals there are anymore. That's an improvement, I'm sure. However, in exchange for this ex post reporting, there will be an additional seat on the boards of fauna management units. My group is concerned that this seat will soon be hijacked by activist organisations, so that the hunter can still face additional barriers. Can the Secretary of State undertake that the completion of the additional seat will not lead to this? Unlike this VVD/PvdA cabinet, my group wants to give our hunters a job. It's possible. The population of species that are already huntable has remained stable in recent years. If this bill is indeed intended to bring about less regulatory pressure, then the Secretary of State will certainly go along with our proposal to extend the list of species to include successful species such as the gray goose and the wild boar. I'd like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. In order to strengthen my input, I submit two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch farmers are still suffering serious damage as a result of porridge by geese on agricultural land;]] [[noting that the Fauna Fund applies a €300 treatment per claim application;]] [[whereas many farmers in the Netherlands no longer report damage because the possible compensation does not outweigh the administrative burden and the investment of their own money;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the amount of treatment for petitions to compensate for damage to bones is deleted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u29	This point was dealt with in the first period during the WHO, and I did not see your party. I find it extraordinary that you are now tabling a motion on this item while the province is discussing it. How are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u30	The Secretary of State may still be steering. We hope for guidance from the Secretary of State, as our group has already indicated in last year's budget debate. And indeed, we are small and cannot be present everywhere. That is why we are here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u31	Of course, everyone is allowed to stand here, but read the treatment that preceded it. You come in the middle of it and you come in with a motion that cannot be carried out at all because the province is about it. I have the amendment to item No. 94. That raises this point. I note now that your group will be able to support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u32	Of course, it is never superfluous to repeat that you like to send when it comes to the Secretary of State. I also expect the CDA to support our motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u33	I also quoted that €300 fine in the first term. In view of the response and the situation that Mr Geurts has just outlined, we may not be able to support this motion. I want to make that clear, otherwise it would seem that we are not supporting a farmer-friendly motion. But it must be feasible; that is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u34	Again, it's a steering motion and she's enforceable. We like to send in a secretary of state who, in our view, is not doing well. Then there's our final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch farmers are still suffering serious damage as a result of porridge by geese on agricultural land;]] [[noting that a large part of this damage is caused by the gray goose;]] [[Whereas the grey goose is already hunted by the complex and time-consuming exemption system in almost all provinces;]] [[calls on the Government to include the grey goose as a huntable species on the list of wild species,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mr Van Klaveren has taken another old PVV point, I really appreciate that! The PVV wants to preserve the former Dutch landscapes as we have known them for centuries, without any interference from Brussels. In order to reduce the burden on entrepreneurs, the PVV wants a single flora and fauna database to be created, so that the same research is not always needed in the case of an application for authorisation. I am deliberately not going to table any motions because I find that because of the cordon plumbing that is currently available around our party, but I would like to make a few more requests to the Secretary of State, not in the form of motions but by reading them, to see if the Secretary of State can do anything with them. In the past, I have also succeeded when the Chamber did not support me, when the cabinet said: that is sympathetic, we take over. We do not want farmers to have to pay €300 in the event of natural damage. The Secretary of State has explained that a motion such as that of Mr Van Klaveren is not enforceable. Then, of course, there is no point in it, so we will not be able to support that motion either. The Secretary of State may be able to respond to this, because we, even as tolerant partner of Rutte I, as the PVV Group, have also voted in favour of decentralisation. Despite the fact that we voted in favour of this decentralisation, we want to prevent the provinces from getting a patchwork of rules. The Secretary of State has already said a few things about this. Several amendments and motions have been tabled to prevent this. I will look with my group at what we are going to support. I myself have only tabled one amendment between the whole of the diarrhea of amendments. This has to do with the fact that the term "intrinsic value of nature" is included in the bill. We want to get them out of there, because that term is not legally framed and cannot be translated unequivocally. This can create a great deal of uncertainty and can lead to endless discussions and/or legal processes. We suspect that I have often had these discussions with predecessors of this Secretary of State, Mr Delors, that this will lead to the same problems as words such as'significant' or'significant'. The only people who are going to benefit from this are lawyers and indirectly judges, who get a lot of work through it. This leads to endless court cases, because it is not easy to describe what this intrinsic value of nature is. The Secretary of State will not be able to tell you that in a few minutes; no one can, not even a judge could. The same applies to the words "significant" and "essential." Let us be very clear, we are against pleasure, pressure and drift hunting. It's been in our election program since 2006. Only, when a male runs around with a broken leg, it is often best to euthanize that, if it is a wild animal, by means of a bullet. That's just the fastest death, an even faster death than when you take your cat or your dog to the vet, who first gives a burning syringe in his leg, in his heart or through an infusion. It's gonna take a lot longer than a bullet. That is why we say that emergency fire must be possible by professional forest rangers. Or rather by veterinarians, who also know much more about the anatomy of animals and who can kill an animal much better. There are a lot of vets who can shoot well with a gun and who also have a permit for that. It may still be done by well-educated animal police officers, who may also be allowed to walk around with guns. That would be our ideal. Then it must be done by a one-on-one shot and not by pleasure, pressure or drift yacht. I would like to make that quite clear once again. In fact, we have also once submitted a list of dozens of alternatives, such as the use of lasers, blasts or gas guns, or other crops, to drive animals away, including the government. It appears to be very successful at Schiphol Airport. The Secretary of State nods, she can confirm that. Schiphol has been very successful with this, also with the gas guns, with K1, K2, K3 and the cars that drive around there without the need to kill animals unnecessarily in the future. I ask the government to put an immediate end to the pleasure, pressure and drift hunt and only allow emergency fire by professional forest rangers and/or veterinarians, and possibly animal policemen. We therefore also support Mrs Thieme's initiative law. We have been calling for more enforcers to be deployed in the fight against poaching and illegal hunting since 2007. We even asked for the officers to come back, so Bromsnor, the man with authority for whom everyone is afraid, especially poachers. That really needs to happen. In some areas, arrest teams are already being deployed against poaching because people from the former Eastern bloc are carrying machine guns. They're in the middle of something dangerous. In Brabant, arrest teams have been deployed on several occasions. Take care of that. If the animal police aren't going to be made up of those 500 men for the time being, make sure that the current 180 task officers become fulltime. Then we're a whole lot further. The Secretary of State may be able to influence this. If there is an emergency discharge to be made, can the Secretary of State ensure that hunting dampers are used? With one shot, to kill one animal, tens to maybe hundreds of animals flee. Such a sound carries miles away and causes unnecessary fear and panic in other animals. I would ask the government to make a guard mandatory for the people of the forest, the animal police or veterinarians if there is to be an emergency fire. I would also ask whether the government can mediate that our Royal House is finally setting a good example. I've already tabled a motion on that once. I believe that our king is willing to do so, but it is possible for the government to mediate that at least there is a stop to hunting. She may be able to trace the condition. I think it's already stopped, but the Secretary of State may be able to say something about that. I'm not aware of it. I call for special attention to fish poaching. It's all about nature, but I'm very much on control, enforcement, and detectives to catch assholes from society and to deal with non-sustainable farmers. We want more supervision and enforcement, including against fish poaching. That's part of nature, too. This affects both our sport fishermen and our professional fishermen. It's very serious. I heard from a Friesland policeman that thousands of kilos of eel are being poached. It just can't be. I have just said that we want the government to ensure that national police arrest teams are deployed to deal with heavily organized gangs, particularly in forest and dune areas. We want to increase the number of green boas in the fight against poaching equipment, including for monitoring the excavation of eel traps. In fact, this is even putting our eel management plan at risk. I also ask the Secretary of State for the commitment... were you talking about my stomach, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u36	No, we had a little discussion. You just argued for the return of Bromsnor. We were just talking about whether Fat Door also...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u37	I thought you meant my belly. I heard Fat Door and I thought, "I'm sure that's meant for me."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u38	Fat Door was someone from Pipo de Clown, one child series away. Please continue quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u39	Mr President, I am doing my best to keep my stomach under this table. That's why it saddened me that you'd seen it anyway. I'm gonna work on it during the summer recess. I was at the eel management plan. I would ask the government to ensure that, with the highest priority, priority one in professional jargon, it can be reported if there is indeed organized crime in nature and certainly in poaching in the act. I informed the Secretary of State that green boas should also be able to work outside county boundaries. Recently, a green boa caught two poachers just outside its provincial border. Those were two hunters, too. Their hunting license had already been revoked. He caught them, but that man was called to order by some high-ranking man. He said he was outside his county boundaries and that this wasn't true. I think that's very sad. It can't be. Such a green boa should be able to intervene in any province, even if he is on holiday in Limburg. He's 24/7 boa. We must cherish those people. We must give them those opportunities and not grab them. My next request may sound very bad, but I am asking for the capital subsidies that the government pays to natural kolchozen like State Forestry, Natural Monuments and the provincial Landscapes to be cut. I mean this for the benefit of relief for our farmers and citizens. That is also a little bit because I think that two of the parties I mentioned have been guilty of non-compliance with animal care obligations. I call the Oostvaardersplassen or the dune areas around Amsterdam. Shame has happened to animals who have been there starving and thirsty. It can't be. I ask the Secretary of State to look into that and punish them if necessary by taking the subsidies if they continue to do so. Finally, I would like to ask whether no more time and money can be wasted on depolisation plans of good agricultural land for the benefit of nature reserves. Good farmland is nature. You can see the most beautiful creatures hovering around. Many left-wing parties call Schiphol bad for nature, but there are nowhere as many animals as at Schiphol. They have to scare away the geese and the rabbits, who flock to them massively. Somehow, animals don't care about an airport or highway. That's why I'm asking you to handle that well. I also ask the Secretary of State to refrain from further implementing Natura 2000 legislation. We have been against it since 2006, but we have not been able to stop it. We must now opt for second best action. It only affects people, farmers and many animals. I'm asking the Secretary of State to stop. Make a clenched fist to the EU, as France and Germany often do. I'm always told that we want to be the best kid in the class over the back of our own people and animals. I do not want to do that, especially when it appears that the nature objectives cannot be achieved at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr. Chairman. For me, a five-hour plenary session would not have been necessary. After all, we have had a lot of discussion in the first term. I have clearly indicated how the VVD is looking at this law and where it wants to see improvements. I am now focusing my contribution mainly on a look back at the first term. In addition, I will make a number of comments on the huge list of amendments. Let me be honest: I was a little surprised how strongly there was a sensible compromise between the VVD and the Labour Party in order to achieve fewer rules and burdens and more transparency in hunting. I believe that we have been able to create a win-win situation which should attract a large part of this Chamber. I have listened carefully to the comments and reactions. In my opinion, the comments concerned in particular the position of damage control and the clarity of fauna management plans. The Labour Party and the VVD have therefore amended the text. In doing so, we want to clarify that both damage control and population management as well as exploitation must be included in the fauna management plan. The plan needs to be made clear as soon as it's approved. I hope that this has enabled us to meet a number of parties. I am well aware that it will always be insufficient for a number of parties. But I am also clear about that: making demands but not wanting to think along, makes little room for me to be constructive. The sub-amendment to item No. 78 of the Christian Union is a valuable addition to our Amendment No. 53. That's what we meant. It is good if this is clarified further. I will therefore support the sub-amendment. The same applies to the sub-amendment to item No. 82 of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. This sub-amendment is aimed at guaranteeing cross-border effects and I agree with that. I'll back it up. In the first term, I had a brief debate with Mrs Van Veldhoven on the protection of landscape elements. For the amendment I was initially able to push, but it should be limited. I see that Mrs Van Veldhoven has worked constructively with the comments and I can therefore support the revised version. The amendments to documents Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u41	I would like to thank the VVD Group for supporting our sub-amendment No. 78 on the involvement of civil society organisations and scientists. I have tabled another sub-amendment on transparency, which we both very much want. The VVD Group has included in its new amendment that there is transparency about the delivery of data by hunters. Frankly, I cannot find anywhere in the new proposed articles where it says that the information that the hunters have is delivered to the fauna management units. Where exactly does it say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u42	We have included in our amendment the need for a planned and effective approach. Of course, that cannot be done without the provision of data. In this way we have also been able to spar with Natural Monuments. Natural monuments therefore responded very positively this morning to the fact that there is now a compromise that they can support. In short, we have packaged this efficient and planned approach. It may not be as you would have liked it to be, but this is what we meant by it. As I know, it was also picked up by civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u43	It's all well and good that this is the intention, but it just isn't there. The amendment states: transparency, differentiated by species that have been killed. So that's after. The amendment contains the fauna management plan, but it does not specify it. The explanatory memorandum does state that a planned and efficient approach is envisaged, but there is no pre-existing transparency of data based on global censuses. This amendment really does not anchor it, and that is why I ask the VVD Group to take a closer look at this and perhaps include our amendment in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u44	I'll definitely take a good look at it. In my opinion, this amendment has certainly enabled us to ensure that the fauna management plans become transparent once they have been approved. The fauna management plans shall consist of data to ensure the planned and efficient approach. I think that's where everything comes together. Once again, it may not have been written down as you would have liked, but we are achieving the same outcome in terms of transparency in advance. After all, the fauna management plans with everything in them are becoming insightful. You tell me that I need to take a closer look at this and that I need to include your amendment. I'm definitely not the worst, and I'm definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u45	I am taking up the point in the amendment to item No. 107 by Mr Heerema and Mr Leenders. The actual legal text states: the sustainable management of populations of wild animals, the control of harm caused animals by land users and the pursuit of hunting are carried out in accordance with the fauna management plan. That gives some hope. However, I read in the explanatory statement: the amendment ensures that, as in the Flora and fauna law itself, the hunter is responsible for maintaining a reasonable wildlife in his hunting field and for preventing damage caused by wildlife in his hunting field. In my opinion, there is considerable tension between what is in the operative part and what is in the explanatory statement. I would ask Mr Heerema to go into that again. I have the feeling that at least a piece of old text has been left in the explanatory statement which should be replaced by something like: planned according to the fauna management plan. "Planned" means that there is a prior knowledge of what you are going to do and that it is afterwards verifiable. Mr Heerema said, in response to Mrs Dik's interruption, that the word "planally" is in it. I have looked at it again, but I do not really see the word 'planning' in the explanatory statement to the amendment. I do come across this passage and therefore it seems to me that Mr Heerema still has two thoughts with this amendment and the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u46	I'm really fighting that. You say it doesn't say it, or hardly does it say it, but it just says "planningly." We welcome this too, because we also welcome the fact that data is collected and supplied to the fauna management units so that they can draw up a plan. It is also a good thing that this plan is made clear once it has been approved. This is a much better expression of transparency in hunting, and that is only good. You say there's tension in it. I don't see the tension. You're suggesting there's this tension, but that's absolutely not what it looks like to me. The amendment makes it very clear what we intend to do, namely to ensure that we act in accordance with the fauna management plans. The fact that a hunter is then responsible in his own hunting field makes no sense to me. But these fauna management plans are simply the guideline that needs to be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u47	That is a very relevant point. The difference between the legal text and the explanatory statement could lead to misunderstandings in the world and we should not want that as legislators. In my view, it is a general interest that legislation is unambiguous. I can't help but notice that there's this tension. When I see it, a lot of others will see it too, with the risk of it being abused.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u48	I really don't see it that way. I am confident that this amendment will soon be incorporated into the law, if it is sufficiently supported, and that this law will be passed in this Chamber and then in the First Chamber, despite the fact that Mr Grashoff's party probably does not participate, if I have understood correctly. In particular, we need to see what it looks like in the region. The Royal Hunters Association has responded positively, Natuurmonumenten has responded positively. Let's test these fauna management units first; let's see how it goes. I'm confident it's gonna be okay. Mr Grashoff may not have that confidence because he is looking at what could go wrong. I am a positive person, a liberal, and I especially see things that can go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u49	The coalition parties have put the fauna management units at a distance, let's not beat around the bush. There may be a social organisation, they may talk about a planned approach, but these coalition parties have deleted Articles 3.12 and 3.14 (4), namely the obligation for hunters to act exactly as laid down in the discharge plan and fauna management plan. So they can make nice decorations here, and I would like Mr Heerema to respond by saying that planning is suddenly being done within the fauna management units, but there is no sanction for the fact that the hunters are going to hunt in a different way. The hunters don't have to leave anything to do with these fauna management plans, so it's just a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u50	These are the words of Mrs Thieme, who, in my opinion, speaks out against hunting at all kinds of times and in all kinds of rooms. I also believe that if she looks at hunting, damage control, exploitation hunting and population management in this way, she will not be able to accept this proposal. That's okay. That's okay. I accept that and I hope she can accept it. I see the light she sees, much less. It is quite clear in the amendment that the fauna management plan is a guiding principle for how to act. That's what it says. Then it may have been removed from another article number, as Mrs Thieme says, but it is stated in the amendment: the fauna management plan is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u51	It doesn't say that. All there is is is an order on the fauna management units to create a fauna management plan. The coalition parties then remove the obligation, which was still contained in the bill, for the hunters to act in accordance with the discharge plan and the fauna management plans. That is the major problem that lies on the table with this amendment. I know that the Labour Party is now desperately trying to make something nice out of it through an interrupting debate, but the fact remains that the hunters are given all the space. That is very convenient for Mr Heerema, so I also understand very well that he is sitting here doing his story very content and quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u52	In my opinion, I have never done anything else in this Chamber, so that means that I should be content on all subjects, and I think I have. We really look at that differently. The Party for Animals and the VVD are, in my opinion, opposed to each other in this dossier. I accept that, and I believe that the Animal Party will accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u53	I just heard Mr Heerema say in a response to Mrs Dik-Faber that he wanted to look at the point she mentioned. I can also imagine that the Labour Party and the VVD do not write such a plan for the management of fauna in the law and then leave open the possibility that there is nothing to be done about it. Would Mr. Heerema at least be prepared to check whether there have been unintended loopholes in the law with regard to the principle that you are planning and that you are doing it according to such a fauna management plan? After all, you're not drawing up such a plan for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u54	There has rarely been an amendment as often in my hands as this one. I think I have seen, read and read it fifty times in the last few days, but of course there can always be something unintentional in it. It is also a five-page amendment. So yes, I certainly want to look into that and I will also contact my colleague. If there's anything else in it unintentionally, we're gonna act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u55	Thank you very much, because we are, of course, drawing up a plan so that it becomes a guide to action. I think we'll be a little closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u56	Among the amendments that have been tabled recently, I am sure there are some that I will support. I am glad that we can make this bill a little better together. In my first term, I asked two clear questions to the Secretary of State. I also considered tabling motions on those two points. The first point was to involve the social field in the implementation and implementation of this law, in order to avoid unintentional policy accumulation. Did I understand correctly from the first-term reply that the Secretary of State will take over recommendation 5.1.7 from the SIRA report on regulatory pressure? In addition, I had a question about the installation of an evaluation moment in the run-up to the landing of the Nature Act in the Environment Act, so that we get a clear picture of how the regulatory pressure develops with this law. I believe that the Secretary of State has also made a commitment to me on this. Just for my own comfort: this is true, isn't it? The Secretary of State has already at first reassured me on another point, especially with her response to the possible restriction of access on the ground if this is a Natura 2000 site. This does not seem to be the case in practice. I have made my observations on this subject in the second term. Some of the amendments have loosened the tongues. It is a pity that a number of parties remain in the pits, to speak with the words of Mr Geurts. My assessment is that we in the Chamber are not at all so far apart in the field of nature. Of course, on some points, but I think the main line is being worn more broadly. All Dutch love nature, like to walk in it, enjoy the peace and use nature as it is possible. Whether you're from the VVD or the SP or any other party, I think we share that image. I therefore sincerely regret that it seems that a much greater contradiction is being created than there really is. A year and a half preparation for this law comes to final discussion in the Chamber today. I liked the process of dealing with such a big law. For many of you, that is probably the most normal course of events, but for me this was the first time. Tuesday we have votes. Then we can consider this law closed. It must therefore be strange if my advice on this law to my group is to be changed. That advice is positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u57	We are now going to sit down for the contribution of the Party for Animals. It's cut in half. We are going to listen to Mrs Thieme for 30 minutes and then to Mrs Ouwehand for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u58	It's your day, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. With homesickness I think of Lutz Jacobi, one of the authors of the note Mooi Nederland. On behalf of the Labour Party, she solemnly promised to eradicate pleasure hunting with root and branch. I would like to recall her words here, not only because they are entirely in line with what an overwhelming majority of the parties promised to the electorate in 2012, but above all because we will never forget her and the electoral promise of the Labour Party. I quote: "The PvdA is not in favour of hunting. Unless it is the only solution left to solve problems of nuisance, for example. But even then only under strict conditions. First, all other measures must be taken to combat the nuisance caused by animals and to combat damage. There is already much to be gained by reducing food supply, expanding nature reserves and using alternative methods." According to Lutz Jacobi. Since we started the legislative consultation on the Nature Protection Act last week, much has happened. The successor of Lutz Jacobi, Henk Leenders, conclaved with the VVD to come up with a proposal that, in his opinion, would be even more animal-friendly than Lutz Jacobi's. He suggested that civil society organisations that have sustainable population management as their objective should not be allowed to be part of the fauna management units. They might be able to talk about the hunt. In return, he granted the VVD that the pleasure hunt would remain untouched and that the planned fight against harm by animals by landowners would be removed. Dismissal plans were deleted as well as the obligation to act in accordance with the fauna management plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u59	I hear Mrs Thieme talking a number of times about the VVD and pleasure hunting. In my opinion, the VVD has always talked about damage control, population management and exploitation hunting. Mrs Thieme is perfectly capable of creating a frame by saying that the VVD would have something to do with pleasure hunting. I'm throwing that far from me. I never talk about that. Mrs Thieme has never heard me talk about pleasure hunting. I have never said that we would be in favour of it or anything like that. We really think of something completely different when it comes to pleasure hunting, something far beyond this continent. So let's just talk about harm control, population management and exploitation hunt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u60	It is a fact that there are five species excluded from the regime how we deal with animals that cause harm. It is a fact that nothing is asked for. It is a fact that all space is offered to hunters to kill animals in nature and to take them out of nature as they wish. That has nothing to do with social necessity. That is why it is so bad that the Labour Party is threatening to go along with this by continuing to declare these five species outlawed. I hope, however, that this group will change its position. This amendment places the fauna management unit at a great distance, and thus also the influence of civil society organisations that could be part of these fauna management units. Hunters would be allowed to shoot as many hares, pheasants, rabbits, wood pigeons and wild ducks as they please. They should only report afterwards how many animals have been shot. When the animal is shot, the thirst is muffled by drinking a glass and discussing it afterwards. Henk Leenders believed that the animal would come first in this way. But it didn't turn out to be that simple. Organisations such as the Animal Protection, the Fauna Protection and Natural Monuments strongly distanced themselves from the compromise between the VVD and the PvdA. They were right to do that. We had a hearing yesterday. Civil society organisations cut the amendment to that effect. The consulted lawyers and ecologists did not have a good word for the compromise either. It's a wash nose. I'm going through the amendment. The fauna management units no longer play any role in hunting and combating damage by land users. The discharge plan is deleted, and even the obligation to comply with the fauna management plan. The amendment to the explanatory statement to the amendment, which Leenders and Heerema sent to the Chamber today, does not change that. After all, the added remark that the fauna management units provide for a planned approach is only an indicative plan, as I have been told by the lawyers. That remark has no legal force whatsoever. In fact, this planned approach also has little meaning in practice, because the VVD and the PvdA have removed the obligation for hunters to comply with the fauna management plans. The hunters can still do what they want. Mr Leenders was so proud of the fact that the plans for the management of fauna were made public. Those plans were already made public when they were approved by the province. It's been a long time since we could see it. So that's nothing new. The amendment speaks very proudly about the possibilities for administrative enforcement. However, enforcement is not about firing off, but only about the obligation to provide information. I understand very well that the VVD can live with the extra sentence in the explanatory statement. The PvdA has, to say disrespectfully, once again let itself be called ringelors. It is also unfortunate that no clear requirements are imposed on the planned approach to, for example, utility and necessity, alternatives to discharge, numbers of animals or the limitation of the working area. In short, compared to the legislative proposal, the amendment weakens controllability, enforcement and the possibility of legal proceedings. Professor of Natural Law Kees Bastmeijer and Dr Arie Trouwborst, Assistant Professor of Environmental Law at Tilburg University, stated that the amendment is also contrary to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Bern Convention, on the following points. The definition of harm reduction is vague. Debris can take place because the ground user can decide for himself whether there is serious damage and whether he thinks there will be damage next year. The amendment does not provide for consideration to be given first to other animal-friendly harm control products. Nor does the amendment guarantee that the favourable conservation status of the species cannot be jeopardised. It also does not provide for a causal link to be established between loss and damage prevention. The passage in the bill and in the amendment that was rejected only in the event of imminent damage in the current or next year is contrary to the Birds Directive. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to my observation, which is supported by the legal scholars we have consulted. The Secretary of State should not want to bear any responsibility for this amendment, precisely because she has informed the Chamber of no point or necessity in finding hunting unacceptable. There are plenty of reasons for submitting the amendment to the Council of State. The amendment touches at the heart of the bill and is a far-reaching violation of the lives and well-being of millions of living beings. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[(Parliament agreed to the request for urgent procedure) 53 according to legal scholars is contrary to the Biodiversity Convention and the Berne Convention;]] [[Whereas this amendment affects the core of the Nature Protection Act (33348) on rules for hunting, damage control and population;]] [[Invites the Government to consult the Council of State on the amendment to item No. 53]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u61	Of course, it would be much better if Mr Leenders withdrew his support for the amendment. It is a compromise which is contrary to the PvdA's electoral promise and also to the aims of the animal and nature conservationists. It is therefore an untenable proposal. The agreement with the VVD sounded like a banging déjà vu. At the time of the treatment of the Flora and fauna Act in 1996, members of the PvdA, D66 and CDA groups claimed that commercial hunting and pleasure hunting were no longer appropriate. What a twist the CDA has made, by the way, but this aside. The PvdA spokesperson Willie Swilderens-Rozendaal said it's illogical to have a wild list in a law based on the "no, unless" principle. She said, "There is no hunting unless there is a particular reason for it." It stressed the importance of uniform protection, where infringements can only be justified in the event of damage or protection. This was exactly how her colleague Lutz Jacobi repeated it in 2013. However, in the NRC of 21 October 1999, the PvdA chamber member Swilderens claimed that she had finally succumbed to the pleasure hunt for five species, in order to obtain the VVD in other areas. A banging déjà-vu. The pleasure hunt is a completely free matter. There is no mention of pleasure hunting in the coalition agreement. The PvdA can therefore feel completely free and be supported by a large majority in both the Second and the First Chambers. A change in the substitute policy is urgently needed to do justice to the intrinsic value of nature and the animals in the wild. A change is urgently needed to prevent damage by means of means that work and are animal-friendly. For this we need to break the tradition of letting hunters determine what the policy looks like and then let them implement it. Not focusing on numbers of animals, but on nature value and damage prevention. That is why I have tabled an amendment which seeks to give the right to implement the fauna policy not exclusively to the fauna management units, but also to other organisations, if they are sufficiently qualified to do so. The provinces will thus be given the space to complete the fauna policy as they see fit. I also propose that the wildlife management units should not be given legal status. There is no need to give hunting associations and hunting clubs legal status. The designation of areas and nature areas where, for example, no boar should be allowed to enter does not fit into a modern fauna policy either. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a zero level of wild boar is not real and not sustainable;]] [[calls on the government to release the zero-stock areas for wild boar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u62	Then I come to our amendments to put an end to unnecessary disturbance of nature. I said in my first term that we would like to give the PvdA Group the opportunity to recapitulate itself in sub-areas through amendments to the Nature Protection Act, for which a large majority can be found. Better halfway than wandering in the eternal hunting grounds of the VVD. The Labour Party said in my own initiative paper that it wants to make hunting more animal-friendly. That is why I have tabled an amendment requiring only shotguns and not shotguns. We must not ignore the fact that a large number of animals are "sickly shot" in hunting terms. The five species are shot with hail. A hail pattern contains several hundred metal parts that are fired on animals in full motion. Animals get shot and run in a panic. A wounded animal dies a painful death by perforated intestines, a broken mandible or torn legs. I quote from the hunter's manual entitled Kleinwild, by Waidman, aka Gerrit Bakker. "In many cases, the rear runners are shot down from the hare. This can be seen very clearly. The animal will hit the ground at the moment the shot hits target, but will immediately run away in a crooked position. Often, in such a case, the broken piece of carpet swings next to the animal. For example, I spent two hours searching for such a drunken hare. I didn't find it. A week later we saw in the same meadow, almost in the same place, a hare. The same; the animal could hardly walk. One of the back runners was three times as thick as normal from the hip to the socks. A forerunner was broken and set up strong. The punk drowned from the hail wounds on the back and at the joints. We delivered the animal from its earthly worries. At such a time, you are inclined to stop hunting." Thus the hunter Gerrit Bakker. In the Dutch hunting field, three rounds per killed animal are fired at average. These are at least 600 pellets, some of which may be deadly and some of which are not. Sometimes animals are also affected in the immediate vicinity. In preparation for the ban on leaded ammunition research was carried out by the scientists of the IVN on the use of hail patterns. They found that shooting a wild duck uses an average of three and a half hail patterns. For shooting a pheasant, that's two and a half, for shooting a wood pigeon four, for shooting a hare two and for shooting a rabbit three. These figures can be found in the report Emission of seven heavy metals to agricultural land from the 2003 CBS. I had this report distributed to the MPs last week. It is important to report that this study was carried out at the time of the use of lead hail. Lead hail is relatively deadlier and more effective than bismuth and zinc, which is now being used. Hunters tell me that the number of patterns used per animal killed today would have increased even more and thus also the risk of sickly shot animals, animals that are not killed and die in nature. How does the Secretary of State view these figures in the context of statutory care obligations and the recognition of the intrinsic value of the animal? The recent TNO report from 2014 entitled Emission estimates, diffuse sources and emissions registration also confirms this picture once again. I have also presented this report to colleagues. The Netherlands Organisation Hunting and Ground Management, on its website, informs us that the Dutch hunter averages 200 patterns per year. Multiply that hunter estimate by 28,000 hunters active in the Netherlands, and then you get to 5.6 million hail patterns on a number of 2 million killed animals. Former director Sjaak Kuijers of the Hunters Association states that he considers three patterns per killed animal to be a very conservative estimate. He says that it regularly occurs that experienced hunters use five hail patterns per animal: once wrong, three times shot and then the deadly, redeeming shot. It is therefore logical and inescapable that so many of the animals that have been killed in nature are now mutilated and live with hail patterns in their bodies or die a miserable death. Since 1978, every Dutch hunter must have a hunting diploma. Shooting skills are an essential part of this. However, the risks of animals being shot sick are high. Such large margin of error would be unacceptable in any other sector. In this case, we are literally talking about a matter of life and death. The Secretary of State and some spokesmen rely on the predatory principles of the hunter, as I have heard a number of times. However, studying the hunters shows that these rules and traditions are mainly there to keep the sport around the hunt as beautiful as possible. Many ecologists argue for hares to be in the seat "Pelot" meaning standing still or standing still or the pheasants walking instead of flying. This increases the chance of getting caught and restricts the shooting. However, this runs counter to the principles of pasture, the hunters say. In case of severe rabbit damage one often uses the flobert gun, a light bullet gun, instead of a hail gun. This is done to shoot the rabbits in the seat, standing still or standing still. During the hunt, however, this way of acting is unacceptable, according to the editors of the association magazine De Nederlandse Jager. It is therefore only logical to use the bullet gun in the hunt as well. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I hope that there will be broad support from those parties who have a high priority for animal friendliness. I expect at least the support of the Labour Party and the Secretary of State, who have explicitly said that hunting must become more animal-friendly on all points. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's opinion. I also hope that my amendment will be supported in order to prohibit in all cases hunting and firing from vessels and vehicles. It is also obvious to raise the age limit for a hunting certificate to 21 years. For why should young people have been allowed to live and die animals from 18 years of age, animals whose intrinsic value the government claims to recognise? In the United States, where the use of firearms is very tolerant, the State of New York has an age limit of 21 years for the use of firearms. The hunt disturbs nature to an important extent. The hunt impoverishs nature by removing the animals, disrupts the natural population dynamics and disrupts the hunted species and other species. The disturbance of nature, in particular disturbance of the other non-sustainable species, is reflected in research over and over again, including from research carried out by Alterra in 2004 and 2010. The presence of hunters, their dogs and their shots cause disruption of many species present. For example, deer become much more vigilant, at the expense of their foraging time. Fleeing animals send a strong alarm signal to all other animals in the field during hunting. The animals flee and sometimes return after days. There is also intensive hunting of foxes. This happens with lights in the night. This has great consequences for the night's sleep in nature and animal welfare. Because, you can imagine, it's almost impossible to find drunken animals in the night. That is why I have tabled an amendment to prohibit night-time hunting with light amplifiers and the like. A thorn in the eye of many forest rangers, I have been told, are the so-called host hunters in the field. These are hunters, mostly from abroad or from another province, who have no involvement whatsoever in the terrain and for that reason neither in the fauna policy. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to restrict hunting tourism and to ban hunting and shooting for those who do not live in the immediate vicinity of the hunting field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u63	You can't be different than before if you think it's important that the hunt, if it already takes place, takes place in the interest of nature. We don't need guest hunters who don't know about horns or blows. A discharge can only be allowed if it can be measured on objective grounds that it is in the interest of damage control or population management. It is important to realise that no species is harmful at all times and everywhere. That is why we have tabled an amendment to delete the exemption list from the legislative proposal and an amendment to clarify the concept of damage. There is no reason for hunters to lure animals that cause damage or nuisance. However, this happens, including live decoy ducks and decoy pigeons. They are also used in the pleasure hunt. The law allows live ducks and decoys to be used provided they are not mutilated or blinded. It's really there! It is, of course, very difficult to check whether the decoys are domesticated animals or whether they have been removed from the wild. It is also complicated to monitor the way decoys are handled, how they are kept and cared for. The decoy birds are tied up or placed in a cage for the benefit of the gunshot. This affects animal welfare. These resources are therefore no longer of this time. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. It will surprise the Chamber, but I would like to table another motion along with Mr Heerema of the VVD. That motion is about the hunting trophies. The Secretary of State said she's investigating this. Hunting trophies often come under the guise of personal possession in the Netherlands and Europe and are often abused for wildlife crime by terrorist organisations that generate a lot of money with ivory sales. The Secretary of State has discouraged the amendment on this point, but I also have a motion, also in support of her plans. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas poaching and international illicit trade in animal products, such as ivory and tiger skins, is a source of revenue for terrorist organisations and international criminal networks;]] [[noting that the current exemptions for game trophies are difficult to control for abuse by the international illicit trade of animal products;]] [[calls on the Government to present a plan of action this year to address the import of hunting trophies, such as ivory and tiger skins, at national or European level and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u64	I'm rounding up. Citizens' confidence in politics has fallen to a low point. The government coalition has only a virtual majority of 35 seats in this house. The majority of the Dutch population rejects the pleasure hunt. The government parties have also promised their abolition to the electorate. It would therefore be embarrassing if the same government parties were to extend the yacht now by allowing a total uncontrolled discharge under the pretext of combating damage. The Secretary of State called it irresponsible or unnecessary animal shooting unacceptable. It is unacceptable that its legislative proposal and the coalition partners' amendment should allow this to happen. There will have to be an end to the yacht, just as I believe that there should be an end to the bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u65	Mr. Chairman. As we heard during the conclusion of our colleague Thieme, we like to work with the VVD. Together with that party, we have filed a motion against wildlife crime. I'll make a motion myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that despite the commitment to halt biodiversity loss in 2010, nature in our country is still declining;]] [[noting that the Nature Protection Act constitutes a deterioration of the protection of vulnerable nature in the Netherlands compared to the laws currently in force;]] [[calls on the government to withdraw the bill on nature conservation (33348),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u66	I see Mr. Heerema's looking a little strange. He may not share the considerations. We have received the message that the VVD has threatened to vote against the Nature Protection Act if the Labour Party were to manage to hold on to what it has felt for years, for which it has been fighting for years and what it has written in the initiative paper Beautiful Netherlands, namely that there will be an end to the yacht, or to make it more understandable to the VVD: the yacht that is not regulated in the existing systems of damage control and population management. The Labour Party could just do that. That is not prohibited in the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement merely states that the Nature Act, submitted by former Secretary of State Bleker, would be amended. If the VVD decides for that reason to interfere with the coalition party that wants to follow its own ideals in a free matter, if it decides to break that point, then I wonder what is so annoying about that for the Secretary of State. I would say that if one of the coalition parties does not want to support a deterioration of the laws of nature that are now in force, then we are done. Then all green parties are happy with the preservation of the Flora and Fauna Act, the Nature Protection Act and the Forest Act? End of exercise for the Bleker exercise. I do not quite understand why the Labour Party has turned in its ideals. The VVD Group threatened to vote against this bill for reasons other than the Animal Party, but the Secretary of State has heard it right: this bill cannot count on my group's support and that is not just a matter of reason. I have already mentioned those three laws that are now in force, which the bulldozer has passed under the previous government. The compromise in the coalition agreement was that the Labour Party would support the VVD's desire to continue to do so. This Secretary of State has been allowed to remove the sharpest edges. That does not mean that its legislative proposal, or indeed the letter of amendment we are discussing today, is an improvement for nature. The only positive thing I've been able to find in it is that it's noticed that nature has intrinsic value within itself. That's beautiful and true. That's what the Party for Animals always says. Furthermore, it does not get much hands and feet in this bill, so that does not lead to any concrete improvement. What's left is we're gonna scrap the protection we had. And that in a context that doesn't look good for nature either: the hard cut on nature that went hand in hand with Bleker's plan. 70% of the natural budget would go off. This has now been reduced to 50%, but this is still a 50% cut compared to 2010. Was that justified, for example, that the main ecological structure was finished? No, not at all, far from it, while a contiguous network of nature reserves makes nature resilient again. Robust, we call it. Nature that can take another punch. Another part of the context of the legislative proposal we are discussing today is decentralisation to provinces. These are international agreements that we have not shown to be successful. We have not succeeded in stopping the decline in biodiversity. Is it wise, then, to shred the important task we have so far failed structurally over twelve provinces? I don't think so. A smaller nature is also part of that context. The network of contiguous nature areas that we would realize with the ehs is simply being reduced. Like it's possible with a nature that doesn't look good. Another context is the further intensification of agriculture; overfertilisation, monocultures, depletion of soil and literally spraying life in rural areas with heavy toxins. Nature can't stand that. The cabinet would have to strike a line in order to put a stop to it. None of that's gonna happen. In that context, in which nature is put under heavy pressure, even further than has already been done, and heavily under pressure, the protection of your nature is further undermined, which is never a good idea. The objection of the Party for Animals is that the Secretary of State has turned against the development in society, as I said in the legislative consultation, the first term. We have become more and more aware that it is valuable to protect nature to protect ourselves; not only the species we can harvest, which we find useful, which produce something for us, but also the ecosystems we have insufficient control over to be able to millimeter and say: this is important and not. It took years. In 1818 there was the first Useful Animal Law. We've been around 200 years. During that period, the realization has grown that you cannot have it from the protection of individual species. That's a much too complicated math puzzle. Nature doesn't get any better with that. The Secretary of State is now putting a line on this development and I am disappointed by her. I find it disappointing that a Secretary of State of Labour Party does not stand for nature when she knows what is needed. The joke is ""but that depends on your sense of humor" that it didn't have to do at all. The Secretary of State could have opposed the VVD as Doc Daneeka from Catch-22. It's a catch 22. The VVD constantly says: the economy is important; away with nature. The Secretary of State could have said: yes, the economy is important; so we are going to protect nature better. There is the sting, but there is also the chance for the secretary of state to convince parties who are not convinced of the intrinsic value of nature with a good story. Those parties are on the right side of the spectrum. They just want to think about the returns. They constantly stress that nature rules hinder certain economic developments and continue to complain about this to the interrupting microphone. With this bill, this won't change. In fact, Professor of Nature Conservation Law Kees Bastmeijer and others have strongly pointed out to the Chamber, and I assume also the Secretary of State, that a judge, if nature conservation is further undermined, will stop more and more stringent plans that pose a further threat to nature. If you do less for nature, nature will become more and more vulnerable and a judge will therefore also stop stricter plans. We can regulate our own Dutch laws as the VVD would like, but there are and remain international agreements that we have to comply with. It may take a little longer before we get a tap, but people will go to the European Court. This government and the previous governments have already been able to hang on the wall incredibly many destructive agreements of judges. They've been saying over and over that you can't keep hacking into nature. Whatever the compromise, whatever the way the Secretary of State has found, it's not good for nature. Moreover, the urge to extend the nature conservation rules even further will not provide a solution for the stalling of projects. The Secretary of State knows that, and I am really sorry that she did not use it. Catch-22 is a super funny book, but you have to choose which part you play. The Secretary of State plays the role of Yossarian, while she could have been that funny Doc Daneeka. Then we could all have had a lot of fun about the swinging of the VVD; at least I could have. The bill breathes the spirit that nature must be protected, but that the economy must be at the forefront of it. That is the economy of the short term, of the tunnel vision. In that tunnel, we try to keep species alive. There is talk of micromanagement, with arguments fired by the VVD about whether that one white snuitlibel can stop a project. Disappear from that, wax and is today the Party's plea for the Animals. Nature needs space and ecosystems to breathe. Only then can we say goodbye to that micromanagement, in which we try to protect nature on the square millimetre. That keeps us busy all the time, but doesn't help nature much. I have already referred to the international treaties to which the Secretary of State must comply. It is true, she has included a number of things in the letter of amendment, but she has done so very little. She's gonna be at the absolute minimum. In conventions such as the Bern Convention and the Bonn Convention, annexes have been agreed which contain animals that are so threatened that they need acute protection. I think you're protecting it. However, these conventions also bind the treaty partners to preventing more animals from being so threatened as to get them on those lists, but this Secretary of State does not do so. It is selective shopping in international obligations. I predict she won't get there with this. We object to the release of the broad duty of care for plants and animals in our country in favour of the protection of lists. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. You're gonna be okay, because I've only spoken to you for 10 minutes. The Animal Party will vote against the bill. I suggest the PvdA sleep on it for another night. We'll be voting on this bill next Tuesday or Wednesday. If we embrace Mrs Thieme's own initiative paper, the wild list will be deleted, which will put an end to the hunt other than for population management or the fight against damage. That is what the PvdA has always wanted and there is a majority in the Chamber for that. We shall vote on that first. Then the VVD is angry. It then votes against this bill, along with all the Green parties who criticize the bill a lot. Then we keep the laws we have and the yacht will be abolished. We can't get it any better, can we? I'd say let's do it this way next week. In the event of a different situation, I have tabled a number of amendments. The members have all been able to see them. I would also like to table a number of motions. However, this would be the best outcome ever. Those who break pay, so if the VVD fails to comply with the coalition agreement, I hope that this prediction will come true and that that group will decimate at the next elections. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nature is not only valuable in itself, but also the basis of our existence;]] [[noting that 50% of the natural budget has still been reduced compared to 2010;]] [[noting that the current limited nature budget is not sufficient to protect our natural capital well in the Netherlands and to pass it on to future generations;]] [[calls on the government to look for sufficient additional resources to reverse the cuts in the nature budget in recent years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with the Nature Conservation Act (33348) a large number of fish species and molluscs lose their protection, which they did have under the Flora and fauna Act;]] [[noting that these species are also not protected under the Fisheries Act;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to provide legal protection for these species,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-142]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u67	Finally, I have tabled a motion for a resolution because I have not managed to improve the protection of trees in an amendment. There are great concerns about the bald blow that is currently taking place. Many valuable trees are being cut down in our country. So I am now tabling a motion, but in fact I think that the Secretary of State should have regulated by law that the cutting of trees is really not easy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that provinces are going to cut down thousands of trees along N-roads;]] [[noting that cutting these trees will not contribute to the safety of the roads because bare roadsides can provoke higher speeds and dangerous driving behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent the intended roofing of trees along provincial roads,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u68	Mr. Chairman. 50 minutes speaking time for the Party of Animals: in the SGP tradition you would call that a sermon. Given the content, you'd call it a penance sermon. In the SGP tradition you would then sing a psalmvers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u69	Don't hold back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u70	I was thinking of Psalm 19, verse 1: the large sky round...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u71	Then you'll have to sing it, too. Those are the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u72	The wide round of heaven tells with joyful mouths of God's glory and glory. That is a beautiful psalm, which also shows the positive. This should be visible according to the SGP tradition. Mr Heerema also spoke very nicely about it from the liberal tradition. We have not only looked at what can be done better for this bill, but I also have a number of points for improvement, as well as what is good. I think taking good care of God's creation is beautiful. It is good that there is a legislative proposal that takes steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u73	Mrs Ouwehand wants to sing the second voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u74	The Party for Animals has a request for a psalm: The Hanging Deer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u75	"The Hailing Deer of Hunt escaped" and "Thus my soul yells to You." The beauty of that psalm is that it fits the rules of pasture. Read the explanation of the psalm: the deer must have a fair chance to escape the hunt. So the psalm doesn't forbid hunting, but the psalm forbids hunting unfairly. So it's fine if the Party for Animals sings that psalm along from now on. I would like to congratulate you and start with the Legislative Bureau and the civil servants. It is inconceivable what they have received in recent weeks from amendments, and now from motions. They are very justified and I have been involved in this myself. So this is not a reproach to anyone, but simply a finding. Thank you for that. Thanks to the Secretary of State, too. This is a colossus of a law. The field is divided and politics is divided. The Secretary of State has to make sure there's a law after all. It will benefit all of us if we can move forward. Thank you for that. I am concentrating on a number of points, also because of the President's call for time to be spent as efficiently as possible. I'll start with the target. The SGP is not satisfied with the State Secretary's replies. The Council of State is crystal clear: you only include a provision in the law if you want to settle something concrete, and otherwise you don't. As far as I'm concerned, the Secretary of State is pulling up a smokescreen. She suggests that the target definition has nothing to do with it, but at the same time the explanatory memorandum on the bill states that administrative bodies should take account of the target definition. I'd like home or calf from the Secretary of State. Is the explanation of the bill or what the Secretary of State said in the legislative consultation? There she said: it does not really mean anything; we say this for political reasons. The Secretary of State is shielding with the Environment Act. However, the embedding here is very different. The target definition has a clear legal added value in the Environment Act; that is where it is. The Environment Act gives administrative bodies tools with much more room for manoeuvre. Therefore, the target provision also applies in the Environmental Act "as long as no specific rules have been adopted'. The provision there is intended not to completely release administrative bodies in the free space they have. The Law of Nature does not know this free space. A target definition therefore has no added value. The wording "as specified by or under this law" only creates more fog. If the Secretary of State wants to follow the Environment Act, why doesn't she choose the exact same wording? That is why I have tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution. 106, in which the wording of the Environment Act is included one-on-one in this Natural Law. I can't imagine that the government would advise against that, even though it's putting this into another law itself. The laws must be consistent with each other. I come to the indication of special national nature reserves. For sites included in the Natura 2000 status portal, a direct European obligation applies. That is at least the reasoning used by the Secretary of State to discourage my amendment. I agree with that, because in such a case, you cannot demand agreement with provinces. We do not do that in this amendment either. We're focusing on a different situation. That direct obligation under international conventions is not there for sites that may be designated under general Natura 2000 targets in addition to active species protection. Given the responsibility of provinces for the Dutch Nature Network, I would therefore like to see provincial agreement when designating these areas. That is why I ask the Secretary of State for an opinion on the amendment to item No. 90 to leave the Chamber. I have the amendment to item No. 93 to ensure that the government cannot simply place responsibility for the protection of special national nature reserves on the plate of provinces. The Secretary of State has already stated in writing that she will leave the opinion to the Chamber. Thank you for that. I come to the natural characteristics. I disagree with the Secretary of State on the review of projects in Natura 2000 sites. Projects must not affect the natural characteristics of an area. However, the big question is which species and habitats are included in these natural characteristics. According to the State Secretary, these are all habitats and species that are not negligible in an area and for which the Netherlands has therefore set conservation targets. So these are not just the species and habitats that lead to the selection of the area. As far as I am concerned, this goes beyond European judgments. They refer to the habitats and species that gave rise to the inclusion of an area on the Community list. The European Court begins with the question: why is this particular area appropriate? I'm trying to clear this up, but I think he's in the next one. Three categories of habitats and species can be found in an area. Firstly, habitats and species that have led directly to the selection of the site as a Natura 2000 site. Of that it is clear, that is a natural characteristic. The second category is the habitats and species needed to obtain sufficient rural coverage and thus an indirect incentive to place the site on the Natura 2000 list. I am talking about the third category: habitats and species that were not grounds for giving the site a Natura 2000 status. Then it's especially about snippers nature. For example, I mentioned the Oosterschelde area. The Secretary of State and I also agreed that this should not be the case. In my view, the Secretary of State is afraid that we are going to blow the place up by wiping out categories two and three: not only the nature of the snippets but also the indirect cause for the designation of the Natura 2000 site. However, that is a misconception. We are only concerned with the nature of the snippets, the third category. I believe that we, as legislators, should clarify and act accordingly. That is why my amendment to item No. 52. I have not yet found any light between the amendment and European case law, so I ask the Secretary of State to reconsider that. In addition, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that protected species and habitats are present in Natura 2000 sites, which led directly or indirectly to the selection of the site concerned as Natura 2000 sites, and that protected species and habitats are absent;]] [[Considering that case law shows that when assessing applications for authorisation, the impact on protected habitats and species that directly or indirectly led to the selection of the site concerned as Natura 2000 sites is decisive;]] [[noting, however, that in Dutch practice hardly any distinction is made between these categories of habitats and species;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Dutch practice is in line with the above case law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u76	I have two brief points to make. The first point concerns hunting. We would have liked to have seen another proposal that would give more room for hunting. We still see a number of points that we think can be better used and given more space. To be honest, I don't know where the problem is right now. It is a marvel of a sustainable story if you do the exploitation hunt in a good way. Then you close circles, then those animals have a beautiful life, much better than in a small loft. The sustainable use of hunting should therefore be given more scope, but there is now, given the political reality, a good compromise. We will certainly support the amendment on this subject. Finally, much remains to be done. It is very important that the follow-up process avoids ambiguity, policy accumulation and unfulfillable rules. This requires good involvement of citizens, businesses and civil society organisations. Fortunately, the Secretary of State indicated in the first term that she would follow the recommendations of the SIRA Consulting report. The VVD already asked about that. I thank her for that and wish her and the provinces good luck and a healthy dose of farmers' understanding in the implementation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u77	Mr. Chairman. This Nature Protection Act is the successor to Rutte I's demolition law, written by the then Secretary of State Bleker. The Members who were already in the Chamber at the time know how much I opposed a number of elements of that law. We have even written a beautiful initiative paper, together with the Labour Party and GroenLinks, entitled Mooi Nederland. We are pleased that there is now a legislative proposal that does justice to a number of points that D66 considers important, namely to protect the beautiful nature of our country. It is a law in which for the first time the intrinsic value of nature is anchored. That is an important point for my group, because Nature is not only there for human beings or the economy. Nature deserves protection because of itself and must be cherished. For D66, this doesn't mean that you always have to protect nature from people or from the economy. We also see a lot of opportunities. We see opportunities in which nature is created, managed and polite with people. You can do that with companies sometimes. D66 has therefore tabled amendments that give green entrepreneurship and agricultural nature management a better place in the law. The provinces have the last word in this, of course. That is the choice we have made in decentralisation. It can help provinces if the Empire offers frameworks. I now come to an important point for D66, which was not sufficiently regulated in the legislative proposal as it was: the landscapes. I congratulated the Secretary of State in the legislative consultation, and I just did so again for the way in which she has already brought a whole series of points from the initiative paper Beautiful Netherlands of D66, the Labour Party and GroenLinks back into the law. We are grateful to her for that. When you talk about the experience value of nature, one of the key points of Beautiful Netherlands, you also talk about all these beautiful landscapes, which have a specific experience value. You can think of silence, cultural history or beauty. It doesn't always have to coincide with nature value. That is why D66 has tabled an amendment which allows provinces to protect special provincial landscapes and thus that part of the landscape, regardless of the natural value of. In the legislative consultation, the Secretary of State was sympathetic towards landscapes. However, a number of points have been asked to take a closer look at the impact of the amendment. We would have liked to accept that invitation. There is therefore an amended amendment before us, and I hope that the Secretary of State will take a positive view of this. It is an amendment that allows provinces to choose to protect the core values of beautiful pieces of land. I refer, for example, to Central Delfland, which has already been mentioned a few times. I would stress, however, that there is no obligation for provinces to do so. I believe there is a question from Mr Geurts on this point. No? I'll just keep going. I don't want to provoke anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u78	You want to, and so Mr Geurts is going to ask you something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u79	Now that I'm being provoked, I don't see it as an interruption, but as a desire to speak to the spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u80	There's just a cross behind your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u81	Too bad. I have a question for the D66 Group. In the legislative consultation I indicated that we were sympathetic to this. Does this also mean that existing economic activities are not hindered and simply can be continued?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u82	This amendment is not intended at all to change what is happening now. It is precisely in the provinces, when it is said 'we have something beautiful here that we want to protect as it is and that we want to preserve for the future', that we can agree on how to do it. With the amendment that is now being proposed, we are not saying anything about how to do it. It's really up to the provinces. The discussion will take place in the province. During working visits I met a lot of people who were extremely proud of the part of the Netherlands where they live and who very much wanted to protect some of the core values there. That is what the amendment is about. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum stresses that the provincial landscapes will also have no external effect. You have to define that in such a way that it is also clear that the effects you want to achieve fall within that provincial landscape. Monitoring is the second important point for D66. Nature policy is being decentralised and this requires a lot of trust from the Empire in provinces to take on this task. The Empire remains fully responsible for Brussels at system level. It also requires trust from this Chamber. That is not wrong at all, because we can work with each other in relation to trust. But then it needs to be properly monitored. This is important not only for the Empire and the House of Representatives, but also for the provinces, because they can learn from good monitoring of each other's best practices: why is grazing bird management in one province so much better than in the other, what are the success factors and can they be translated into another province? The monitoring provides a good insight into the way tax money is spent to make nature in the Netherlands as high quality as possible and to keep it as wide as possible. We have tabled an amendment to this effect, which lays down monitoring in the law and clearly ensures that the Chamber is informed about the progress of the Nature Network. I hope the Secretary of State can support this. Previous experiences with the main ecological structure................................................................................................................................................................................ Monitoring should give us an insight into the quality: what are we really achieving in improving the values of nature? Monitoring should also produce workable results. That is why I have prepared another motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the monitoring system should ensure nature that Deputy States can adequately account to the Provincial States for the nature policy pursued;]] [[considers that the monitoring system should also ensure that the Empire can adequately collect and supply the international mandatory nature data and thereby fulfil its system responsibility for nature policy in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in addition to quantity, the monitoring system also pays attention to quality;]] [[calls on the government, external experts such as the General Court and the Planning Office for the Environment to be involved in the development of the monitoring system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Dik-Faber, Grashoff and Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u83	I have to confess to my shame that I have not yet discussed the matter with colleagues with whom I have worked very well in drawing up a number of amendments, and whom I assumed they would like to see their names included in this motion. Just to be safe, I put their names underneath, because they always have the opportunity to want it different. Those are Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Grashoff and Mr Smaling. It's crowded in the last few weeks before recess. In the legislative consultation I have already indicated that the powers of the Empire and the Province are the third point to which D66 attaches great importance. That's the system responsibility of the Empire. Even after decentralisation, the Empire is and will remain responsible for implementing international obligations in the field of nature. To those groups who are perhaps less inclined to look at Brussels as something positive, I note that this is the agreement, whether they like it or not. That's the deal that's in the law. If the Empire does not do so, there can also be major financial consequences, and none of us will benefit from this, not at all if you are more critical of Europe. Then extra tax money would have to go because you don't have your business in order. D66 does not consider it unreasonable that, in the exceptional case where a province really defaults, the Empire has a hook in the law on the basis of which the emergency brake can be pulled. If, at the hands of a province, the Empire defaults, this has major consequences not only for nature, but also for the Empire. That's what we have to try to prevent. That is why, in cooperation with GroenLinks, the SP and the Christian Union, we have prepared an amendment in which, in case of need, the Empire can protect its own interests and those of nature. Once again, we do not want to reverse decentralisation, but we do want to bring this emergency brake into the law, but we do want to exercise great restraint. I hope that the Secretary of State will recognize the usefulness and necessity of this, as will, of course, the coalition parties. I come to the fourth and final issue, but certainly not the least important, the hunt. As many of my colleagues have said, I would like to take this into account. For D66 one thing is leading: there must be an ecological balance in an area. If that is the starting point, the preservation of a species or the legitimate concern for public health, for example, can be a reason to use the hunting in the Netherlands. The starting point must be economic balance. Nature organisations should be able to take part in deciding how the ecological balance is displayed in an area. There has to be a plan, and a plan is just a plan with foundation and monitoring, otherwise it's a shot in the air. I also hear that the VVD Group supports that principle: a plan is a plan with foundation and monitoring, otherwise we do not really know what we are talking about. The question is, of course, how to shape it, with little administrative burden. Trust may have a place in it, but we have to feel that we know what we are doing on the basis of the plan. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how she sees the effect of the amendment on these points. A number of critical comments have been made by colleagues. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she looks at that. I would also like to ask her whether the exception for hunting areas included in the further amendment fits in with the planned approach. Does the Secretary of State and D66 consider that at least an evaluation of the new system incorporated into the law is of great importance? Then after a while we can see if the system works on these points as we now think in confidence with each other. I hear the coalition parties now saying that they have confidence that it will work out. I belong to both coalition parties with great confidence. Then I'd say, let's evaluate it properly. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new Nature Protection Act introduces a new system for hunting in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is not yet clear how this system will work in practice, in terms of ecological balance and administrative burden;]] [[considers that a good evaluation of the new system is therefore of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a comprehensive review of the functioning of the new system and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u84	Let us add that the coalition parties have thus expressed great confidence in the new system. I would like to add my voice to a point introduced by the Party for Animals, namely the fish. The letter of amendment adds only two fish species to the Annex, while 22 other endangered fish species remain under the Fisheries Act regime. On the basis of the criteria set out in the letter of amendment, these 22 other species should also be eligible for protection. It's kind of weird that you say: a certain fish is protected, but once it swims out its habitat, it can just be fished. The river prick is an example of that. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with that? I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas endangered migratory fish are now not sufficiently protected by the Fisheries Act and are not adequately protected by the Nature Protection Act;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether a solution can be found to prevent fishing for endangered species of fish such as river prick, including outside protected habitats,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u85	I'm coming to my conclusion. The Secretary of State said at the beginning of this whole exercise: I am talking about broad support. I also appreciate the way in which she has discussed this with various parties at an early stage. I am looking at the pile of amendments on all of us: hard work has been done. Many amendments have been tabled. This means a lot of work for the Legislative Office and for the officials, but it also means that we have worked together. I am pleased to note that all this work has led to movement in important areas such as landscape, monitoring and the relationship between the Empire and the region. I really hope that we can get closer to each other when it comes to hunting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u86	Mr. Chairman. We had a solid debate on 15 June, last Monday, in the legislative consultation on this bill. I note today that I am not fucked in the suit when I look at Mrs Thieme of the Party for Animals. That feels a little bit lighter to me than last Monday, and that is profit. If Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals wants to seduce me openly in the plenary of the House of Representatives, then my day can no longer be broken. I would like to thank those Members who had an intensive input and suggestions last week. I hope they will see today that these suggestions have had some effect. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and for the supplementary letter she wrote on the amendments that were subsequently tabled. There's a little more work to be done than she did today. In this second term, I would like to discuss the main points in connection with last week's debate and some of the amendments. First, however, I would like to look together at the route that we took from November 2012, when this cabinet arrived and started its work. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that the draft of the Nature Protection Act, which was laid down in the previous period, would be amended. The Secretary of State has started to do so and has made a letter of amendment which translates wishes that have been widely lived in the Chamber. Last week I and others mentioned that the Beautiful Netherlands initiative paper was a reference framework. Several parts that the writers considered important have been incorporated into the new law. That's very positive. I mention the intrinsic values that are important for us, but also for many other parties in this Chamber: the designation of Natura 2000 sites and the Nature Network, decentralisation, the possibility for provinces to designate areas and so on. These things were in that note and we welcome these things. With this, this cabinet and this secretary of state are taking another big step in the spatial domain. Nature is much better off compared to the previous law and compared to the previous cabinet's proposal. But there's more. Steps have been taken in the field of animal welfare. The intensive livestock sector has received the full attention. It also takes the initiative with small steps to make it more sustainable. In the field of plant protection, the direction we want has been used. I could go on, but I won't. This Secretary of State's commitment has been significant over the past two and a half years and the results may be there. The world is getting a little more beautiful in this period. Then I'm gonna go to the Nature Protection Act. That's what today's about. Much from Beautiful Netherlands has been taken over, but not everything. For example, our commitment to landscapes with cultural historical value. However, as far as we are concerned, the treatment of this law will lead to an improvement on this point. There has already been extensive discussion of the D66 amendment, which Mrs van Veldhoven has just referred to. That amendment calls for better legal safeguards for landscapes of cultural and historical value. We will be happy to support that amendment. Then I'll come on the hunt. That was the most perplexing point we talked about last time. Actually, it was mostly about that last week. It was a fierce debate, with sometimes firm statements. Although I've never been so good at ball games, and certainly not in football, I'd like to keep an eye on the ball. We are concerned with the purpose and our goal is to end the hunt purely for pleasure. In the new law, in addition to our amendment, hunters have to draw up a plan for the management of fauna in advance, count them afterwards and account for them. The hunt is therefore restricted and thus becomes a service of nature. Nature organisations get the right to vote and become our eyes and ears. In this way we can ensure that hunting is necessary and in the service of nature. Nature organisations can take part in all forms of hunting. Our goal is to hunt in the service of nature. Mrs Van Veldhoven just called it "ecological balance in nature." I fully agree with that. That is much better achieved by this law and by this additional amendment. This week the image was created that we wanted less rules for hunting. That image is completely absurd. Hunters are being restrained, much more so than in the current law. In this way there is an open and transparent regulation of hunting. We're gonna do something really different in the future. I now turn to the amendments tabled on hunting, firstly to the amendment of the VVD and the Labour Party. We have clarified a few things in relation to the comments made by colleagues and organisations, because there appeared to be some ambiguity. For example, it is better described in the revised version that it is a fauna management plan for all hunting regimes: population management, damage control and hunting. Action must therefore be taken on the basis of a plan for the management of fauna. An approved fauna management plan shall be made public. It is an instrument for a planned and efficient approach. We reiterated in the explanatory statement that the exemption for combating damage by land users applies only to the prevention of imminent damage in the current and next year. With this clarification, Natural Monuments, representing 15 nature organisations, which we have been constantly discussing, were able to support the amendment and the law on this part. Nature monuments, like us, are not happy with everything, but the organisations are happy with the new law which is an important improvement on the current law. In this sense, they particularly disagree with the Animal Party which wants to take the risk that the law will not be passed next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u87	I do not know exactly whether Mr Leenders has finished explaining the amendment he tabled together with Mr Heerema. However, that seems to be the case and that is why I am now placing my interruption. In an interruption, Mr Leender asked Mr Smaling of the SP whether he did not agree that this hunting law was an improvement on existing legislation. As I did with Mr Heerema, I would also like to quote Mr Leeners from the explanatory statement on the amendment. "The amendment ensures that, as in the Flora and fauna law itself, the hunter is responsible for maintaining the reasonable wildlife in his hunting field and preventing the damage caused by wildlife present in his hunting field." Does Mr Leender agree with me that with this explanation there is no de facto difference between what is meant here and what is now stated in the Flora and fauna law? There is therefore no improvement in the present case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u88	I do not agree with Mr Grashoff. The amended amendment stresses that the fauna management plan is the planned and targeted instrument for all three hunting regimes. That's what it says, and that's what it has to be. As far as we are concerned, that does not contradict each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u89	My second question is very simple. Is Mr Leenders prepared to delete that from the explanatory statement and replace it with the text he has now spoken? That is a very different text.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u90	Yeah, we're willing to do that. If there is something in the amendment that can cause confusion or if there is something that we did not mean, then we will discuss it. Of course, that can be adjusted if necessary, but I doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u91	It is striking to hear the representative of the VVD say that the Nature Protection Act provides deregulation and that the PvdA Group says that hunting is being restricted. It can't be both true. My question concerns the amendment. It says: "This amendment regulates that hunters only need to provide data that they already provide on a voluntary basis to fauna management units." I have also put the following question to the VVD Group. I understand the intent, but it really isn't there. Where can I read in the articles that there is accountability and transparency at the front of the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u92	That's two questions. I want to answer both of them. It's just what you're assuming. Deregulation concerns the step we have taken to amend the withdrawal plan from the legislative proposal. I talked about the difference between the current law and the new law and not the difference between the bill and the new law. There's a difference. The second question concerns the way in which you can have clarity in advance. That has to do with the data you use. In the discharge plan contained in the bill, the requirement is to carry out pre-counts. That's what we're deleting. Mrs Dik herself said last week that there is an awful lot of data available. There are more data available than we knew at the time. I am grateful to Mrs Dik for bringing this forward. We then went after it. On the basis of the data currently available and available without too much effort, this can indeed be included in the fauna management plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u93	Indeed, that data is simply available. Why don't you write that down in the amendment? 'Cause then we'll be there. Please include in one of the articles that the global, indicative censuses get a place in the fauna management plan. Then you can actually talk about planned discharge. That word 'planning' really has to be in the text of the amendment and not just in the explanatory statement. I'd be very happy to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u94	It's just the way you look at the concept of "planning." If you take that seriously, you know you're using all the data you need to make a plan. So it seems unnecessary to me to do so. This is in the terms 'planning' and 'targeted'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u95	I am not going to repeat the discussion about the PvdA's initial wish to delete the pleasure hunt. The amendment before us is clearly not what the PvdA has always wanted. Mr Leenders spoke about the threat that the law would not be passed. What's the big deal? If we can simplify and make the Forest Law better and greener with the Flora and Fauna Act, with good protection for plant and animal species, the PvdA is in favour of this. The VVD says not to vote in favour of the amendment if the PvdA holds its own course and wants to end the pleasure hunt. What's against saying to the VVD: well, then you do it nicely, we care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u96	I really don't understand this question from the Party for Animals. Last week, in the legislative consultation, I discussed in detail what we like about this law in relation to the existing law. We have to note that we are not getting what we both want on one point, but I find it incomprehensible that you would like to call off the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u97	I'm not asking for nothing. When that law came to the Chamber, the PvdA together with the PvdD was fiercely critical. It was a law that broke down nature. The letter of amendment has restored some of that, but that does not mean that it is back to the protection regime of the three laws we had. Nor does it mean that those three laws should remain as they are, but given this situation there was nothing against saying to the VVD: then you vote against something we agreed on in the coalition agreement, you have to know that. Of course it would have been annoying for the Secretary of State, but the black man could have been handed out to the natural barbarians of the VVD and the PvdA could have found a majority in the green camp of the Chamber. Then we really would have protected nature and then the PvdA could have held on to its ideals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u98	I can repeat what I said. I believe that the current law is a significant improvement on the existing law. I argued that extensively on 15 June 2015. I think we should do it with that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u99	I'm gonna go back to the same point. I wonder how that works. The issue is highlighted in the PvdA's election programme. You can bring it in by a large majority, here and across the street, and then you won't. I think that a large part of the PvdA's supporters would have liked us to carry the pleasure hunt for the grave today, words that Mr Leenders himself used. Why is this choice so out of place, when another choice for the PvdA would have been much more favourable and would have been for picking up? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u100	I understand Mr Smaling's question. We need to separate purpose and means. For the PvdA it is very important that hunting is at the service of nature and that animal welfare is respected. Mrs Van Veldhoven calls that 'ecological balance'. That's the purpose of it. You're talking about a cure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u101	There's an article from Trouw on my table. It says "hunting kills sustainable nature management." There are quite different views about the role of hunting in nature management. I can't stop thinking it's a difficult story. I wonder how Mr Leenders can face a typical wild duck and wood pigeon while he has left the opportunity to settle something that his own party also wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u102	I have just asked Mr Smaling what he thinks of the future law including the amendment in relation to the current law. He didn't really go into that. What we have proposed is a major improvement. I just talked about purpose and means. We have the idea that the goal we have, a balanced nature, ecological balance and respect for animal welfare, with what we have now proposed, is being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u103	Mr Leenders continued his speech. We really have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u104	I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's sub-amendment to item No. 78. That will make the amendment on item No. 53 adjusted. The Christian Union adds that the management of the fauna management unit can also invite other representatives, such as scientists. My group believes that this is a very good addition. We will be happy to support that. The same applies to Mr Geurts' amendment to item No. 94. I believe that the amendment has now received a different number, but it has passed so much that I do not have that all in a row. That amendment lays down that the fauna management plan contains adequate measures to prevent and control damage caused by wild animals. This addition underlines, as far as we are concerned, the purpose of the fauna management plan, namely that it is a planned instrument. We will therefore also support that amendment. I come to a few points from the first term of the Secretary of State, the system responsibility of the Empire and the responsibility of the provinces. We had questions about that. The most important question was what possibilities exist to address and correct provinces. This can be done on the basis of the inter-administrative supervision laid down in the Province Act. As far as we are concerned, that is satisfactory. We are also satisfied with the State Secretary's opinion on the amendment of the VVD and the Labour Party on the responsibility of the provinces and the D66 amendment ensuring that provinces take into account the provincial border effects that these measures may have when implementing the measures described. We shall be voting for the D66 amendment in respect of item No. 82 therefore likes to support it. In my first term, I made a comment on the impact of intensive farming on, for example, the state of pasture birds. The Secretary of State admits that it wants to move towards a nature-inclusive agriculture and that this involves agricultural nature management and the renewed common agricultural policy. The provinces are responsible for this, but we will soon also have a debate on the government's food vision. We expect to be able to talk about production methods, the handling of nature and the responsibility of the government. Mr Grashoff, on behalf of GroenLinks, expressed his first-term concern about pasture birds. The Labour Party did the same. In this context, Mr Grashoff has also proposed the possibility of a programmed approach. Although this is a province's responsibility, which belongs to species protection, the Secretary of State expressed a positive view of a possible approach. A motion by GroenLinks on a country-wide proposal for a programmatic approach has therefore been co-signed with great agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying in her first term and also for the explanation she has given in writing. I would like to respond to that from a liberal perspective. Free-minded politics is based on the management, conservation, experience and exploitation of nature and the landscape. I mention very emphatically nature and landscape, which belong together. Along these four lines, I would like to respond to the first term and to the amendments and motions for resolutions. I mentioned management first. As far as we are concerned, the bill is not so much about protection as about management. It is striking that even today, most speakers talk about "the Law of Nature." I'm not a physicist myself, but I don't think there's any law of nature here. The Netherlands is actually just a large garden that is valuable. We must manage them properly. That is why it is disappointing that the amendment I tabled to change the name of the law from "Law on Nature Protection" to "Law on Nature Management" has been discouraged. Decentralisation is, in our view, unbalanced. Yes, the Free Party is as close to the citizen as possible to lay responsibility at the level of the administration, but then it has to do what is functionally useful. National nature areas with a national system responsibility of the Empire must also be controlled nationally, just as provincial nature areas are controlled provincially and as the municipality does where the municipality bears the responsibility. That is why I am tabling a motion to make the Empire responsible for the Natura 2000 sites. It is also strange to measure it with two different sizes, as in the D66 amendment, which may give the Empire responsibility through a back door. That seems to me only bad towards the provinces. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nature policy is largely decentralised;]] [[Whereas administrative pressures should be avoided;]] [[Whereas the aim of government is to ensure that nature policy is unambiguous and transparent and that fragmentation of policies does not contribute to this;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from decentralisation of nature policy to provinces for the Natura 2000 sites established on a national basis, with the government itself directing the implementation of the nature vision in conjunction with municipalities and provinces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u106	It's a missed opportunity not to include the landscapes in the Nature Protection Act. It is also a responsibility to develop this. The D66 amendment to point No. 121 I will therefore be happy to support. However, this also means that you should actually do something about it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that landscape-distorting objects such as wind turbines and megasthals affect the perception of nature and landscape;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself not to let large-scale landscape-distorting objects, even if they threaten to be placed across the land border, undermine the perception of nature and landscape;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u107	The last addition I made is because we are seeing developments at the border of our country, for example in Germany in Belgium, where things are being put down where unfortunately our Dutch citizens have not yet been able to take action. The second element concerns the preservation of our nature. In the first term, I indicated that the intrinsic value determination is a purpose determination and is a legally difficult element. That was also stated by the Council of State. But if I answer correctly, the goal is not so much legal, but much more that nature, green is more than "what good is it for me." That is intrinsically important in itself. This means not only that it is important for now, but also for future generations. The arguments convince me to leave the provision in it. The role of municipalities in the new law is considerable. They're gonna get the nature test and they're gonna have to monitor. They should also use a route planner, an impact indicator and a measure indicator. That is very sensible in itself, but it is thought very easily that the municipalities will do so. I don't think that's wise. If, as a fellow government, you choose to engage in co-government, I think that you must make very specific compensation. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the role of the municipalities under the Nature Conservation Act is increased by the fact that the nature test becomes a mandatory part of the environmental permit;]] [[Whereas carrying out a completeness check is an important matter;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate the municipalities for the additional costs of preparing and carrying out this new task through the Municipal Fund and to consult the VNG on the level of this compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u108	I'll be on the third part. That is, from a liberal perspective, about nature and its experience. In addition to the intrinsic value of nature, it is ultimately important that we also benefit from it. We must be able to experience nature, because if you experience nature, you can also appreciate it. One of the best ways to experience nature is by hiking and cycling. We've built a lot of ecoducts. They are not all accessible to hikers, let alone cyclists. The Natuurbrug Zanderij over the A27 is a good example of how it can be done. Research conducted by Alterra has shown that there is absolutely no damage. I am therefore happy to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the national nature network is inter alia linked by ecoducts;]] [[Whereas these ecoducts have been paid by the taxpayer;]] [[Whereas many ecoducts are not accessible for recreational co-use by cyclists and hikers;]] [[Whereas a good cycling and walking network contributes to the promotion of healthy cycling and walking;]] [[Whereas the study of Alterra has shown no adverse effects on fauna and flora in recreational co-use of ecoducts;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to open ecoducts to recreational co-use according to the "yes, unless" principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u109	Because we are dealing with walking and experiencing our nature, our landscape, it is also important that we keep that really open. That's not just about the ecoducts. Also in other interventions we do in nature, we have to take better account of the experience and opportunities for walking and cycling. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas landscapes are often cross-sectioned and hiking trails are blocked, for example by the construction of a bypass or by a railway crossing;]] [[Whereas for an optimal experience of nature and the landscape, this deserves a place in the Nature Protection Act;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the national network of hiking trails is maintained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u110	I come to the last part of the four liberal points in order to take a good look at nature policy: making use of it. When we talk about making use of it, of course, we are also talking about making good use of our forestry. In the Netherlands we have a lot of production forests. Many people think: a tree is a tree and it is still a forest, so it is nature. This is often not the case, because there is forestry and there are production forests. Forestry has become increasingly important in recent years. The Chamber has explicitly said to the Ministry: State forest management, also take care of your own income. The question to the Secretary of State is: how can we prevent those production forests, which lie in different provinces, from being approached differently by the different provinces? I'll be on the hunt and the wild list. From the point of view of management, you also have to think about using it. The management is paramount, but if you've done management, you can use it by using the game waste for consumption as well. Wild dishes should simply remain on the restaurant map; also with Dutch ingredients. According to the Secretary of State, the proposal does not go against the Benelux agreement on hunting and bird protection, because the Netherlands has the right to decide. Why do you have to select? Why is the Benelux Agreement, which also includes our signature, subject to a different consideration? In the original law there was a much wider wild list. That was good and not for nothing, because the area of activity of the fauna management units exceeds the level of the hunting grounds. An argument for expanding the wild list may be that damage is being done or expected. In the end, a plan will have to be based on this. Rules that lead to additional restrictions are not sensible at all. There's no good reason for that. That is why we have tabled an amendment which must remain as it was originally. I also asked a question about how the fauna management units will be maintained. The answer to that is that we are going to maintain because we have rules. That's not maintenance. Maintaining is that you do something based on what's laid down in rules. I'd like to hear a better answer to the question of how you actually come to enforcement. The last point concerns my amendment to item No. 72, that hunting should also be possible on Sundays and holidays. It is a bit strange to say on Sundays and public holidays that the animals should be left alone. Hunters, farmers and landowners can decide whether or not hunting takes place on that day. It's very strange to do that. The Secretary of State advises against this amendment, arguing that it is as annoying for other people as there would be hunting on Sundays, because then a lot of people recreate. That is a rather curious argument, because on Saturday there is also a lot of recreation and on that day there can be hunting. The Secretary of State has indicated that she wants to discuss with civil society organisations whether it is useful to have rules to hunt on Sundays or not. When that is discussed, we can get a feedback from it. I therefore think it would be wise to withdraw the amendment. Nor is it convenient to submit it and then wait for that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u111	The Klein amendment (Doc. 72) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u112	Instead of that amendment, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the animals to be hunted do not experience or have a sun or a holiday;]] [[Whereas wildlife management is often carried out by volunteers who are able to perform paid work during the working week;]] [[expresses her opinion that hunting should also be possible on Sundays;]] [[Whereas the Government has undertaken to discuss with civil society organisations the usefulness and necessity of banning hunting on Sundays and public holidays when drawing up implementing legislation on the basis of the Nature Protection Act;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the outcome of these discussions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u113	In doing so, I hope to be able to proceed to the order of the day, which is the meal you have announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u114	I am so suspending for dinner, but Mr Geurts has another communication of a domestic nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u115	Mr. Chairman. I would like to withdraw two amendments, namely the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 41 to ensure that owners are heard, and the amendment to item No. 43 on the experimental assessment. Both of the CDA's amendments are hereby withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u116	The Geurts amendments (Doc. 41 and 43) have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u117	I hope you've all had a good meal and perhaps come to some new insights. We are now starting with the government's first term, which is also the last. The Secretary of State has informed me that she has seven cubes. She's gonna name it later. At the end of each block may be interrupted. So we can structure it a little bit. I would point out once again that you have already had a ten-hour legislative consultation, which is not a record, but it has taken a long time. So I would like to limit the number of interruptions per person to two. That sounds good to me. The Secretary of State is supposed to be present at a legislative consultation from 7.30 p.m., but she's going to skip school a little bit. We very much appreciate her skipping that to be here. We must therefore have the courtesy to keep it fairly pointy and concise today. Madam Secretary of State, I'd like to hear from you what your seven cubes are, and we'll write along. After each block, would you please indicate that the block is at an end? Then there can be an interruption at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a very short block for introduction. The second block is a general block on a number of issues relating to the target provisions of the legislation. The third block is about territorial protection. The fourth block is about species of protection. The fifth block concerns hunting. The sixth block contains other topics. In the seventh and final block I will give a response to the motions tabled. The amendments tabled after the letter had been sent will provide for an opinion in the substantive blocks. This also applies to amendments which have been called for once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u119	I have a point of order. Yesterday, when the Environment Act was being discussed, more than 100 amendments were tabled. At that time, the Minister said very kindly that she would put the judgments before us in an overview. Is this also possible for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u120	In writing, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u121	Yes, because many amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u122	An overview in which each amendment merely says "dissuade" or "judge Chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u124	That should be possible. I look at my officials very nicely, but they look back quite sadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u125	No weekend for the civil servants this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u126	Well, that's not gonna be so bad. Maybe I can start with a few introductory remarks. Both last Monday in the legislative consultation and today in the plenary, we debated the future of nature legislation. That debate is sometimes rather solid. I think this is good, because it shows that this is more than a technical exercise. Nature is a subject that affects people. That's important to establish. The contributions of the various political groups to the debate make it clear that the aim of protecting and strengthening nature and landscape is, I say, broadly shared. Everyone is aware that in practice we need an acceptable legal system with an acceptable burden, which takes into account the space needed for other developments and interests. It is also clear that legislation alone is not enough for nature. Legislation and binding instruments for the standardisation of behavior cannot be missed, but management and the actual investment in nature conservation and development are at least as important to achieve that robust nature that we go for, a nature that can take a hit. That is essential, especially in a country with a space pressure like the Netherlands; Mr Smaling referred to it. Nature must not only be protected, but can also be experienced and exploited. I want to mark the fact that we've really hit a hell of a lot over the last couple of years. Almost all Natura 2000 sites still to be designated have now been identified. We have a lot of management plans in order. The PAS will start on 1 July next. We've closed the Natural Pact with the provinces. We've made investments possible again. We see in the field that the decline in biodiversity is slowly but surely coming to a halt. There are even points of light or improvements here and there. In the debate on nature, the different interests that are weighed do not, of course, lead to the same outcome for every group. That's what you see in this bill. There's hardly any other way to do that with a subject like this. Yet we will have to come to a future-proof new system with each other. It must be less complicated than the present one, which is in need of modernisation. Mrs Ouwehand does not share that point of view, but there is broad agreement on this. The system should also take account of the administrative division of responsibilities, where the provinces have a central role to play in the implementation of nature policy and the design of land-based policies. I believe that this legislative proposal has brought together the different perspectives within the political spectrum as well as possible. That has been my motivation from the beginning. It is a compromise between these different approaches and I think it is also the best possible compromise. Against this background, I have assessed the amendments. I think it was Mr Geurts who asked me whether the decision-making machinery would look anything different than that of last Monday. The answer to that is, I hope, yes, but it is, of course, up to the Chamber to judge that. I would like to add one more thing. Of course, we didn't start from the beginning. The previous bill that the previous cabinet deposited with the Chamber was clearly not able to count on a majority in the House of Representatives. There were initiatives at that time, among others from the parties that united in Beautiful Netherlands. Many of these initiatives, but not all and not all exactly as submitted, have been included in the letter of amendment as it stands. This attempt has been made to bring that previously unfeeling balance into the legislative proposal before us. I think that perhaps Mr Grashoff, for example, could have counted his blessings today. He made a very critical speech. It's okay, and that's his right. However, I would have liked it if it had been possible at least for a moment to celebrate the fact that all the achievements that his group has been working on for years have been included in the current legislative proposal, whether with me or with a few others. I am also looking at Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr Leenders and all those pillars behind it. With regard to the right of different views, I also refer to the main editorial commentary in NRC Handelsblad last Friday. It was about a subject where the blood of the Members of Parliament is getting to a temperature, namely the hunt. I will deal with this subject in detail later. It was said: you have to bridge contradictions, dare to abandon ideological positions, and respect each other's views. In this context, the coalition's proposal on hunting, the compromise, has been seen as a sensible step forward. I honestly think that trying to find each other in that way is the way to finally move forward together. I have also tried to do this by including, for example, the element in the own-initiative paper. And yes: at the end of the day you will not be able to agree on certain things. I am sure that this will also be visible to the left and right in the response to the amendments. However, you can then make an attempt to get closer to each other. End of block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u127	I'd love to count my blessings, but I'll do it when they get there. And that's exactly where it's waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u128	I believe that many of the proposals made by Mr Grashoff's group in the Netherlands have been taken over by the cabinet. Doesn't he have an eye for that? These points are already simply on the table as a proposal. I'm gonna move on to the General Block. There is a discussion on the subject of the target definition. This, of course, also has a direct relationship with a subject that is of great value to a number of groups, namely its intrinsic value. Mr Dijkgraaf has asked questions about this with a number of others. The inclusion of the target provision in the law, in Article 1.8a, reflects the central nature of the aforementioned reasons in this bill. Confusion or ambiguity cannot give the target definition, given the extensive exchange of views in the examination of this legislative proposal. Indeed, it is not a question of setting substantive standards, and the provision does not provide a basis for further or additional requirements for citizens and businesses. The provision merely explains why the proposed rules of the legislative proposal are being drawn up. The same applies to the concept of 'intrinsic value', which is part of the target definition. This provision also does not increase regulatory pressure, as confirmed in the SIRA Consulting report. Mr Dijkgraaf has an amendment on this point. 106. The amendment aligns the target clause with that of the Environment Act. The legislative proposal states that administrative bodies carry out their tasks and powers for the purposes set out in paragraph 1, as specified by or under this law. The latter underlines that the objectives have no independent meaning. The content of the law sets out these objectives. Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment replaces that last piece. It gives the objectives an independent meaning and allows them to lead the exercise of tasks and powers, unless specific rules are laid down. For the Environment Act, such a provision is logical, because it gives very general powers but also lays down specific rules on parts which should be introduced in that case. For the Nature Protection Bill, it's different. The law does not provide open powers and fills in the content of the regime. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 106. Mr Dijkgraaf has tabled a motion along with this amendment. I will also give a ruling on this, but I am happy to do so at the end of my speech, when I deal with all the motions. Otherwise, my laundry list of answers is too mixed up. I hope that Mr Dijkgraaf does not blame me. Mrs Dik-Faber has an amendment to item No. No 109 tabled to replace the amendment to item No 109. 75. The aim of the amendment is to describe the main features of nature policy in the national nature vision in conjunction with the policy of tackling climate change. In my response to the amendment to item No. I did not recommend that I should have said that climate policy was included in the policy to ensure the sustainability of the economy. This is also mentioned in Article 1.5. I think that the amendment as it has now been tabled on item No. 109, a clarification is in relation to the earlier amendment on item No. 75, because that does not call for a self-contained approach towards climate policy, as it were, from the point of view of nature. There was the objection to the amendment in part No. 75. That is why I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. The Smaling amendment in part No. 113 is about the transition from the old protection regime of Natural Monuments. In fact, Mr Smaling proposes that this should continue until provinces have taken a decision on the protection of the areas. I do not recommend the adoption of this amendment. The draft law abolishes the protection regime because it imposes unnecessary burdens on citizens and entrepreneurs. The protection is generally already regulated, because the areas are already largely part of the Nature Network Netherlands. This does not apply to 4% of the surface area. That is what Mr Smaling is actually talking about in his amendment. It goes too far for me to organise a separate transitional regime for this. In the Van Veldhoven amendment to item No. 117 provides for the monitoring of the conservation status of habitats and species and the promotion of scientific research by the Minister of EZ to include species on the red list and their habitats. The current Article 1.7 is only included to implement the obligations in this respect under the Birds and Habitats Directives. A very large proportion of the redlisted species are covered, as they coincide with the species and habitats listed in Section A which need to be protected under the Birds and Habitats Directives. The fact that the Minister of EZ also follows the conservation status of the other species in the light of the Convention on Biodiversity is self-evident. However, that is different from anchoring it separately in the legislation. That is why I reject this amendment. Let me now turn to the monitoring amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u129	The Secretary of State agrees with me on the one hand, because she says that it is logical that the ruler should follow those species. But she doesn't want to do it through the law. How does she see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u130	In any case, we will continue to follow the state of nature, as we now regularly receive it through all kinds of reports. As far as I know, the same applies to all species. We have had reports on this recently. It seems to me that, on its own, this is a good basis for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u131	Yeah, but the article in question doesn't say that you can't do this through monitoring. It only indicates that, if a species is threatened, special attention should be paid to it. I think those two things are perfectly compatible. We pay extra attention to endangered animal and plant species in the Netherlands. In fact, that is what the amendment means, and that can be done very well by monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u132	It's already happening. The question is why, in addition to everything that is already provided for in the law, you would like to arrange an additional guarantee, when you know that it is actually already happening. I just don't see the added value of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u133	If you don't mention it, you might actually say: it's fine if it doesn't happen. The purpose of the Secretary of State is expressly to do so. Then you'd better record it for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u134	In the context of the discussion of this bill, I have said what I intend to do. In my opinion, even without the intention of a ruler, that monitoring is a fact anyway. I do not think there is any need to further secure it by means of this bill. I shall now turn to another amendment tabled by Mrs van Veldhoven, namely the amendment that now contains part No. 118 and which had previously been submitted under No. 60. The amendment in part No. 118 of Mr Van Veldhoven replaces, as has been said, that in part No. 60. This amendment anchors in the law the requirement for joint monitoring of the accountability of the effort made to achieve objectives under the Birds and Habitats Directives. It also regulates the provision of information to the House of Representatives about the Dutch Nature Network on the basis of data from the provinces. I have no objection to this amendment and I think it is very well formulated in this way. As far as I'm concerned, it also reflects the way it's gonna work. The provinces primarily monitor the achievement of the conservation objectives of the nature network in the Netherlands on the basis of a jointly developed monitoring system. On that basis, I can monitor progress, answer to the European Union and inform the Chamber. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. That's the end of my general block. I now come to the area protection block, and first of all to the Van Veldhoven amendment on the landscapes, which is now numbered 121, but first No. 15. This amendment reflects the importance of land protection policy in the purpose definition of the legislative proposal. It also provides for a specific predicate special provincial landscapes. The amendment is in relation to that on No. 15 on a number of points. Landscape policy is a subject that the national and provincial nature vision must address with attention and the change in the target definition is also in line with this. The bill already regulates that because of landscape values provinces can give special provincial nature areas the predicate and that predicate is not really covering landscapes. You could say that the amendment as it has now been tabled repairs that. The amendment does not create additional regulatory pressure and I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. I shall now turn to the amendment tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Grashoff to item No. No 131 to replace that in document No 131 to replace that in document No 131 to replace that in document No 131 to replace that in document No 131 to replace that in document No 131 to replace that in document No 131 to replace that in document No 131 to replace that Here, too, a transitional arrangement is recommended. As mentioned above, only 4% of natural monuments are excluded from the Nature Network. The same applies to this amendment as I said about the earlier amendment for the same purpose, namely that I wish to discourage it. Then I'll get to the species protection block. The amendment in part No. 105 of Mr Geurts arranges for a decision on re-introducing or eviction to be taken in accordance with the provinces in which that act will take place. The bill provides for consultation with the provinces and not with consent. The amendment in part No. 105 replaces the amendment in part No. 49. On this point, I said that I consider a consultation obligation sufficient. The amendment in part No. 105 the amendment fits in with point No. 49 in the sense that Mr Geurts has clarified that these are the provinces in which expulsion takes place. I think that is an improvement on the previous proposal. It's easier and more workable. That is why I agree with the amendment and I would like to leave it to the Chamber. Mr Geurts has an amendment to point No. 108. This concerns the approval of provinces when it comes to combating invasive exotics. This amendment provides that the designation of invasive exotics to be contested by the provinces shall be in accordance with the provinces responsible for carrying out the fight. The bill provides for consultation with the provinces and not for agreement by the provinces. I have said before that the views of the provinces will weigh very heavily on me. I understand Mr Geurts' consideration of replacing the consultation obligation with a right of assent. He wanted a gesture. Now, I agree with this, and I leave it to you to decide on Amendment No 2. 108, please. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 114 by Mr Smaling, in which he asked for an AMvB to designate additional national species with a heavy afterhang. That amendment replaces the amendment in part No. 51. It makes it possible to identify additional species at AMvB that should be protected on the basis of national policies. The substance of the amendment has actually remained the same as that of the amendment in respect of item No. 51, which I didn't advise. For the same reason, I also advise against this amendment. Mr Geurts has asked me a question about stone martens. He asked me whether I am convinced that the fight against stone martens by individuals is well regulated by this law. I think it is important that the bill should allow for measures to be taken against animals that cause nuisance or damage. In the case of the rock mart, it's a lot of trouble. The bill does that by giving space to the provinces to deliver customization. The provinces are therefore empowered to pay compensation in the event of game damage. I'm confident they'll really handle that wisely. Then I have the Van Veldhoven amendment to item No. 124. It calls for a national database providing information on the dissemination and prevention of protected species of fauna and flora and other relevant nature information. The provinces are responsible for this database and it is not appropriate to regulate this by law. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u135	In the long term, there will be the Laan van de Leefenvironment as part of the Environment Act. This law will also be integrated into the Environment Act. The aim of the Laan van de Levenenvironment is that citizens and businesses can see with one push of a button what rules they are dealing with. Wouldn't it be nice if the nature data were included? After all, you immediately know if there is another protected animal or plant species that you have to take into account your plans. If we change the amendment in such a way that we do justice to the role of the provinces in establishing that bank, but make the link to the Lane of the Environment, would the Secretary of State want to take a constructive look at it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u136	My problem is that I do want it all, but that I use it to impose legislation on the provinces something that I don't know if they can just do it and if they can afford it. That's my problem. I think you might be wiser to ask me something else. We are going to talk about the evaluation and what happens when this legislation becomes part of environmental legislation. I can imagine that this should then be the subject of discussion. How do you do that? Is it well arranged? That is just a little less binding, and that is why I think it is better to put the provinces on the agenda than if one night I have to decide something for them, which I really cannot see what it is asking of them. I wouldn't think that was fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u137	I think this is a legitimate point from the Secretary of State. If she says: in principle, I support the ambition of the Laan van de Levenenvironment to make as much information as possible available and I am prepared to discuss this point further with the provinces to see if that is possible. We also have an introduction law, so there is still a possibility to do so later too. I withdraw the amendment for the moment and I would like to hear from the State Secretary how the consultation with the provinces went on this point. Then I'll keep the idea until the law of introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u138	That seems to me a good deal, because that means that I can take it with me at a forthcoming administrative meeting. We will have these discussions on a regular basis, and I have promised Mrs Dik before that I would report to the Chamber every time. Then Mrs Van Veldhoven will also receive an answer from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u139	The Van Veldhoven amendment (Doc. 124) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u140	I'm getting to the yacht block, damage control and population management. For me, it is important to find a good balance, which does justice to the different views on hunting. It is important that hunting, population management and damage control are made transparent, that there is central control through a fauna management plan and that there is also room for what I would like to call strange eyes in the management of fauna management units. Something has been said about the willingness of civil society to join or not join the fauna management units. I would like to take this opportunity to call on these organisations to do so. If you get the opportunity to talk to and decide with at the table where things are decided openly, then you can't say you don't want to or you don't want to. I think that is a very strange reason. I think you should use that space. The transparency that needs to be provided on this dossier is necessary for the creation of more support for all groups in our society. I think it's a profit that hunters are going to provide their data on waste to the fauna management units. There has been a lot of work to be done on the amendment to item No. 53. In the meantime, there is a new amendment tabled by Mr Heerema and Mr Leenders, and that is the amendment tabled by Mr No. 107. For the history of law, it is important that I indicate how I see that amendment. What does that require of the different parties and what does that mean? The amendment deals with what was mentioned by Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Dik-Faber during last Monday's legislative process. This concerns transparency at the front of the process. They have mentioned examples. I draw attention to the valuable trend counts that have added value, as well as, for example, trend data from other organisations such as Sovon. The central role of the fauna management units and the fauna management plan in this bill can be a real boost to follow the good examples, including for the hunter. However, it is important that the provision of the data is voluntary and not on the basis of paper obligations in which you get a huge regulatory burden. I am pleased to hear that Mrs Dik-Faber said that she takes the rule printing report seriously. She is not looking to get into a lot of trouble in that regard. In the Flora and fauna law, the fauna management plan is now only about population management. Anyone who says that the Flora and fauna law is actually great, especially in comparison to the legislative proposal before us, including the amendments, I would like to start by pointing out that. That's where the fauna management plan is based on population management. In the bill Nature Conservation Act, the scope of the fauna management plan is extended to the fight against damage and to hunting. This means that there must be a coherent approach in which efforts in the areas of population management, damage control and hunting are coordinated. The amendment in part No. 107 just leaves this intact, too. In addition, the bill stipulates that those who do population management, fight damage or hunt must do so in accordance with the fauna management plan. This is set out in Article 3.12 (1). Moreover, it follows from the fourth paragraph of Article 3.14 of the legislative proposal that the exemption for combating injury may only be applied if there is a clear relationship between the threat of injury and the species on the exemption list under consideration. In the withdrawn amendment to item No. 53 was first removed from the obligation to act in accordance with the fauna management plan. The amendment in part No. 107 adjusts this and withdraws that obligation. Under the bill as it stands, the obligation to act in accordance with the Fauna Management Plan can be maintained under criminal law. I submitted that proposal to you. For this reason, the current text of the bill provides for a separate discharge plan. It is something that the current Flora and fauna law did not provide for. It's not a situation we've already had. Mr Leenders rightly said that if you compare the current Flora and fauna law with the bill including the amendment, there is indeed an improvement. The only problem was that part of the proposal that was before the Chamber brought new obligations, which, according to the SIRA report, potentially resulted in a huge burden burden for game keepers who generally take care of the waste in the context of the game management units. If you want to enforce such an obligation in criminal matters and to obtain the evidence, the hunting certificate holder must keep an accurate record of compliance. In addition, in order to have a clear picture of the numbers to be shot and not to be shot, the discharge plan will also have to provide for precise numbers of animals to be shot. Such data should come from the game management units and the associated hunting certificates. These administrative burdens have caused a great deal of turmoil on the hunting certificate holders. We need them, including for the implementation of management and for the fight against damage. That is why the amendment on item No. 107 removed the discharge plan and also the criminal enforcement of compliance with the Fauna Management Plan. This does not mean that this does not mean that it is sometimes suggested that compliance cannot be enforced. It can indeed be maintained under administrative law, for example by periodic penalty payments. That's what Article 7.2 of the bill says. Administrative enforcement is actually much more appropriate, as better tailor-made solutions can be offered. The penalty charge may be used to specify the standard to which the hunting licence holder has to comply in the specific case. If he doesn't, he's gonna drop a penalty. In addition, Article 3.13 of the bill provides for hunting certificates to be members of wild game management units. This is also new in relation to the Flora and fauna law. In this way, regional embedding and social control of hunting certificates are ensured. If a hunting licence holder acts contrary to the fauna management plan, he may be disbarred as a member and that means that his hunting licence must be revoked. This is stated in Article 3.26, second paragraph, part c, of the legislative proposal. Then you won't be able to hunt anymore. The amendment in part No. 107 leaves all these things intact. New in relation to the Flora and fauna law and the bill is the socialisation of the management of the fauna management unit, as in the amendment to item No. 107 up. The amendment provides that at least civil society organisations are represented in the administration with the aim of ensuring sustainable management of populations. They thus have a say in the decision-making process. This takes place on the one hand professionalisation and, on the other hand, increased transparency. Transparency will also be increased by adding to the amendment a provision that the fauna management plan is always made public. Of course, the fauna management plan will provide basic insight into the development of populations of the different species. This can be done on the basis of reasonably available data. The trend data from NEM or CBS, Sovon, the Zoogdiersvereniging and the trend censuses currently carried out by hunters in some game management units should be taken into account. In this way, I would like to say to Mrs Dik and others that they are public because of the fact that they are the basis of the fauna management plan. In addition, the amendment in a new Article 3.12a is new in relation to the Flora and fauna law, but also new in relation to the proposal I had submitted to the Chamber, which provides for the provision of information by hunting certificate holders on the actual discharge. Such data may also be involved in the preparation or revision of the fauna management plan. In other words, I have actually tried to clarify what will happen in practice in the future when the Chamber amends part No. 107 would take. I think it's necessary to take away misunderstandings. I think that is also necessary for people who later wonder what exactly is the explanation of the law. What exactly does it say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u141	I see Mrs Thieme at the interrupting microphone, but first we finish the hunt. So wait a moment, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u142	So it will be very difficult, Mr President, to discuss with the Secretary of State what she claims, namely that the amendment is an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u143	Yeah, but that's how we're gonna do it. We'll keep the cubes in honor for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u144	I come to the discussion that has taken place between Mr Grashoff and Mr Heerema on the question of the question of maintaining a reasonable wildlife versus acting in accordance with the fauna management plan. For hunting and damage control, the fauna management plan acts as a dome. On the basis of the mandatory predatory data to be provided by hunters and voluntary estimates and wild trends to be provided, and where reasonably possible on the basis of censuses, the necessary efforts shall be directed in a global manner. This ensures coordination of the various efforts in the region. It is then up to the hunting certificate holder himself to determine within these guidelines what is needed in his hunting field to maintain a reasonable wild mode. It is up to the land user to determine, within the guidelines of the fauna management plan, what is needed to combat damage. These are obligations on which both hunters and land users can be addressed. I would add that, if they do not do so, they can also be prosecuted. We are now talking about the element of the fight against damage. As has already been said, therefore, there is also the question of public access to the fauna management plan in the amendment on item No. 107 explicit explanation. Article 3.12 (6) states that the fauna management plan shall be made public. Article 3.12a (2) states: "Fauna Management Units" shall provide an overview consisting of debris data and reports on the implementation of the Fauna Management Plans and the justification. Mrs Thieme says that there are legal scholars who consider the land users' anti-damage regime to be contrary to European law. This is always a discussion among lawyers. My lawyers' reply is that this provision is in line with the Birds and Habitats Directives. The conservation requirement shall be reviewed when species are included on the national or provincial list. The requirement that there is no other satisfactory solution is laid down in Articles 3.3 and 3.8. The demands for types of damage in the bill come from the directives. There's a causal link. The damage is likely to occur in a current or next year. That's the causal link. Mr Van Klaveren wondered whether I also thought there was a demonisation of hunting. No. I can see that there is a fierce social debate going on. I think it is in itself a good thing that that is being fed. Mr Van Klaveren says that reporting afterwards is good and an improvement, but he wonders how the implementation of an additional seat in the fauna management units will take place. That's up to provinces. They are responsible for the composition of the fauna management units. This will probably lead to debate locally, in those provinces. At least that is what I am assuming, and that seems to me to be excellent. Organisations will also come forward. At least that's what I'm assuming. Organisations will raise their finger and say: we want to talk about that. It is, in the end, a provincial democratic balance in which the States factions will play their part in deciding what that will look like. Mr Graus asked if I could make it possible to force a silencer in the event of a gunshot. Instruments like the silencer are also regulated in the Arms and Ammunition Act, which has a very strict licensing policy. The Minister of Security and Justice may grant an authorisation under strict conditions to plant managers who are in permanent service with land managers. I now come to a large number of amendments that have still been tabled on this subject. First of all, I would like to refer to the amendments tabled by Mrs Thieme in respect of item Nos. 96 and 101, which advocate a ban on the hail rifle. The amendment in part No. 96 states that only shotguns may be used in hunting. Hailguns may not be used anymore. The amendment in part No. 101 determines the same with regard to management and damage control. I do not think we will agree on the use of shotguns in smaller species, because the risk of non-lethal injuries is less animal-friendly than the use of the shotgun. Under the Flora and fauna law the hunt for hare, pheasant and wild duck is therefore only allowed with a hail rifle. I do not think it is right to allow only the use of the bullet gun in hunting, combating damage and management because it has potentially negative consequences for animal welfare. The implementing rules will determine, as is now the case under the Flora and fauna Act, which type of gun is suitable for any species. That is why I reject both amendments. The Smaling amendment in part No. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. 23 replaces, deals with the hunting ban in nature reserves. It provides for a ban on hunting in Natura 2000 sites and special national nature reserves. Mr Smaling deleted the reference to the Ramsar areas because they were also designated as Natura 2000. This is no reason for me to judge the amendment on item No. amend 97. I therefore reject the amendment. The Smaling amendment in part No. 98 replaces the amendment in part No. 35. It's about demands you can make on the composition of the board of fauna management units. We have already said that provinces can lay down rules under Article 3.12, eighth paragraph, on the composition of the administration. I do not think that there is any need for a legislative power to approve the composition of the board. In the end, I think that this amendment to Mr Smaling's amendment is no reason to change the previous judgment, which is not recommended. The sub-amendment tabled by Mr Dik-Faber to item No. 110 replaces the amendment in part No. 84. This sub-amendment has been retabled because the Rudmer Heerema/Leenders amendment No. 53 to which it refers has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 107. The substance of the amendment is that of item No. 110 equal to the amendment in part No. 84, which I dissuaded by letter. With reference to the letter, I do so again for the same reasons. The amendments tabled by Mrs Thieme to item No. 149 and 150 call for a legal ban on hunting from vehicles, vessels and aircraft. The amendments provide for a legal ban on this. The current Flora and fauna law also provides for this ban. In the bill we have arranged that this ban can be imposed on General Measure of Management as part of the implementing regulations on hunting. It is my intention to include this ban in the AMvB, but not in the law, so I say to Mrs Thieme. That is why I reject this amendment. We'll do that in another system. It was already forbidden, it remains, but we arrange it through the AMvB. For this technical reason, I do not recommend this amendment or these amendments. That's how I'm supposed to put it, 'cause there's two of them. I come to the amendment to item No. 100 by Mrs Thieme. That amendment sees a ban on hunting for people under the age of 21. Only 21-year-olds will be entitled to hunt on the basis of Mrs Thieme's amendment. In the Arms and Ammunition Act, the minimum age for carrying guns is 18 years. The bill is in line with that. It has a minimum age of 18 years, as in the current Flora and fauna law. The bill requires that the hunter has passed the hunting exam with a favourable effect and that it is thus assured that the hunter's theoretical knowledge and practical skills are in order. I think it's important to say that here, because a lot of people don't know that. I don't know why someone 18 or 20 years old who passed the hunting test wouldn't be suitable. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 100. I come to the amendments to the Nos. 102 and 115. Those amendments concern the ban on the use of decoy ducks and decoy pigeons. Both amendments provide that both for hunting and for management and the fight against damage. Mr Thieme pointed out the risk of illegal withdrawal of these species from nature and possible animal welfare infringements. I must say that ducks and pigeons are bred and kept on a large scale. It is not clear to me why they should be taken from nature for this. That would be illegal, by the way. I very much agree with Mrs Thieme. They're kept animals. Animal welfare legislation shall apply to them in full. Lokenders and decoys are traditionally allowed, because they are effective tools in hunting and damage control. I see no reason not to allow the use. I therefore reject both amendments. I come to the amendment to item No. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. 104 replaces. This amendment is about a legal ban on using instruments to kill and catch animals at night. For the purposes of hunting, such instruments are prohibited in the legislative proposal. They're not on the positive list for hunting equipment either. However, we have been discussing this for a long time. The use of those substances is not permitted for population management and damage control of species on the provincial list. Only where it is explicitly provided for in the exemption or exemption from the provinces, the use of those resources is possible. When authorising, i.e. actually when granting the exemption or exemption, provinces must take account of animal welfare. Since it is already very precisely regulated, I would advise against the amendment to item No. 116. I come to the sub-amendment to Part No. 911. That too has been retabled because it sees the amendment on item No. 53 which has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 107. In substance, the amendment is equivalent to the amendment in part No. 78. I have already stated in the letter that I agree with this replacement amendment. The same applies to this new issue, because the amendment is actually the same. This amendment provides that managers of the fauna management units may also invite representatives of other civil society organisations and scientists in the field of fauna management. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the opinion on that amendment remains with the Chamber. Then we have a further amended sub-amendment from Mr Smaling to item No. 123 to replace the amendment to item No. 91. This ensures that organisations, aimed at improving animal welfare, participate in the fauna management units. I've just kept a very long story that I think you should leave it to local democracy. I think that is a very good way forward. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. Then I come to the amended sub-amendment tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and others. in piece No. 136, replacing Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 I'm gonna have to think about this. It states that there should be a verifiable, quantitative justification of the indicative size of the populations of the different species and so on. However, as I read the amendment, the back door brings back the firing plan that we did not want. Mrs Dik does write, and that is very much to be appreciated, that the aim is not to create more administrative burdens for hunters. I like that, but my assessment is that this mandatory provision in the amendment will lead to that. The amendment replaces the amendment in part No. 77, which I've previously advised against. The potential does indeed lead to higher charges similar to the discharge plan. I have tried to explain that with this bill as the amendment to item No. 107 would be adopted, the desired transparency would come in advance, because censuses and data would become public, which would form the basis for the fauna management plan, because that was what it was all about. That way it could be arranged. For this reason, I believe that there should be no confusion about what we expect or not. There has just been an amendment to item No. 158 tabled by Mr Thieme, who is dealing with a pending procedure for the AMvBs on hunting and the fight against damage. My attitude is always that I consult with the Chamber on such matters, but I honestly do not think that such a difficult procedure is necessary. For this reason, I would advise against the amendment, but given the sensitivity of society, it seems fine to discuss the regulation with the Chamber at the time it is before it. This can also be done in general consultation. I understood that Mrs Thieme had a new amendment to item No. I have tabled a motion for a resolution to replace Amendment No 157, which seeks to replace Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by I'd already advised against that, and I'm gonna keep doing it. That brings me to the end of this block, at least as far as my input is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u145	Fauna management units are required by law to draw up a plan for the management of fauna, but the coalition partners have not yet decided whether to ban the hunting of pleasures. The PvdA took it down. For this reason, an amendment has been tabled to delete the Secretary of State's plan to link a discharge plan to the fauna management plan. There may be a lot of things in the fauna management plan, for example about how caring you should deal with a particular nature area or work area, but there is no more discharge plan in it, or at least that is not mandatory. That also means that the orders to the hunters are not about the gun at all and that the hunters get all the space to do it at their own discretion. The Secretary of State said that a causal link between loss and foreseeable damage is indeed required, but that is not the case. There is only a threat of damage in the current year and for the coming year. That means that the farmer and the hunter can decide for themselves. There's nothing standing in their way, not even a fauna management plan. Surely the Secretary of State agrees with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u146	You have said a great deal, but I disagree with a great deal of what you have said. First of all, you yourself said, even in amendments if I am right, that the fauna management plan and the wildlife management units as an instrument would not be sufficient at all. You are now telling me in the debate how important these are, when you yourself asked why we actually have them. That's a contradiction in itself, but okay. I think the fauna management plan is important. I think it is an absolute gain that, for the first time, not only population management and the fight against damage, but also the hunting of the five wild species are part of the fauna management plan. I think it is a gain that hunters should now join a game management unit and be bound by it to implement the fauna management plan. I think it is important that this fauna management plan be made public. This applies not only to the way in which it is created but also to the data on the actual discharge. I believe it is important that civil society organisations, whether they represent animal welfare or sustainable hunting, can contribute to the development of the fauna management plan. We can talk long or short about it: it is not Mrs Thieme's ideal model. That is true, but I find it really cynical that Mrs Thieme is not able to recognise, at least on the basis of what the current Flora and fauna law provides and which makes possible the future law, that it is an improvement. It may not be the improvement she wanted, but it is an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u147	I am debating this with the Secretary of State because she herself says that the fauna management unit is so important. I am trying to show that this is absolutely not the case. There is nothing to be demanded for the shooting of animals, which hunters only deal with. So it is a great farce to describe here that the fauna management plan will restrict the activities of hunters. That is not the case, especially since there are no sanctions for whistling the hunters back. There's no sanction for shooting too many animals. There is also no sanction for the shooting off of animals, and the fauna management unit might not want that. There is only a penalty for the hunters if they do not comply with the reporting obligation. What is the use of a hunter's data on the number of animals he has fired if we do not first have a plan for the maximum number of animals that can be fired?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u148	So I'm arguing that there's not going to be such a plan. The point is that the level of information on the exact number of animals, right up to the last animal, as originally envisaged in the discharge plan, would lead to such an administrative burden that a large part of the Chamber, not Mrs Thieme's group, but a large part of the Chamber, said that it might not be possible to do so on closer inspection. The amendment that is now being proposed foresees that all three types of hunting, whether for population management, for damage control or hunting for the five species, will become part of the fauna management plan. That plan is being made public. It shall be based on information to be disclosed. Organisations from outside, who have not been able to sit at the table so far, are called in to give an opinion on it. It may be maintained under administrative law. If there are abuses or infringements in the fight against damage, for example, criminal action may also be taken. Mrs Thieme always wants to make it appear that nothing happens, but that is unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u149	I am very grateful for what the Secretary of State said about the silencer for the shotgun. I know that the Ministry of Justice can grant an exemption, but my question was whether, in the event of an emergency discharge by veterinarians or professional forest rangers, a hunting damper cannot be used structurally, so that dozens of other animals do not panic for miles and cross the road. I would like to explain this. On the Veluwe we went from 4,500 pigs to 1,500 pigs, but the number of accidents by shooting in the dense forests increased. You have to leave those animals alone, or they're just gonna run and move. If necessary, structuralally use a hunting damper. That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u150	Again, I'm very precise about that. The Minister of Security and Justice makes regulations when it comes to the Arms and Ammo Act. As far as I know, this is also the case with the legislation before us. Indeed, it is not in this bill to prescribe this structuralally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u151	Perhaps the Secretary of State could consider that. She is, of course, in those working groups and advisory bodies. As Secretary of State, at least she has an influence on it. I have a second question about the hunting certificate. I am very grateful that a hunting certificate can be revoked if a hunter has done something that is not right. It's quite common. However, the weapon must also be seized. With green boas in practice, I have now experienced a few times that they are arresting hunters without a hunting license who have just been allowed to keep their weapons. Of course you can't. So you not only have to withdraw the hunting certificate, and these hunters must not only be wiped out of the hunter's association, but also their weapons must be confiscated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u152	It makes sense, but I can imagine that the property debate on weapons based on the Arms and Ammunition Act is just being settled by a different angle. Mr Graus is asking me over now. I can't see how this is done right now. I suspect that some of those regulations go through the justice system. My advice to Mr Graus would be to ask the Minister for Security and Justice one more time. He might be able to do that in writing, or at another time. Property of arms in this country is, of course, regulated from his point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u153	The Secretary of State has given a wonderful explanation of the amendment to item No. 107 and said how it is meant for her. What she means, however, is not in it at all. She mentioned planning management and censuses, but not pre-counting. The latter is not included in the amendment either. Shouldn't the amendment be amended on that point too? That's what's missing. At the most, there is a brief reference in the explanatory memorandum. It does not appear at all in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u154	I disagree with Mrs Dik-Faber. I've been expecting this reaction. That is why I only took the amendment. Let me say two things. The explanation I give here is also part of the legal history and therefore of importance. For example, paragraph 4 states that a sentence is added to paragraph 6: "An approved fauna management plan shall be made public by the relevant fauna management unit." Indeed, the explanatory statement states that effective and planned work is being carried out. This can be seen in all three parts: the fight against damage, as well as population management, as well as hunting. That's really important. That's what the original bill said, and it's also in here. The fauna management plan is also now made on the basis of censuses, or trend censuses, as Mrs Dik called them, and data. I think she knows that even better than I do. The difference with the amendment she tabled is that she is really adding another blow to this. I read the amendment in such a way that the fauna management plan is made on the basis of the data that is now being collected. Mrs Dik's amendment adds an enormous amount of professionalism. It says that it all has to be unambiguous, and by doing so it implies that more needs to be delivered than is currently the case. Surely that will be a potential increase in charges. Mrs Dik rightly said that she is not in favour of this. That is what she wrote in her explanatory statement. For example, the explanatory memorandum also states that game management units provide implementation data. I think you can see in a lot of places that the fauna management plan is the central control tool. It also provides for a planned and efficient approach. This is also contained in the explanatory notes to Part II. That sentence is very crucial, it is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u155	I have also read all this in the amendment. Indeed, the legal text contains the fauna management plan and Part II of the explanatory memorandum contains the definition that it provides for a planned and efficient approach. Why isn't that just included in the legal text? That can be included before the sentence I just quoted: that the hunters provide data that they are already providing. However, it does not say anywhere that this is about trend counts. With my amendment, I did not intend to put my head on it. I think we're talking about the same thing. The current trend figures must be provided and, on this basis, a planned and effective approach, also desirable by the Secretary of State and the Coalition, must be achieved. Those counts just need to be delivered. Otherwise, it can't even be done. Then write it down, I'd like to say to the coalition. Put it in the amendment. Then we're out. Then I withdraw my amendment, then the coalition has a beautiful amendment and then we have achieved what we so badly want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u156	Mrs Dik has won the summer report of Vrij Nederland for a reason. It is extremely useful and also politically useful in getting good points. I have to give her a big compliment for that. My problem is that I am dealing with the amendment to item No. 107 as an explanation as I have indicated. I suppose and assume that in order to come up with a fauna management plan, you're just using the trend counts that are out there right now. They will therefore also become public when the fauna management plan is made public. Mrs Dik-Faber thinks that the amendment to item No. 107 does just a little too little, but I think her amendment is a little too many questions. It goes beyond just saying: there are trend counts. It talks about quantified data. I can read the whole amendment, but if you let it work on you, you can also read a potentially higher burden. I put the amendment to part No. 107 out as Mrs Dik-Faber would have liked. That is the existing practice of the data available. They will have to be used for the fauna management plan and they will therefore become public. My explanation is as it is. I am not talking about further discussions between Mrs Dik-Faber and other applicants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u157	If I could contribute to increasing Mrs Dik-Faber's score even further, I would like to do so, not because she is so handy, but because she is just putting her finger on the sore spot. The amendment in part No. 107 is still open to further explanation. It is important that you finally adopt a law that is as unambiguous as possible. In that context, I would like to put another question to the Secretary of State. I quote again from the explanatory statement to the amendment to item No. 107. I have done this before during the input of the PvdA and the VVD spokesmen. Here's what's in it. "The amendment establishes that, as in the Flora and Fauna Act, the hunter himself is responsible for maintaining a reasonable wildlife in his hunting field and preventing damage caused by wildlife present in his hunting field." Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is a clumsy passage, which could at least lead to a difference in interpretation and misinterpretation, and that it would be wisdom if it were deleted? In addition, I could imagine that it might be wise to include the aspect of a planned and effective approach in the text of the amendment. Then maybe we'll figure it out. Not that it would realize my ideal, but at least it would produce a sound and easily understandable amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u158	I believe that the phrase which Mr Grashoff finds confusing must always be seen in the light of the fact that hunting is at the same time part of the central management of fauna management plan. Those two things are in balance. It is not the case that the maintenance of a reasonable wildlife does not eliminate the need to work through the fauna management plan. That's how I want to explain it. I can imagine that we will have to write this down again for you, but I am now thinking of that on the spot. I've said it now, but if it leads to clarity, it can. The explanatory statement to the amendment makes it very clear that this is a matter of planning and efficiency. That phrase's in there. In my view, this is one of the phrases added to the amendment, precisely in order to ensure that the planned work put in place by a wider part of the Chamber in the previous legislative consultation takes place. At least that is how I understood the proposers. That is why we have tried to meet you. It is up to the proposers to say whether they intended it that way, but that is how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u159	With this explanation from the Secretary of State, I look forward to perhaps some consultation with the proposers on adaptation. It won't be my ideal, but it might help the clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u160	I would like to come back to the amendment on item No. 44 from my hand, on the discretion of the Chief Constable. There he is. I have received written answers to this. I get those answers. But I have a few other cases and I think I'll convince the Secretary of State with them. If the kids pick mushrooms from a hunter and he gets a report because he's responsible for those kids, he's lost his hunting license for two years. If a hunter's dog escapes and walks unlined in a forest where a leash applies and the hunter gets a report for that, he loses his hunting license for two years. That's what I'm talking about with the Chief Constable's discretion: this has nothing to do with hunting. It happens to the hunter. I know the Secretary of State has children, and I assume she knows you don't always know what they're doing. Isn't there any possibility of providing this amendment with the opinion "Court of Justice"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u161	I understand, with these examples, why Mr Geurts has tabled the amendment; let us be clear about that. There are two reasons why I think it's tricky after all. There may be a sliding scale. No one will immediately fall back on the examples you mention, although the unlined dog is about something someone does themselves. That's different from kids picking something. This puts the decision-making process at the hands of someone else and often the pressure. Now it's about examples where you think: well... But there are also examples of cases that go much further in the direction of something that you really shouldn't allow. However, such a person also comes along with an appeal to discretionary power. Then, on its own, it is clear that, at the moment when someone causes problems in nature or with animal welfare, you draw a clear line as regards the hunting certificate. I understand the examples very well, but I think it is also difficult to have police chiefs in this country deciding what the law is like. I think it's really dangerous if you do that. They also get cases that are a lot more complicated than the sympathetic ones you present to me. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u162	I'm still trying to get a little further on this point tonight. The law hasn't been introduced yet. Is it an idea that the Secretary of State and her colleague in the field of security and justice will see if she can do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u163	I wasn't in the "nuke-stand." I would like to respond to Mr Geurts, but there are things that I simply have to keep saying no to. I'm very sorry, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u164	Very good. We need a VAO in five minutes. Something in me says we're not gonna make it. We still have two large blocks to go, including 29 motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u165	I'll do my best. There's one small block and then the motions. I'll take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u166	Unfortunately, we do not have time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u167	It's already happened. Oh, boy. Those presidents aren't what they used to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u168	I have to be tough, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u169	I'm gonna go to the gym now. A question has been asked by Mr Geurts. I think it is good to say that much has been achieved with the Birds and Habitats Directives. I also said that the decline in biodiversity was on average stopped. That is precisely why we can now take the next step towards a future-proof nature policy. I have already discussed in detail with the Chamber what possibilities we see for a more flexible interpretation of the implementation of the directive with more scope for natural dynamics, more development of robust nature, less focus on conservation, linking nature developments to societal challenges and achieving goals at European level. There must be a plan from the Commission for this. In my opinion, it is preferable, also strategically, to incorporate the desired elements into existing legislation by adapting its implementation. Mr Heerema wanted a commitment on 5.1.7. The same applies to Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. Long story short: yes. I told you, but I'm gonna do it again. I have already promised the evaluation requested by Mr Heerema in the legislative consultation. I think it's very good to do that evaluation. It is important that the new system should show its operation in practice. We will have to look at what time we are shaping this, also in the light of the amendment that has been prepared for that purpose. I do not want to be the worst, but in the amendment to item No. Mrs Ouwehand's 119 evaluation clause has been included to evaluate the legislative proposal after three years. We need to think about that for a while, because it becomes part of the Environment Act at some point. However, I think that her intention is fine in itself, and I should like to leave it to the Chamber to decide on this amendment. Mr Graus remains tirelessly committed to the green boas. He knows I have no influence on the numbers. I know with him that it is very important, because in the south of the Netherlands, in particular, large quantities of drugs are dumped in the outskirts, with a lot of violence and aggression. We invest extra in training. We have spoken with the Minister for Security and Justice and the representatives of the boas. That Mr Graus continues to draw attention to this, I think it is right, but I just can't pull a whole can of boas out of the top hat. In the event of an emergency, a hunter must use the rifle. Of course, veterinarians are not only well trained for such a situation, but can also act very adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u170	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I shall come back to the story of the green boas at the budget debate later this year. I often go out with these guys, in the south of the Netherlands but also here in the west. They often find themselves in very frightening and dangerous situations and now it appears that they do not have a C2000 system. So they can't communicate directly with the police or an arrest unit. Can the Secretary of State from her department ensure consultation with Security and Justice to connect the green boas to C2000? That's for the safety of those boys.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u171	This issue was discussed during a consultation between the Minister of Security and Justice and organisations representing the Green Boas. I was there. They have brought in that they wanted to be involved, but here too it is a responsibility for Security and Justice. The subject has been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u172	Perhaps the Secretary of State can exert her influence, because she is the shepherd of the green boas. That is where the Secretary of State is in charge and perhaps she can urge her colleague from Security and Justice to join C2000 as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u173	I cannot promise, but I have heard Mr Graus correctly. I come to the motions and I start with the motion-Dick in part No. 122. The government must agree with provinces on the clarity of the responsibilities and inform the Chamber accordingly. I have already promised the Chamber that I intend to do so, including at the request of Mrs Dik, among others. She is now asking me to do so in writing with a motion, so I have no choice but to make this Chamber's judgment. In the motion in part No. 125 asks Mrs Dik to examine the possibilities of increasing the level of knowledge in the Netherlands on the management of fauna and hunting. I see this motion as a policy support and leave the motion to the House's judgment. Then I come to the theme of zero. Two motions have been tabled on this subject, one by Mr Geurts in respect of item No. 126 and another by Mrs Thieme on a song I'll come back to later. I believe in both cases that it is really up to the provinces to decide on this. They must be able to make their own assessment. Some are very much in favour of maintaining the zero position, others, for example, are planning for deer or red deer to open their provincial boundaries. This is now typical of what should be decided at that level as well. That is why I would advise against Mr Geurts' motion. Fortunately, there is also the motion in part No. 127, in which the government is invited to support the provinces in the control pressure of the fauna management plans and their implementation. There is indeed a transfer of responsibilities and I can very well imagine that we will be assisting with the knowledge that my departments have. That is why I consider that motion to support policy and leave it to the House to decide. In the motion in part No. 128 asks Mr Geurts to make an interim evaluation of the control pressure effects prior to the framing of the Nature Protection Act. I think it's good to do that with the provinces. In that sense, the motion supports policy, judgment Chamber. That's going well, isn't it, Mr. Geurts? Unfortunately, that does not apply to the motion in part No. 129. Mr Geurts asked me to set up a national database. We have just seen it come by in an amendment by Mrs Van Veldhoven, by way of a detour, so to speak. Under the leadership of the IPO and the provinces, agreements were made on the establishment of that national database. Currently, provinces, water boards, but also our department are financing that database. The provinces want the users to pay for it. I think that's a logical line. I don't have the resources to make it free. It is quite simple: there is no money, and for that reason I must advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Grashoff and Mr Leenders. They ask for proposals for the conservation and restoration of the grazing bird populations. I had already indicated in the legislative consultation that I would like to get to work on this. I can inform the Chamber that I have already discussed this with the provinces in order to link it to the creation of a common landscape vision. This would involve the general nature policy and specifically the question of what we can do about the protection of the meadow bird population. That is why I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. I think this is a very good idea. It is not easy with me and Mr Smaling today. I hate to break it to you, but there's nothing I can do about it. You come up with sharp proposals, Mr Smaling, think. Do I want to see exactly what is happening with 63 areas receiving other forms of protection? Do I want to keep it under review and report to the Chamber about that? That is what Mr Smaling is asking me in his motion on item No. 132. These areas, I say to him, are protected by the Decree on General Rules of Land Planning (Barro) and provincial rules. In order to ease the pressure on the department a little bit, I would really advise against that request, because it would be very spicy if we were to do the same. Then, by means of his motion, Mr Smaling would like to take part in the vote. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I'm afraid this isn't gonna work. He wants to review and compare the missing 205 species in consultation with experts against the criteria of the new law and report on them by 2016. There has really been a very conscious look at that annex. For example, other species require other measures than simply a ban on harmful acts. I have just said that, of course, we are holding our finger on the wrist, but I really must advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 134 by Mr Van Klaveren. He wants to delete the Convention on Petitions to compensate for damage to bones. I have already established in detail that this is really up to the provinces. Mr Geurts and Mr Graus pointed that out to him. The provinces shall fix that amount. Mr Van Klaveren said that I should only act as a driving force, but these are really not the proportions on this point. We just decentralised this. That means we're gonna leave it that way. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Mr Van Klaveren, with the motion in part No. 135 additional species on the list of wild species. If there is a problem with the gray goose, I honestly think that should be addressed through population management rather than by placing it on the list of wild species. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 137 by Mrs Thieme and Mr Smaling, which state that there is an opinion of the Council of State on the amendment to point No. 137 by Mrs Thieme and Mr Smaling, which states that there is an opinion of the Council of State on the amendment to point No. 137 by Mrs Thieme and Mr Smaling, which states that there is an opinion of the Council of State on the amendment to point No. 137 by Mrs Thieme and Mr Smaling. 53 has to come. I suspect that they have now adopted the amendment to item No. 107. They're gonna have to change that for a while. However, I advise against this motion. The legal instruments were assessed by the Council of State in 2012 and the amendment does not change that. Then we have the "alternative zero-position" motion in part no. 138 by Mrs Thieme. In this motion it is precisely asking for it to be released everywhere. I say to her that some provinces will do that to some species. That's their right. But I don't want to say from the realm that it has to be sister or anything. It's really up to the provinces. So I'd like to dissuade this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 139. The rules of the Nature Protection Act bring with them sufficient guarantees for the various hunting. Then I come to the motion on part No. 140 of Mr Thieme and Mr Heerema. This motion is about dealing with the trophy hunt. Members are asking me to come up with a plan this year to tackle the import of hunting trophies, which are called ivory and tiger skins. I'd say "and such," but that's how I understand it. I was going to do something in the spirit, and I think it would be very good if your Chamber were to give its opinion on this. If the Dutch Parliament sends such a signal, I can also use it as an important signal, both at European and international level. I therefore very much welcome this motion and would like to leave it to your Chamber. Then I come to a motion that says with cow letters: "dissuade." Mrs. Ouwehand knows which one I'm talking about. It is the motion in part No. 141, in which she asks me to withdraw this bill, on which I do not know how many hours we have devoted. No, I'm not gonna do that. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 142 by Mrs Ouwehand. She is asking me to look for additional resources. I have, of course, been looking for additional resources at the outset, and I received them at that time. In fact, they were already in the box for this period, thanks to the support of many from this Chamber. I would advise against this motion, because I do not want to make an additional claim in this way. I'm already glad to be able to protect my budget from outside attacks, so to speak. If there's money being distributed someday, I'll be in line. That's how Mrs. Ouwehand knows me. But I don't have the impression we're already in that position. Mrs Ouwehand has tabled a motion on different species of fish. This motion is similar to Mr Smaling's motion. It is asking for these fish species to be protected by law. The bill protects European species from the Habitats Directives and, in addition, some other species of fish. The Natura 2000 regime also protects natural fish species. For that reason, I advise against this motion. I should like to say a few words about Mrs van Veldhoven's motion on certain species of fish. Mrs Ouwehand asked for a motion to prevent the intended tree cover along provincial roads. I'm deceiving that motion. We now have to comply with the Forest Act and it contains a replanting obligation. Only in poplars and willows for planting away doesn't have to. The bill continues these rules. You can't just take everything away without something coming back. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 145 by Mr Dijkgraaf. I have to give a reading pointer and then maybe I'll come a little bit further. The bookmark is important, though. I do not agree with his statement that in assessing licence applications the habitats and species that gave rise to the selection of Natura 2000 have a decisive role to play. I can imagine that these habitats and species are more important than other habitats and species. One problem is that the case law is not entirely clear. I believe that the Chamber and Cabinet have been stinging on this issue for a long time. I do not see any reason, in itself, to return to my assessment of the amendment on the subject. I would like to explain some of the points mentioned in the operative part in my own way. That really needs to be said here. There is also case law whereby we are being dragged into it. The European Commission has, as Mr Dijkgraaf knows, taken a decision before. I'm sure he remembers that it didn't quite go his way back then either. Mr Dijkgraaf asked to ensure that Dutch practice is in line with the case law mentioned above. That seems fair to me. That is where I find him, but then I would like to put the whole matter of observation which precedes it in the light of my explanation of just now. The three categories he mentions are well-liked, but our problem is that they do not always work that way in practice. That's exactly the point. I understand he wants to see it that way, but that's not reality. With this recitation of words and with a lot of explanations, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber on the basis of the request. Perhaps Mr Dijkgraaf is kind enough to add some of those observations. That would make my life a lot less complicated. He'll have to take a look at that. In her motion in part No. 146 asks Mrs Van Veldhoven to involve external experts such as the Court of Auditors and the Planning Bureau for the Environment in the preparation of the monitoring system. I think that's a good idea. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The same applies to the motion on evaluation. I have already said something about Mrs Ouwehand's amendment on that point. I see that as support for policy. So motion 147, judge room. In her motion in part No. 148 asks Mrs Van Veldhoven whether a solution can be found to prevent fishing for endangered species, including outside protected habitats. There are a lot of ways to protect animals and I'm willing to see if that's possible. That is why, and because the request has been made very precisely, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide on this motion. Mr Klein asks me to refrain from decentralisation and so on. That's contrary to the bill I'm defending right now. So it would be some kind of cluster bomb in the bill if the Chamber adopted this. That is perhaps Mr Klein's intention, but not mine. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 152 in which Mr Klein asks me not to allow matters that affect the experience of landscape and nature. That's provincial policy. He has a different opinion on this and thinks it should be done from the Empire, but for that reason I must advise against the motion. Then the motion comes to part no. 153 in the picture, asking for compensation. There is no question of increasing the burden on the municipalities. So there's nothing to compensate. Municipalities are already a point of contact and that does not change substantially with this bill. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. That is what I am doing with the motion in part No. 154, which calls for the eco-ducts to be opened as much as possible. That is not always possible and it is not necessarily up to me to decide. Sometimes that's up to the county. I wouldn't want to settle that nationwide. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 27. It is not easy, because guaranteeing a national network of hiking trails is not the responsibility of my department either. Initiatives have recently been discussed in the Chamber with the Minister of I and M and all kinds of actions have emerged from them. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 155. Unfortunately, I am going to do the same with the motion in part No. 156. I said that I would discuss implementing legislation with civil society organisations. There will undoubtedly also be issues relating to the hunting of Sundays and holidays. However, that is different from the opinion expressed in the motion, namely that hunting should also be possible on Sundays. I don't share that opinion in advance. For that reason, I also advise against this motion. This brings me to the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u174	Thank you very much. In the meantime, the foreign spokesmen have come forward. They are eagerly impatient. I would point out that the Secretary of State is expected to hold a legislative consultation in a small room. Then she can get a little rehab and enjoy herself there for a few hours. Perhaps there are a few more questions. If I am not mistaken, Mr Graus will be the first. If you'd like to be brief and pointy, we'll be able to put an end to it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u175	We just had a meeting at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There it was said that we burden the Ministry too much with motions and questions. Now I've filed a motion, file 28286, piece number. 575, which calls for an import ban on so-called pet trophies. That motion is not supported by the VVD, but has been adopted. Next, the VVD will commit plagiarism together with Mrs Thieme. They are tabling my motion and the Chamber is going to vote on it again. I do not understand why the Secretary of State is not saying that she is working on the Graus motion. She has made a clear commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u176	That's what I'm going to do, because that's what I'm already doing. You know I stopped the passage of ivory earlier this year. Your motion was a good reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u177	Perfect. It's in the books, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u178	This must be taken into account in the opinion given to the Chamber. It's a nonsensical motion. The VVD never supports nonsensical and unnecessary motions, Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u179	I would like to say a few words about the motion on item No. 126 of my hand over the nationwide zero. A colleague from Limburg has also been moved. It's definitely a Limburg problem. I would point out to the Secretary of State that this motion should have had the opinion of Chamber. Otherwise, it will have a problem with the Animal Health Fund Covenant, where Article 23 (1) and (2) states that there will be a plan of action on the maintenance of zero status. This motion should just get judgment room. If she doesn't, she'll have a problem with this covenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u180	I think Mr Geurts got off to a good start. He said it's a Limburg problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u181	No, then you also have a Limburg problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u182	Okay. One little word I would have missed for a moment. Too bad. My point is that this is indeed a matter for the provinces. We are working with the provinces on it, but Mr Geurts is now asking for something to be recorded in general. I know about the province of Limburg, for example. However, I also know from the province of Drenthe that one of the species mentioned by Mr Geurts is really in favour of a different policy. The beauty of decentralizing is precisely that that can be done. It's okay! Let's just do that! Let us not go nationwide on how all the provinces should monitor their zero position if there is also a possibility of differentiation. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u183	There remains the point that Article 23 (1) and (2) of the Animal Health Fund Covenant clearly states that the Cabinet is coming up with a plan of action to organise the maintenance of zero status. So the Secretary of State has a problem on this point just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u184	That's what I see at the time. After all, we will have to talk about this plan of action with each other. I would like to say once again that this is undoubtedly also about potential zoonoses and other issues to be included in this zero-position debate. So I do not want to anticipate that now. My point is that Mr Geurts does so with this motion. It is not that I do not understand the wish behind it or that I do not want to do anything at all, but I do want to stick to the fact that it is a matter for the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u185	I have another question about my motion in part No. 145, or rather it is a proposal following the suggestion of the Secretary of State. We continue to ping-pong a little bit about the interpretation of case law. That's actually crazy, because there is this case law and it has one content. However, I agree with the Secretary of State when she says that the European Commission is dealing with this differently from the European Court of Justice. Could we build the motion in such a way that the government is asked to clarify it, for example by sending a letter to the European Commission? That letter should then ask whether or not this interpretation of the case law is correct. And if that interpretation isn't correct, what about it? I think we should get that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u186	The problem, however, is that, as far as I know, this was done a few years ago. Then there was new case law, which then showed something else. I don't know exactly who started the contribution by reciting something that might be a sermon, but this is a prayer without end. That's true! That ping-pong will continue to happen, because this is, of course, constantly interpreted in that case-law. That's exactly where our problem lies. So I do not know whether it will help us to repeat the exercise that we have carried out quite recently with the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u187	It's been a while. Since then, there has indeed been new case law. The Secretary of State clearly has a completely different interpretation of the case law than part of the Chamber, and perhaps it is a majority of the Chamber. Then there is every reason to get that clarity. The facts must be the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u188	Yes, if Mr Dijkgraaf wants it very badly, I will. But then maybe he can just hold his motion. Sounds like a good deal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u189	I am of the kind that good commitments always say: the content is more important than the form. So I'm holding my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u190	Great. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u191	At the request of Mr Dijkgraaf, I propose his motion (33348, No. 145). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u192	It doesn't want to be so smooth today between the Secretary of State and me. That's too bad. I've got a kind of reverse of Gaal feeling here. Is the Secretary of State that smart or am I that stupid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u193	Do you want an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u194	Even the motions couldn't support her. I think that is a pity, and with a somewhat sad face, I would ask the Secretary of State to reconsider that. In my two motions we are really saying goodbye to protected natural monuments and to many species that are no longer formally protected. I think it would be useful and appropriate to provide a good basis for this. Why are these species no longer formally protected? I therefore ask the Secretary of State to reconsider the judgment on these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u195	Most of the time things are working out very well between Mr Smaling and the undersigned, but this also has to do with requests he is making now. His motions, as well as his amendments, are, of course, partly at the heart of the legislative proposal, especially as regards the number of species that Mr Smaling wants to protect. He is actually saying: I certainly want to stick to that, by means of an amendment, and by means of a detour with a motion. I have said that this has already been thoroughly assessed. More species are protected than the Birds and Habitats Directives actually prescribe. We are already making a national assessment. About 1,000 species are protected in their entirety. Mr Smaling would then add another 200. As far as species protection is concerned, we do not come entirely from Venus and Mars, but Mr Smaling's request is so large and so contrary to what is proposed in the legislative proposal, that I cannot help but dissuade the motion. It is not unwillingness, but in this case really a difference of opinion on what is sensible. In my view, we are both sensible people, so it has to do with a difference of commitment to what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u196	I can only conclude that in the best friendships sometimes there is a very dark period, and that this period as far as the Nature Act is concerned, is true between the Secretary of State and the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u197	I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u198	I don't think we should break up like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u199	No, but that's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u200	Also with regard to my motions, the Secretary of State did not have the generosity I had hoped for. My motion to part No. 154 is about the ecoducts. I do not propose an obligation for the government to open the ecoducts to hikers and cyclists. I ask her to make an effort to consult, for example, with provinces. A lot of ecoducts do not come under the province, but under national responsibility, for example, because they are built under national responsibility. That's why I'm talking about the "yes, unless" principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u201	However, Mr Klein is now asking me to do something for which some of the responsibilities lie elsewhere. Last Monday, we had a whole debate on the liberal role of the provinces in order to remain in your terms. This means that they do not have to be caught up nationwide every time with another request or a new question. It has to be through the States factions. I think Mr Klein will understand that I believe that this should be discussed at that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u202	Briefly concluding, Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u203	I think this is very important, because in this house we encourage the government to take action with the fellow governments, especially where we think it is important to have a different purpose, to promote hiking and cycling, including in nature, where experience is an important element. I think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to do the same for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u204	That experience is important, so I can assure you that I will do so again during a consultation with the provinces. That is only something really different from what Mr Klein is asking for in his motion. Then he'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u205	Good luck with your next WHO, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u206	Well, WHO? That lasts until at least 11:00. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar dank u wel.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u207	You'll be paid for it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u208	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-12.u209	Thank you for being here today. Next Wednesday we will be voting on the legislative proposal, and you will already be congratulated, but that seems a little premature to me on the 321 amendments and on the 28 motions.
