ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. On January 1st of this year, the new Law standardizing top incomes came into force. It is the strictest law of its kind in Europe. That is a good thing. After all, our tax dollars have to go to excellent education, good care, fine living and go to beautiful radio and TV programmes and not to towering salaries of educational directors, care bosses, corporate directors and broadcasting bosses. A minister's salary is the new standard laid down in the law, and that is a fine salary which you can also serve in public or semi-public matters. That's enough to be satisfied with, you'd think. In practice, it turns out that many drivers are. Although it may be the rearguard fights of people who have difficulty getting used to more modest salaries, we are also regularly running too often against things that are not right. Tricks are used or false constructions are rigged for no other purpose than to drag in a higher salary by way of a detour than is provided for in the law. This can be done, for example, by having you hired as a well-paid consultant for a while after your resignation or by joining a suddenly placed holding company above the organisation where you always worked, which according to the rules is just not covered by the law. I have urged the Minister to be vigilant in the legal process. The Chamber is alert on this point, and the Minister, fortunately, too, I see. He is now investigating a number of cases and I look forward to the results. Not only here in The Hague, but certainly also in the rest of the country, there is a great deal of indignation about these towering salaries and the tricks that are sometimes used in them. I regularly speak to people in municipalities and provinces, for example, who also want to promote normal salaries at the top among the organisations with which they do business or to whom they grant subsidies. It's happening in a number of places. The municipality of Rotterdam was in the news about this last week. That is where people have been inspired, so to speak, by the new law on health care institutions. Municipalities like Eindhoven and Venlo have done this before. I have a few questions for the Minister. Can he say anything about the nature and extent of the investigations he's commissioned into possible tricks and false constellations to get out of the law? Does he agree with me that, of course, we should be alert when acting illegally, in other words in violation of the law, but that we should be equally vigilant in matters which may be possible under the letter of the law, but which are undesirable? Is he prepared to deal with such matters, possibly through a legislative amendment? Is the Minister prepared to give the municipalities and provinces a grip if they also want to work on the standards we all advocate in the public and semi-public sectors, for example in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Since January 2013, we have had a law restricting top incomes for public and semi-public drivers, and since then we have also lowered the standard by €50,000, from €230,000 to €000. That law works pretty well. In making the law and the repair legislation that followed, many obvious ways of avoiding or avoiding it have been seared shut. For example, if someone is only 10% top driver and has a different function in the same organisation for the rest of the time, then they are fully covered by the Law on Standards Top Incomes. You can't add that up if you have two functions within an organization. Nevertheless, we are trying to prevent further abuse. Thus, with the knowledge of the Chamber, there will be a General Measure of Management to limit external hire. That AMvB is coming to the Chamber soon. In addition, we are alert to other false constructions. We are currently evaluating the law. Part of the evaluation will be whether we encounter any other false constructions. I am indeed prepared to take the conclusions of the evaluation seriously. If that should lead to legislative changes to stop phony constructions, then, for my part, there is a willingness to do so. Furthermore, Mr Kerstens asked about local directors who want to go beyond the norming of top incomes Act, or who feel inspired by it. I like that in itself. You do, of course, encounter legal conditions and boundaries here and there. I am currently looking at what can happen within the framework conditions with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. We intend to come up with a hand-in-hand to local government for the way in which it could be done. That conversation's going on right now. I hope to come up with that hand-me-down soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness to tackle undesirable constructions and, through legislative changes, to ensure that these structures do not cause people to get too much after all, at least more than we have intended. I'm gonna ask the minister another follow-up question. As has been said, the new standard has been the ministerial salary since 1 January. In health care, but also in housing corporations, a reasonable proportion of the directors would soon have to earn less. How much less depends on, among other things, the size of the care institution or the housing corporation in question. This is expressed in a so-called'stuff', in which the various categories of top incomes in these sectors are expressed as a percentage of a minister's salary. Some time ago, we were able to read that the discussions on this subject, particularly in the care sector, do not always go too far. For example, the Association of Directors of Health cut off the conversations a while ago because, in my words, she did not get what she wanted. Can the Minister reassure me, and many with me, by confirming that such an attitude is being taken out of hand, that there will be no more talk of it and that the staff in the care and housing sector, which will be much lower than a minister's salary, will be there in due course and in time, so that they can be implemented on 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	I can confirm that. Let me add that I will come up with a letter within a month in which I will tell you what the staff will be. The colleagues of VWS and W and R are consulting for care and housing corporations. After that consultation, we will establish the rules. If partners didn't show up for that consultation, that's their choice, but the truffles are nevertheless determined. They will be in the Official Journal in November and will enter in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	It's not words, it's deeds. The Rotterdam approach. In Rotterdam people say: if drivers continue to grab care, then we will simply cut the relevant organisations off on their subsidies. Does the Minister agree that this is a good approach? Should other municipalities and organisations follow this example? If we set a public income standard in politics and then rulers come up with all kinds of constructions, all kinds of tricks, to get out of them and still keep digging, then these drivers disqualify themselves in our eyes. These people don't belong in the public sector. Does the Minister agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	These are in fact variations to Mr Kerstens' question, which I have just answered. If there is reason to believe that there are tricks, evasion or avoidance, which may be possible under the law, then I think that this is a reason to consider whether the law should be amended on the basis of the evaluation. I have already said that I find initiatives in this area of local government sympathetic. I would like to take part in the discussion on how this is possible, within the limits of the law and existing case law. As Mr Van Raak may know, there has already been a first case before the courts. That played in the municipality of Eindhoven. That's where they turned out to be running against borders. Those boundaries are a given, but I'd like to think with what they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	I do not think the answer to the first question was entirely in line with what the question was. Mr Van Raak asked whether the Minister felt that people would disqualify themselves if they were able to raise more than they could get top incomes under the Law on Standards. What is the Minister's opinion on such directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	I actually think that as guardian of the law, I can be proud of a law that does not even need that moral judgment anymore, because we simply regulate it legally where we find it undesirable. Of course, the law is meant to bring down the top incomes. The law does that effectively. I want to stay a little away from it, too. There are even people who earned more than a minister's salary. I don't want to call them all diggers. They often just got a job, like their predecessor, and in the same scale as their predecessor. We all think only that this should be done, and we have also established by law that it must now be brought down very quickly. I'm glad this is taken care of. I'm for that, too. That's how we're gonna do it. For that, I don't need to give a personal qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
