ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery. I would particularly like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Fourteen speakers have spoken for this debate. We use four minutes of speaking time per speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President. Thank you for your patience, which allowed us to read everything properly before we started this debate. Let me begin by admitting that I rarely read a cabinet letter about which such a large part of the Netherlands agreed in his judgment. In fact, the whole of the Netherlands has responded unanimously to this agreement: not effective, not humane and, above all, a political solution with which the coalition has been temporarily saved. The VVD gets the tough language, the PvdA gets the impossibility of execution. Operation accomplished, patient on the street! It is an embarrassing compromise that temporarily helps two parties out of the fire, but increases the problems in the country. The uncertainty and incomprehension are only increased by the fact that the Labour Party and the VVD give a completely different explanation of what has been agreed. So PvdA leader Samsom says on TV that no one really needs to sleep under the bridge. At the same time, VVD leader Zijlstra says that those who do not cooperate on return will be thrown out. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: who is speaking the truth here? A look at both parties' websites also says enough. The Labour Party writes about a new plan for six reception locations, but the VVD writes about five locations as annex of the expansion center in Ter Apel. Voila! According to the Labour Party, municipalities can always provide emergency care, but according to the VVD all reception conditions are closed. Who else can make sense of it? The conclusion is clear: there is an agreement, but no agreement. There are paper arrangements, but no practical solutions. As divided as the coalition parties explain the answer, so clear is the cabinet letter itself. Humanity is not the starting point for the cabinet. In fact, municipalities that want to provide shelter for people living on the streets for humanitarian reasons are financially punished. Anyone who doesn't cooperate with his own eviction will fly out of the shelter. There is no place for him, except under a bridge or in the porch of the people sitting at home following this debate. There's not a word of Spanish. The Labour Party can jump high or low, but the Cabinet letter is clear. What the Labour Party calls shelter is a pre-departure phase for the Cabinet. The Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten also explains the cabinet letter in this way. "Municipals find it... undesirable that people live on the streets and do not want homelessness. We do not find that point of departure in the letter," says the Association of Dutch Municipalities. And indeed, in his letter, the cabinet only speaks of departure. Not a word about humanity, not a solution for people who don't leave and not a single hand-off to municipalities that have to deal with more people wandering the streets. We saw this again yesterday during the hearing with the mayors. They said, "We continue to catch people." The mayor of Rotterdam even said: even if I have to pick them off the streets myself! What's the Prime Minister's reaction to this? If there is any evidence from this morning's answers, it is that the Empire and the municipalities are opposite each other and that what the Labour Party calls into the media is not a cabinet policy. It is unacceptable that we are talking today about a compromise which is explained completely differently by coalition parties. The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister will therefore have to give the much-needed clarity. Does the Prime Minister consider it conceivable that, as a result of this cabinet policy, asylum seekers who have been tried end up in the streets? How does the Prime Minister respond to statements by the UN rapporteur, who claims that this agreement is a great disgrace to the Netherlands? How many weeks can asylum seekers who have been processed go to a new departure centre? Let us be clear that under no circumstances do we throw people into the streets to sleep in doors or under bridges. In our rich country, no one has to sleep on the streets or eat out of a trash can, put out or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr Klein has a question for you, Mr Roemer. He had to come a long way; I didn't immediately notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	Sometimes you have to come a long way to get the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	It's like the cabinet!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	Yeah, that's true. Mr Roemer concluded by saying that, as far as the SP is concerned, no one has to go on the streets. However, in view of the statements made by Mr Roemer in the last period, he felt that someone had to meet certain requirements, such as work on return. We're talking about strangers sitting at the end of the ride. We told each other about them that it was over at some point. What does Mr. Roemer do? What solution does the SP actually offer to actually solve this problem? Mr Roemer makes a lot of comments, but what does he do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	I understand from your question that you have not been able to follow everything. We have said quite clearly: helping to find a solution. That's a whole different thing. You may know as well as we do that many people with the stamp "proced" have many other problems. For example, they cannot all go back. So you have to work on a solution. That could be a medical solution. It may also be the start of a follow-up procedure to which they are entitled. There may be several solutions. What we want is an own-initiative paper that you have received. What we want is to carry out a motion which was supported by a majority of the House, the Voordewind motion. That motion was passed here for two or three weeks. That's exactly what it says. There's not a word of Spanish in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	I read that. It is also right that we keep looking for the solution. But if people no longer cooperate with the solution and if there is no solution, what will you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	Let us be clear that if people can go back and have to go back because they are done, we too believe that those people should go back. We just have arrangements for that, too. There is no misunderstanding about that, but for the most part this large group consists of people who, for whatever reason, cannot go back. In the letter from the cabinet, those people are: exit, live on the street, get illegal on the street and lie under a bridge. No way! In a rich country like the Netherlands, no one lies under a bridge and we do not eat out of a garbage can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	With all due respect, Mr Roemer is not telling the truth. He's talking about people who can't go back. Does Mr Roemer know that people who wish to contribute to their return are already being offered shelter by default? The people we're talking about right now are people who don't want to cooperate on their return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	I know there are all kinds of variants. All the people who are here have their own story and their own experience. Those are all people, Mr Fritsma. And yes, an individual approach per person fits in with that. Those who can go back because they have searched for something else here and have not found, who have gone out and can go back, simply go back, including as far as we are concerned. Mr Fritsma, it is a pity that you are putting all these people on the same footing and refusing to see that many of these people cannot return for various reasons. Then you have to find individual solutions. For example, the Voordewind motion mentions the Paulus Church method. That motion had a majority in this Chamber. We still support that motion. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet is simply carrying out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	Again, bullshit! The question whether or not someone can return to the country of origin is taken into account by the IND and the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	Even D66 judges often come to the conclusion: you can go back. People just fucking do that. So you're gonna let these people ignore the judge's ruling. You're right about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	... with the aim of allowing as much as possible to stay executed in the Netherlands. I hope that one day the SP will realise that this is not in the interest of the ordinary man and woman in the Netherlands, because they are already paying too much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Fritsma, you must look at all these individual cases. Then you come to the conclusion that you are not right, that there are things where mistakes are made and people are entitled to follow-up proceedings and that there are people who have been put on the first plane and sent back linea recta. We are talking about individual matters and that is why you have to look at them individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr Pechtold made a comment on the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u19	It often happens in the media, but I do not think it is appropriate for the PVV in this Chamber to accuse the judiciary in this country, which is independent, of political colour and thus political direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u20	Of which note, with which this is recorded in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. Our borders are wide open. Immigration and asylum records are being broken and it is only getting worse. In Libya, as many as 1 million migrants are now ready to move in this direction. The elite want to bring them all in. They are not stopped and can come to the Netherlands uncontrolled. After an application for asylum, foreigners are received here by default, no matter how many people come. As long as we continue with this madness, there is no way we can put things in order. Let's get that up front. Meanwhile, the cabinet is getting fewer and fewer illegal immigrants out of the country. In fact, asylum seekers who have been processed, illegal aliens are now going to get formal bed, bath and bread and, in fact, even more than that. Mr Samsom explained this as follows on Radio 1: "As soon as the new facilities are in place, everyone can, even if you do not want to work on return, bed, bath and bread and something more. Just guidance, peace and space." This is disgusting in one word. Illegals who ignore their obligation to leave, who disregard court rulings and simply refuse to comply with the rules are now offered bed, bath and bread as well as rest and space. Again, Mr Samsom's explanatory statement, this time at Nieuwsuur: "We are not asking people questions here. They don't have to cooperate on leaving. They get shelter, rest and space." Is this how we're gonna deal with anyone who doesn't follow the rules from now on? Does anyone who doesn't do what the judge says gets no questions from now on, but does receive shelter, rest and space from this cabinet? Or does this only apply to illegals? Are they the only ones above the law? I'd like some clarity on this. The asylum industry and all the left-wing wanderers that the Netherlands would rather give away yesterday than today have won again and the cowardly VVD signs for that. This party recently called the illegal shelter the stay, barrier and reward scheme, but now introduces it itself. Such weak knees showed the VVD even when a line was made by the criminalization of illegality, when introducing a new general pardon scheme and so on. The VVD simply makes itself responsible for the softest asylum policy ever. Even fewer illegals will leave the Netherlands, now that it has been proven that you will not be punished here but rewarded if you do not follow the rules. By the way, the chaos surrounding the illegal shelter is now complete. For example, the municipalities have already indicated that they will continue with the existing illegal shelter. Conclusion: thanks to the VVD there will not only be new, official illegal shelters, which is of course bad enough already, but also much more illegal shelters, because the old shelters remain alongside the new shelters. Mr Zijlstra has just been paged by the PvdA. He's been fooled like an amateur. The PVV finds it abominable that priority should be given to illegal immigrants instead of to our own elders. For our own elderly people there is not even a bed in nursing homes, because those care homes are closed down. There is no bath for our elderly, because they are often showered once a week in health care institutions. For our own elderly, there is hardly any bread, because 20% of the elderly in nursing and nursing homes are malnourished. How on earth can you offer money and shelter to people who are not even allowed to be here and who do not cooperate in returning to the country of origin? Because once again, it's about that category. Those who do participate in departure are already receiving standard reception from the state. My appeal to the cabinet is simple. Dismiss this terrible plan for illegal shelter. Instead, pick up illegals and put them on the plane as soon as possible towards the country of origin. I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. What kind of agreement is there for this today? What's the deal? Is there a deal? After nine days of fighting, closed doors, back and forth service cars and inappropriate comparisons with Holleeder, I expected clarity for municipalities but especially for people. But the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, and the group chairmen of VVD and Labour Party, made a surrealistic display of it at the presentation of the agreement. One chord but two separate worlds. And so my group is struggling with the question of what the result is. Is there any clarity? No. There's been unrest among mayors from VVD to PvdA. There is strong criticism from VNG to UN. There is confusion among the coalition parties who explain agreements completely differently. It's obvious to my party. Anyone who is finished must return to the country of origin. However, where this is not possible, the municipalities must have the space to organise basic care. I'm gonna walk by a couple of points. It is necessary to have specific points, because I sometimes feel more like an accountant who has to go through all the books in a minute rather than a parliamentarians who should check the broad lines here. First of all, the clear statement of the European Social Rights Committee (ESRB). The Netherlands violates the European Social Charter (ESC) by not providing basic necessities, they say. This was followed, as I say to the cabinet, by the ambiguous resolution of the Committee of Ministers. But, as I add, it was negotiated by our own Foreign Minister. This resolution also does not affect the legal analysis of the same ESRB. Why doesn't the cabinet take that statement seriously and ignore it? The reception of displaced asylum seekers is now limited to five cities and Ter Apel. Mayors are protesting this massively. Slightly more than five would work out, said a cynical PvdA mayor Aboutaleb at the hearing yesterday. Why did they choose five anyway? And why these five? Does everyone in the North Netherlands have to go to Utrecht now, for example? One of the answers this morning: the cabinet insists that this is a factual spread across the Netherlands. I don't understand. I'd like to get a response from the Minister of Social Affairs, an old local director. The asylum seeker may remain in this location for a limited number of weeks. How long exactly is that? And can it also, as the PvdA put it Tuesday in the Rotterdam Paulus Church, be all weeks of the year? Or should I read a "limited number of weeks" more proverbial? Is legal guidance also being addressed in these reception locations? After all, this approach is also successfully used in the Paulus Church. I also like to get a reaction to this. What does this "more effective return policy" look like? What new measures are being taken which apparently were not taken under Secretary of State Teeven, Minister Leers and Minister Verdonk? Can the cabinet send us a concrete list by hand? I understand that these locations only get state funding if they're "successful." When is a location successful? How many returners? I'd like to get a concrete number. Or is this also just proverbial and, as I read in the answers, is it true that the Empire now considers itself financially responsible? After a limited number of weeks, the asylum seeker must state that he is willing to leave, but when does the applicant meet the criteria for returning to the asylum seeker? What authority makes this assessment? If there is no willingness to return, the asylum seeker will be removed from the facility, or simply thrown out. Then the city gets to fix it again. It'll be back to square one. If a municipality is going to catch people again, there will be a fine. What does the penalty system look like? How much is the fine? Is that by process? The budget for integration is mentioned in the letter as an example. Is this the only penalty option or are there more? I would ask the Minister for Social Affairs to do the same. Municipalities are autonomous in terms of their free resources. Is the cabinet going to file a law banning the provision of shelter? When can we expect it? How does the detention ban relate to the power of the mayor to maintain public order? And I'm almost there, Mr President. How does this relate to duty of care? This is a long line of questions. With every pronunciation of a PvdAer or VVDer it becomes longer. I expect clear answers today. It is not possible to refer only to the administrative agreement. Questions 10, 11, 14, 15, 18, 19, 25, 26, 28, 30, 31 and 32 refer to the administrative agreement. There's an agreement or there's no agreement. In any case, there is now a vague compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u23	"For I was hungry, and you fed me; I was thirsty, and you gave me to drink; I was a stranger, and you gave me shelter." Mr. Chairman. These words are in the Bible, to be exact in Matthew 25, verse 35. It is the words that Jesus himself has spoken and from which we, as the Christian Union, seek wisdom in our search for how to deal with asylum seekers, even if they are put to good use. It is also words that inspire churches and individuals to be there for people we encounter in our villages and cities. We are discussing today the agreement between the VVD and the Labour Party on bed, bath and bread last week. It is a hard-won agreement, in the words of Minister Asscher. I ask him to explain this today. It took a nine-day campaign of the VVD and the Labour Party to reach this agreement. It's embarrassing, even when you're looking around at the great distress in the world that we're talking about. It is shameful, even when you see the outcome of the negotiations that the parties have finally come out with. It has become a political agreement, primarily designed to keep the cabinet up and running. However, it is not a solution to the brutal problem of asylum seekers who have been persecuted, as was also apparent from yesterday's hearing from the overwhelming criticism of the mayors, among others, who know, like no other, what that reality looks like. The agreement does not, as is clear to us, comply with the Charter and the ruling made by the European Social Rights Committee on the basis of it on Dutch policy. It is a mystery to us, even after the reply, where the cabinet comes from the wisdom that foreigners without lawful residence do not fall within the scope of the Charter. The agreement also does not comply with the recently adopted Voordewind/Voortman motion, in which the cabinet is called upon to take the approach of the Paulus Church as a starting point for policy. In the Paulus Church, the provision of bed, bath and bread is not linked to eviction or to a period of several weeks, but is personally sought for a solution. This approach never puts people out on the street, as it turned out yesterday during the hearing. There's no mention of this motion in the cabinet letter. The reception is also not minimized in this motion to about five municipalities. I ask the cabinet to accept that in the first term. The agreement also does not conform to the way we are used to dealing with municipalities. Under threat of a fine, the cabinet wants to conclude an administrative agreement with them. What's with the knife on the negotiating table? That's not how we deal with our fellow governments, is it? And are churches and individuals going to get a mercy ticket too? The agreement is based on a paper reality and will, with the threat of VBL's, freedom-limiting locations such as Ter Apel, even counterwork for the intended purpose, namely: carefully work on returning to the country of origin and, if that is not possible, on another solution. Is the cabinet aware of that? Apart from exegeses on concluded treaties and adopted motions, in the opinion of my group, this agreement also and above all does not meet the standard of humanity. This agreement aims to deprive people of basic living conditions such as bed, bath and bread and send them out into the streets. In our view, this is crossing a line of principle, especially now that we know from experience that a comprehensive asylum policy is still not a reality in our country. It never will be, I'm afraid. The Christian Union Group therefore rejects this agreement. On behalf of my group, I call on the cabinet and the coalition to come to their senses. Into the paper shredder with this chord. Go back to the negotiating table and come back as soon as possible with an arrangement that is in line with the direction that a majority of the House of Representatives, including the Labour Party, has recently pointed out to you and is supported by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u24	I give the floor to Mrs Thieme, who starts with a general preliminary remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u25	Yes, Mr President, unfortunately I have to leave the sitting early because I have a debate on TTIP after this. Apologies for that, but my colleague will of course listen to the answers of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u26	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. For nine days, PvdA and VVD argued about the most basic care a civilized society can offer to people, to refugees. Give us this day our daily bed, bath and bread, the refugees ask. The PvdA would like to, but they don't dare. Because when you rule with the VVD, it's soon about the sucking effect that might come from that. So for days, nights, the question of whether the bath should be half-full or half-empty was negotiated. Or was it about far from our bed problems? Or over a spread bed for processed asylum seekers who are best compared to Holleeder? If you hadn't heard it, you wouldn't believe that the group leader of the largest government party in this country could make such comparisons. But really, there's nothing to be surprised about anymore. This is a debate of fear and fear reduction. One party, fearing electoral competition on the right, dares not provide refugees with basic basic services. The other party does not dare to push the idea of solidarity completely overboard, for fear of electoral competition on the left. See there the total powerlessness of a coalition of water and fire. There is not so much a sucking effect, but above all a pushing effect. Hunger, drought and climate change, resulting in conflicts and war, cause people to drift massively. We can't see hunger as a far-from-our-board problem. We cannot see war in the Middle East as a far-from-our-fuel tank problem. We cannot see the drowning of refugees as a remote-from-our-bath problem. Not the people who flee home and fireplace are the lucky ones, but the people who drill far from home to oil, extract green beans from poor countries where there is drought or rainforests to grow cattle feed. Those are the lucky ones. These are our lucky seekers, who make us consume as if we had four globes at our disposal. Every schoolchild knows that's a very naive thought. It is a mistake to complain about people asking for bed, bath and bread as long as we do not want to face the fact that our prosperity is based on the shoulders of the weakest and on the supplies of future generations. Asylum regulations are never waterproof, but the simplistic view that an asylum seeker is simply forced to return home, even if that house does not exist, even if that house is in a fireplace of war, hunger and oppression, even if we ourselves play a role in the origin of those hungers and wars, is blatantly shameful. There are refugees who live without ID because their country has been in complete chaos for years and there is no government; people who were born during the war and therefore have no birth certificate. Those refugees can't go back at all. The question is whether these people from this cabinet will receive basic emergency aid. Municipalities find the agreement unworkable and undesirable. In fact, they say that this agreement will speed up the disappearance of asylum seekers into illegality. I'd like a response from the cabinet on this. The problem of asylum is closely linked to our foreign policy. That was also said yesterday during the hearing with the aid organisations, as well as the fact that we behave like lucky seekers in other countries and consume more than the earth can handle. I mentioned it: food scarcity, drought and deforestation cause conflicts, wars and refugee flows. Let us take our role seriously in destabilizing the world and the climate, which deserves a debate in itself. In this context, I also believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. Over a week, nine days, the crisis conference lasted. It wasn't about next year's budget, it wasn't about the numerous drowned refugees in the Mediterranean and it wasn't about the new tax system. No, there was a need for crisis consultations on whether we should still deal with homeless asylum seekers in this country. As a result of this crisis consultation, we now have two agreements: the agreement of VVD Prime Minister Rutte and the agreement of PvdA Deputy Prime Minister Asscher. In the agreement of VVD Prime Minister Rutte, provision in the bed-bath-bread scheme is limited to a number of weeks, people have to cooperate in their expulsion or else leave the shelter and get a fine from municipalities that still offer bed-bath-bread. In the latter, the Prime Minister mentioned "the uncomfortable side of the agreement." That raised the question of where the cozy side of the agreement would be. Then there is the PvdA Deputy Prime Minister Asscher's agreement. This agreement does not lay down conditions for reception, allows municipalities offering bed-bath bread to continue to receive funding from the Empire until the decision of the Council of State, and mayors to always organise emergency care in the context of their public policy protection powers. The fact that these two agreements are presented as one agreement does not incomprehensible to many people, I would say confusion, misunderstanding and criticism. My group also has many questions. I'll give you three. One: how does the agreement relate to the duty of care of municipalities and the responsibility for public order? No homeless on the street. "No one sleeps under a bridge in Rotterdam," Mayor Aboutaleb said yesterday. Two: how does the cabinet view that careful guidance for return takes more than three to six months than a few weeks? What exactly is "a certain number of weeks"? Could that also be a year, or are you standing if you don't want to cooperate after a few weeks back on the street? Three: how does the agreement relate to the Voordewind/Voortman motion adopted on the approach in the Pauluskerk as an example for shelter elsewhere? The cabinet will have noticed that this approach is very successful, also when it comes to ultimately realising their return. In the letter from Secretary of State Dijkhoff we can read that the most important part of the agreement will only be implemented after the Council of State's ruling in June. That verdict could destroy the entire agreement. Can the Prime Minister state what the two coalition agreements are worth when the Council of State decides that no conditions should be attached to bed-bath bread and that it should not be temporary in nature? Is the coalition going to be in crisis management again? Neither the VVD agreement nor the PvdA agreement tackles the cause of the problem of homeless foreigners. People often cannot return without their fault, for example because the country of origin does not cooperate. The rules for obtaining a licence on the basis of the external debt policy are bureaucratic and demanding. Is the Cabinet prepared to do anything about this policy of innocence? There's no bed-bath-bread chord at all. It is difficult to speak of an agreement when one party says 'if you do not cooperate in expulsion, you will be on the street after a few weeks', while the other says 'you are always entitled to humanitarian shelter'. I don't call that an agreement. It has to be different, it has to be over and it has to be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. Again the VVD bows before the Labour Party. Again the VVD bows to the socialists. The VVD breaks promise on promise. The VVD is cheating on its own voters. VVD members Hans Wiegel and Frits Bolkestein crack the VVD. That is absolutely right. The VVD has completely lost track. The VVD established an immigration record. Never before have so many immigrants come to our country: 181,000. That's a city the size of Breda, coincidentally the home of the Secretary of State. Last year, 30,000 asylum seekers came to our country. Thanks to the VVD, asylum seekers can now formally go to various reception centres, from Amsterdam to Eindhoven. The suction action remains intact. While, of course, the only place for bed, bath and bread for processed asylum seekers should be the temporary agency centre in Ter Apel. We are talking about people who, according to the law, are no longer allowed to be here. These are people who have been repeatedly rejected by an independent judge. So these people have to leave. That's how it works in a rule of law. I would like to receive a response from the cabinet. The VVD therefore bows to the Labour Party, while the solution is not so difficult. Bet only on shelter in the region. Maintain the law. Shut down all centers except Ter Apel. No more general pardons. Stop funding the asylum industry. However, the VVD has only one ambition: to do the ride at all costs, even at the expense of its own voters and the country. Fortunately, there is now a right-wing alternative to the VVD. That alternative is called Voor Nederland, VNL. A third of the VVD voters see us as an asset to national politics and that is good news for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. Ever since the introduction of the current Alien Law, it has been the end of the alien chain, the return, the most complicated problem. Successive Cabinets have struggled with this issue. Real return of outlawed foreigners requires a great deal of effort. It requires conviction and, where necessary, a firm hand. But no cabinet, compared to all the previous cabinets, has made it as furious as this cabinet. Nine days the Netherlands witnessed a crisis in the Rutte II cabinet; an extremely embarrassing display. Soon it wasn't about bed, bath and bread at all. Everyone could see that in the end it was just about two political parties who had lost the state elections and wanted to polish their own blazing for their supporters. Soon everyone had a fight with everyone. The VVD had a fight with the PvdA. Diederik Samsom had an argument with Mark Rutte, right up to the kitchen. Mark Rutte, in turn, had an argument with Halbe Zijlstra. Rutte II is degenerate in a fighting cabinet. How is it possible that Prime Minister Rutte didn't see this banana peel coming? The cabinet itself decided at the start to make additional and substantial savings on the foreign chain, including the Return & Departure Service. Remember that we are only at the beginning of the cuts on this service. Retrieval efforts are decreasing instead of increasing. Now I come to the specific cause of the crisis, namely the resolution of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The cabinet was completely robbed, but the Netherlands was represented on that Committee of Ministers through Minister Koenders. So the cabinet didn't just agree to that text? If you agree to a text, don't you have to know what you agree to instead of arguing about it afterwards? And then there's the final piece. On 22 April the Netherlands witnessed a press conference with two totally contradictory stories by Mark Rutte and Lodewijk Asscher. They didn't even keep up the appearance of unity of cabinet policy. Rutte said the emergency shelter is closing and we're gonna keep it. Asscher said, we will continue to finance everything until the Council of State gives a ruling and the mayor can always continue to provide emergency care. The gap became even greater when the group chairmen took the floor. Diederik Samsom said, The congregation may decide; no one sleeps with me under a bridge. Halbe Zijlstra then said: For those who do not cooperate there are no provisions; all shelter is closed. Both statements at the same time cannot be true. This is fooling the Netherlands. We can only draw one conclusion. This is a two-faced compromise of a two-faced cabinet. In that Mark Rutte is no longer the prime minister and first man, but simply the toy of panic in his own party after the elections for the Provincial States. Mr President, I think the Prime Minister would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u31	Please continue, Mr Van Haersma Buma, because you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mark Rutte isn't the first man anymore. In December, the cabinet almost stumbled on the abolition of the free choice of doctors. I said the concrete rot struck. In the meantime, we have to note that the rot has penetrated into the foundations. My colleagues have already asked many questions and some colleagues have also asked written questions. First of all, let me express my great appreciation to the officials. Politicians make an impossible agreement, but officials are allowed to come up with answers in the middle of the night and they have done so. There's still a few questions left that I'll be walking by soon. Why has the cabinet been in such a hurry after the Council of Europe? After all, there will be statements from the Council of State and the Central Appeals Board which may be able to give a direction to the way in which it should now proceed. Why didn't the cabinet wait for those statements? If these statements were to be made, could that mean that the agreement would be changed again? Is the cabinet willing to simply reverse all the cuts on, for example, the Return & Departure Service in order to make a contribution to return? My last question concerns the following. There's been a conversation with the mayors of a number of cities. That was a somewhat shady meeting on a night no one was supposed to know about. What was done there? Have the mayors been notified? Have they been informed of what has been done? Or did the mayors there say that they thought it was a good system and that they agreed to it? I'd like to wait for those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u33	Those are legitimate questions. I think Mr Van Haersma Buma has rightly pointed the finger at the various messages that have come from both the cabinet and the coalition. I am curious about the position of the CDA itself on this issue. The CDA does not find this agreement very much either, but at the time the CDA voted against the motion to take the approach of the Paulus Church as a starting point. By the way, there was a majority in the Chamber for that motion. What is the CDA's approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u34	It was a surprise to us that the Christian Union agreed to this, because what the Paulus Church is doing can happen in Rotterdam. The question is whether the Lower House should then dictate nationally how municipalities should do this. There are different responsibilities and that is why it does not occur to us to say as a Empire: this is the example, take over. We certainly did not vote in favour of this. I also recognise that the motion has been adopted and that it would be appropriate for a cabinet to implement it. But that's another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u35	The question remains, however, what approach does the CDA intend to take when it comes to the reckless problem of asylum seekers who have been tried and who have to go back, but who are unable to go back in part. We know the story. How does Mr Buma view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u36	Let me say first of all that the CDA thinks perhaps stronger than the Christian Union that if the judge has given a ruling, it is a question of justice that one has to go back. Justice is one of the principles that prevail. We all see that municipalities have been providing shelter for years. The big problem of this cabinet in the past has also been tried by the Balkenende-IV cabinet, but it did not work because municipalities continue to provide shelter. The Empire must do its job and municipalities must do it as little as possible to help the Empire with that expulsion. But I see a mayor who claims to continue to provide shelter and make his own municipal consideration. They're all saying it: we're moving on! You can then sit in the Tower, you can shake "no" and you can walk from the Tower to Social Affairs, but the closing of all shelters is just not gonna work out this cabinet. That is why the agreement is such an incredibly empty shell. I am giving Mr Slob a note, but I am now more of a chess player with the Prime Minister who agrees with him that this agreement is not going to work. Acknowledge as a government that you have to do much more than this cabinet and realize that there is a raffle edge somewhere. There must be expulsion and if a municipality cannot do so, there is a limited reception, but that must be emergency care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u37	I hear Mr Buma saying that the Prime Minister would agree with me. Then we will soon finish the debate: this agreement can then be in the shredder of paper, and we will proceed, on the basis of the approach advocated by the Paulus Church, not as a blueprint, but as a method that is effective, at least more effective than what the Empire has done. I understand correctly, Madam President. We too are in favour of detachment if we have to, but sometimes we can't. I hear Mr Buma say: just give the municipalities the freedom, give them the space to come up with a good approach, but that is something different from what the cabinet stands for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u38	Where the most precisely the line of the CDA is, is the motion-screw. Mr Schouw is quite happy that I mention him, and that is in itself special. It's a November 2014 motion. More than in Mr Voordewind's motion, that motion states what we mean. There are rows of private initiatives for shelter. I am not saying that we should all do that, but these initiatives are just in the municipalities. That awareness is in the motion and we have supported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. Free-minded politics means choosing the free man, regardless of his formal status. Strangers are people. People who have been processed and who no longer have residence status are being received. Their return needs work. It is also about an individual assessment, in which a bed-bath bread supply for the liberal party remains a basic provision. I have two questions for the cabinet. Firstly, can the cabinet explain in this morning's letter why there are so few out-of-debt permits in relation to the number of applications? Secondly, government policy is rightly based on decentralisation with its own municipal responsibilities. How does the penalty discount for municipal choices to take care of care itself fit into this policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. Merciful and just: according to the SGP, foreign policy must be implemented. No one who has been brought to justice is uncompassionate. Anyone who has gone through the process of providing shelter for a long time is unjust. That is an undermining of the rule of law. As a Christian party, we stand for innancy for people in need. We must love the stranger. This means that we will never say to citizens: look the other way if you find someone homeless on the street. The government is in the service of justice. This also means that it is up to the government to set limits on admission to the Netherlands, to make an authoritative distinction between those who need to be offered innkeepership here and those to whom we must ultimately say: you cannot and must not stay here. In fact, that is a subject on which, with all the political fireworks you can make around it, there is a fairly broad consensus. Yes, we have a restrictive policy in this country. Yes, we will also have to recognise in our care that government responsibility is limited. However, the most reckless thing we are facing now is the question of how to deal with the difficult situations in which people do not want to go back because they really think they cannot go back, but about which court rulings say, where files are set up and weighted: we think you should go back. That is the most repulsive problem, for which no one here can find a simple solution. Looking at the agreement before us, we think it is a serious step to solve the problem of reception, but of course the Columbus egg is not; it also remains open. Crucial is administrative support. How does the Cabinet estimate that? Is it not very important that even municipalities that are practically confronted with the possible open ends of the policy have a basis for the approach taken by the Empire? The proposal to introduce a pre-stage is a valuable addition. It offers more room for people to cooperate without the need for care being at stake. Only, the number of locations and their distribution across the country are somewhat limited and Randstadelijk. Why hardly any locations in the north, east and south of the country? Does this not create unnecessary red tape, such as driving long runs back and forth? Does this not unduly restrict successful regional facilities? Isn't the pressure on those five cities being unjustly increased? We also lack clarity about providing acute care in crisis situations. The letter suggests that municipalities are no longer allowed to provide shelter at all. We don't think that's wise. Moreover, the Central Board of Appeal has provided that municipalities may provide social services as long as the State has no specific provision. How does the Cabinet react to that? Is it not also desirable to have a clear legal framework for this, as European committees have pointed out? I'm rounding up. The SGP stands for mercy to the stranger and for just policy. A burning heart for refugees who fear for their lives, but merciful is not pitiful. Weekly runs away from the consequences when a careful process leads to difficult results. He who makes his heart speak must also continue to use his mind. That's fair and just. This ultimately serves the cause of the refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. In this whole debate on bed, bath and bread we miss the most important b, namely the b of civilization. With the most important b, it's very sad. Because why is the cabinet so hysterical when it comes to these vulnerable people? Let us be influenced by Wilders and co-consorts? The fact that the VVD was infected with the Wilders virus was known, but that the Prime Minister now seems to be suffering from it, is a second. Just an international comparison for the right context. In the Netherlands, we are talking about some 30,000 asylum seekers on an annual basis, some of whom are being processed. We are talking about millions of people worldwide: Pakistan 1.6 million, Lebanon 1.5 million, Turkey 1.2 million. The key question to the Prime Minister: why is the Netherlands so difficult about its modest international contribution? I would almost like to say to the gentlemen in box K: stop and think for a moment, gentlemen. In this discussion there is a double morale. The rich West is throwing the borders wide open so that we can take advantage of cheap raw materials, but for the people the borders are tight. And if anyone slips in, they have to go right back. That is a very self-centered approach to globalisation. If the West continues to rob poor countries with multinationals, vulnerable people will come here. On the way they can drown in the Mediterranean and we all feel very sorry for that. Once they have reached the Netherlands, they will find a country where there is a debate about bed, bath and bread. What a civilization! As a kind of boa constrictor, the VVD tries to push the latest social democratic ideals out of the PvdA, and the party succeeds nicely. Lodewijk Asscher, excuse me, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment looks powerlessly at how good cop Rutte and bad cop Zijlstra are doing. Where is the irresistible belief that every human being is equal? Where is the right to a decent existence for everyone? What a civilization! I will conclude with an appeal to the Prime Minister. Come out of the Tower and stop listening to Beethoven's piano concerts while people in your country have no roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u42	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u43	Get some sleep under a bridge. Do that in Utrecht, Arnhem or Nijmegen, but preferably in Rotterdam, because then you still have a chance that Mayor Aboutaleb will pick you up and offer you a bed-bath bread supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u44	Madam President. Like Mrs Thieme, I will not be able to fully attend this debate in connection with meetings elsewhere, but my staff follow it closely. This cabinet has spent nine days trying to do the impossible: to unite two opposing positions on the reception of those who have been tried in a compromise. The result is questionable. According to Hans Wiegel, it's the gossip. The cabinet is saved, but a solution? Whoa, whoa, whoa, There is now a rattling compromise with open ends, a compromise that lacks broad public support and is legally difficult or unsustainable. It is also a compromise with which the VVD and the Labour Party, organisations and municipalities look at it very differently. And now the Council of State can point the way where the cabinet can't. For 50PLUS, it is essential that people who have gone through the normal course of justice and are definitely not granted a residence permit should simply leave. Everything has to be focused on that. We therefore need to work harder on successful return. The VVD group chairman says that reception conditions outside the five major cities and Ter Apel are simply closing. The PvdA group chairman says that other cities can always offer a form of shelter. That seems to be quite a difference of opinion. Can the cabinet explain to me and to the others who asked for it, which of the two, the VVD or the PvdA, is right? It's either one or the other. It is also unclear how long proceedings have been allowed to stay in large cities. What's the time it takes to get to the story, two weeks, three weeks, a month, a few months? How does the cabinet feel about this? Suppose other municipalities still want to provide basic care, because they don't want people wandering the streets. Are we going to cut these municipalities financially? Does the cabinet want to fine fellow humanity? How are we going to maintain all this? I'd like a response from this cabinet. For 50PLUS, it is important that people who cannot yet leave receive basic care, provided by municipalities, civil society organisations and churches. After a reasonable period of up to six months, it is better that they can only go to Ter Apel or a limited number of municipalities. In addition to a good basic provision with bed-bath-bread, we need two extra b's, namely guidance and awareness. It must be about strong guidance in our country aimed at return. Can the Minister tell us exactly how this is going to take shape? What has the cabinet done recently? It must be a matter of raising awareness in the country of origin to correct the wrong picture of our country, and of raising awareness here that we will not be able to stay in the end. That seems to us to be the wisest choice. Successful return policies require the cooperation of the countries of origin. We do not think that is going to be enough at the moment. We urge the cabinet to use all possible diplomatic and political means to persuade the countries of origin to withdraw from proceedings. Can the cabinet explain again what it did before that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. It is not always easy in this arena, certainly not for the most involved, but whoever manages to take a little distance from the diplomatic clap of arms about bed, bath and bread, it is above all a common struggle with a human problem: people who came here with dreams and expectations, but who should not stay here. Those people don't pack their bags and sometimes get caught between ships. Although we all believe that we cannot give everyone unlimited access to this country and that those who are not allowed to stay here should really go back, we all believe that we should treat these people humanely. In this permanent search for a better balance between these principles, the cabinet took a few steps last week. The cabinet wants to strengthen the return policy by taking good experiences of the Paulus Church and Utrecht as a template for a new kind of shelter: without prior conditions, but with time and peace, because the reconciliation with the return journey does not immediately descend. Not just bed, bath and bread, because then the street will still be your destiny during the day. As short as possible, as long as it is effective: so not to the infinite, for the rest of your life being in an emergency shelter is not a solution either. In the five municipalities where the numbers are highest and in Ter Apel where there is a lot of expertise. The other structural reception conditions for foreigners who are not legally resident can be closed down, but of course the Council of State's guiding ruling will be respected. Apart from the migration and asylum file, municipalities retain their responsibility to provide emergency care in case of emergency in individual cases. This is also not contrary to the current administrative agreement, as the cabinet stated earlier. No one has to sleep on the streets in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Samsom has already briefly indicated where the problem lies, because we are about to hear a completely different story from Mr Zijlstra. This is illustrated by the point of length of reception alone. Mr Samsom says: as short as possible, but as long as necessary. How long is "as long as it takes"? How long will that take?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u47	I said "as short as possible and as long as effective." I know many examples that it worked in two weeks, but it also takes a little longer. Therefore, the cabinet has decided to describe the implementation with "a limited number of weeks." I think that's a pretty clear description too. The cabinet simply leaves the final deadline to what is agreed in the administrative agreement with the municipalities. I think that's how we should do it. I experienced and heard yesterday in the hearing that there is the expertise there. There they know how it works with deadlines and how it works with customization. That is where people know how much time it takes. They all say, like me, that an infinite reception does not, of course, provide any solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u48	I really hope that we do not enter a debate where the questions are constantly turned away, because that is what Mr Samsom is doing in the first question. It'll get very complicated. It's a very simple question about the meaning of "a limited number of weeks." The answer is now: that depends on the administrative agreement. Several mayors, including Mr Aboutaleb, have said that we have three to six months. Can "a limited number of weeks" also mean "months" if the consultation on the administrative agreement that is needed longer means three to six months? Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u49	A limited number of weeks is a limited number of weeks. I have indeed heard Mr Aboutaleb, but I have also heard other sounds. I trust that the cabinet, aimed at a practical solution for these people, will eventually agree on a sensible period with all these municipalities. Some think Rotterdam is very important, but others think that other cities are the most important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u50	What does the Labour Party itself think it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u51	As short as possible and as long as is effective. Frankly, I can't put a specific number on that. I'm not an expert in this field. I sometimes visit those locations and there I have already said I see that sometimes it can be done with a little rest in two weeks and that sometimes it just takes a little longer. Perhaps we should leave it to the people who really understand it if we want a practical solution rather than each other with principles to beat the crap out of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u52	This will be a dramatic debate if it becomes the level of the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u53	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u54	They are clear questions, and we will continue; I repeat the question as well. I read somewhere that the original coalition compromise contained four weeks. Then it was six weeks, and then you both deleted it and turned it into "a limited number of weeks." So I just want to know what the commitment of the Cabinet and the PvdA Group is to the administrative agreement on the number of weeks. That is important for us as a cabinet auditor to know. Aboutaleb spoke about three to six months, and one of your group members said in the Paulus Church: it may also be a year. I find that quite different from a limited number of weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u55	It is not for nothing that the cabinet chooses not to enter into talks with a specific number with the VNG. Not for nothing yesterday, the chairman of the VNG committee, the mayor of Katwijk, said that he was not going to mention a specific number. If you're talking to each other about a practical solution, you need to give a little space for that conversation. I'd like us to do that here. I'll at least do that. That is why I say a limited number of weeks. That's the limited number of weeks it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u56	If it does not become clearer what a limited number of weeks is, we could immediately conclude that the agreement on this point is not in fact an agreement, that you are dependent on the municipalities and that, if it turns out that the local authorities' commitment is that a number of months to a year would be necessary, the PvdA will agree to this in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u57	I am curious to see what the cabinet is going to come back with, together with the municipalities, but indeed, you put it together well: we are focusing on the practical solution, as was also done in the Schouw motion for a resolution. It said: in municipalities people know about how it works. This was also done in the motion of the Christian Union and GroenLinks a few weeks ago. It said: Take the churches, in this case the Paulus Church, as a specific example of how one works with practical experience, knowledge and expertise to find a solution for these people. If we take that example seriously, and if we take that motion and the motion-schouw seriously, we will indeed do what is about in this letter from the cabinet. Then we give the cabinet a clear mandate, but also room for a practical solution. As far as I am concerned, that could be the commitment and also the outcome of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr Samsom says that it is not for nothing that we have not mentioned a specific number of weeks. But of course that is not true at all. Everyone has it since the letter has appeared, continuously in a specific number of weeks. The discussion is about the fact that the VVD and the Prime Minister themselves have said: we are talking about weeks. Those aren't months. The asylum spokesperson of the Labour Party said that a limited number of weeks could also be a year. I heard Mr Azmani on television last night saying 'two or three weeks, and then you're back on the street again'. I think I'm quoting him literally. Mr Samsom can say that it is not for nothing that a specific number of weeks has not been mentioned, but there are constantly specific numbers of weeks, only the difference between PvdA and VVD can not be greater than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u59	If we are going to look into the differences between the VVD and the Labour Party in this debate, I can help you quickly: they are very big. That sounds pretty clear to me. The VVD is afraid of shelter because it sees a sucking effect in it. The Labour Party, in particular, believes that care can provide a solution to the refugee perspective. Now this cabinet has decided to call these two great differences together in a practical search for a solution, a quest that we have all said for many years, Mr Buma, quite rightly, keep together. Moreover, we will never bring that search to a successful conclusion, because in human nature the search for a better life is unbeatable, and that nature never gets caught up in laws and rules. No political party can do anything about that, no politician can do anything about it, but we do have an obligation to manage it. We also have an obligation to bridge major political differences between the parties. I think the cabinet has made a nice effort to do so. This attempt will only succeed if the real difference is bridged and if a real solution is found, and this will have to be done in an administrative agreement with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u60	I'm sorry, but the spectacle of the past few weeks has nothing to do with a search. It's a trenches war. One says: I think of two-three weeks; no, I don't think of two-three weeks; we agreed on two-three weeks. The other says it could be a year. If you make an agreement, you should at least feel the obligation to provide the people who are involved with a minimum of security. That's totally absent. I would therefore ask Mr Samsom to provide much more clarity on this point and to ask the cabinet to do his homework again on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u61	No, to finish his homework, because the work has yet to be done. If you want me to give you false certainty, you won't get it from me. I'm not gonna name a number. I have also heard statements with open doors lately. The Prime Minister said weeks aren't months. As a physicist, I know that greats and units can indeed differ from one another. My colleague said there are 52 weeks in a year. That's right. I have heard it all, but I want to contribute to a solution to this issue. We do this by giving the cabinet a clear mandate and the space to find a solution with municipalities, where it has to be done. That must be our common quest, right? You say that over the past few weeks, the last nine days, we've seen something else. Yeah, that's right. Political parties who disagree sometimes show that. That is true, but in the end a cabinet has the task of providing a solution for those people. That's what the Cabinet needs to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u62	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u63	However, one more time: if it should actually have a character of a search, we obviously agree that this has not proved to be a great deal in the past week, surely it would be good if the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of State were at least open and not to say that there are two or three weeks or that weeks are not months? Those aren't noncommittal statements from that cabinet letter, are they? That is to say that is no longer possible. That is, of course, what the Prime Minister has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u64	No, he didn't. I wonder what he will say later, but I have seen a taste in the written answers. It simply states that "a limited number of weeks" is a limited number of weeks and that the cabinet is talking to the municipalities about the correct period of time needed to make part of the solution "let's not make it any bigger than it is to be able to offer for the people who it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u65	This is not an election debate in which we can take the measure of what we want to see in an election programme, because I can read election programmes. It is now a matter of clarifying what has been agreed. The letter is very clear about this: people are going to a drop-off center for a few weeks. I have just heard Mr Samsom say that, as far as he is concerned, you must read this in such a way that it is sought on an individual basis until a solution can be found and that it can take longer. We know from practice that it may even take a year or two years for a solution to be found. Do I interpret correctly that for the PvdA it is about the effect of guiding the people and not about the duration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u66	We are talking about the final solution or part of it. The length of time is important, not in the sense that we are meeting it here in this Chamber, but in the sense that we are meeting it together with the people who are actually involved. That's why I'm not putting a mortgage on the cabinet's assignment right now. That task seems difficult enough to me and you have added a few more difficult things to it. As far as I'm concerned, the cabinet is going to work on that, just looking for a solution. You say sometimes it takes two years. Yes, finding the final solution sometimes takes a very long time. I have seen that too, but the reconciliation of the unrighteous stranger with his perspective can be much earlier and that happens much earlier. How long exactly is that? We're all gonna have to make an agreement about that. That too will be another search, because we know that when we fill in 'a limited number of weeks' with a number of 'a few weeks' we will see that in one way or another in the administrative agreement again there will be raging edges and that there will be people again who can fall between ship and ship. That's where we'll continue the search.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u67	I understand that Mr Samsom is trying to prevent him from being pinned on something, but yet he says a lot of things from which you can distract something. For example, he does not distance himself from the words of the mayor of Rotterdam, who talks about three to six months. In doing so, Mr Samsom says that this is an example and that it could be as in Rotterdam. Without Mr Samsom mentioning a timetable, this means that a period of three to six months is possible for the PvdA. In this way, Mr Samsom is very far removed from what the Prime Minister said at the press conference, namely that weeks are not months. We don't have to play language games here, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u68	No, you shouldn't. That is why I am sticking to the agreement to give the cabinet the task and the space to come up with a workable, practical solution for these people. Mayors have a view on this; everyone has a view on it, but the mission for the cabinet is to bring it to a successful conclusion. If this debate ends in the great difference in principle between the number of weeks, then we agree on a great deal. That may be called an advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u69	Don't let Mr. Samsom worry. There's gonna be about 25 more, so we can wet our chests. The fact for me is that customization must be possible, that it must take longer than a few weeks, that such an example from Rotterdam from three to six months can in some cases be quite normal and that this should be a starting point. I hold Mr Samsom to that, because in principle we have the same opinion on how we should deal with it. He doesn't even distance himself from the examples we all know that it may take a year. That is what I find profitable in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u70	I would like to know from Mr Samsom whether there is room for the Chamber in today's debate to make any changes to the proposals put forward by the cabinet in the letter to the Chamber. Is that room in the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u71	I cannot, of course, say no to that in advance, because I have to wait and see what proposals you make. Let me say, however, that I believe that further specification of the contract is not in the interests of a solution. If we introduce all kinds of sub-specifications, then I do not think that will help the people we are doing this for. I'd rather solve this problem outside than in this room. In fact, I have the impression that a solution is often not getting any closer in this Chamber. Mr Pechtold quite rightly said this about a previous debate. Then it was about integration. This is an issue that is at least as persistent. Of course, you must find the political orientations with each other, which I believe are contained in this letter. Then you have to give the cabinet an order to get rid of it. This means that we should not get in the way of the cabinet in carrying out that task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u72	I don't care about four, five or six weeks or three months. I am also concerned about the principles of principle which relate to a subject such as this. I have heard Mr Samsom say that nobody in this country should stand on the streets and sleep. I think he said that in one of the lyrics he just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u73	I said no one has to sleep on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u74	No one has to sleep on the street. This agreement may mean, whether four to six weeks or three months, that people are put out on the street and the basic provision of bath, bed and bread is withheld. Do you share my view that this is a principled limit that you should not go beyond? Are you prepared with us to instruct the Cabinet to take that out of the plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u75	At the moment there are receptions, for which you have a warm heart and for which I also, for example in Utrecht, end up putting people on the street. If there is no perspective and no cooperation at all, then at some point you can only point the door to the person concerned. That still does not mean that he has to sleep on the street, because in case of emergency there is always emergency care in this country. That is completely separate from the asylum and migration dossier. Also in your own own own initiative paper, which you have submitted with a few other parties, you made as a condition for this kind of reception that there will be co-operation on departure. We do not impose any conditions on this kind of reception. Mrs Gesthuizen shouts: That is not true. Yes, you said as a condition that a solution will be worked out...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u76	There's a personal fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u77	No, it's not a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u78	...or whatever you want to call it. There's an error. The own-initiative paper, which was ours, is miscited. I want to correct that, otherwise it will be something in the debate. The note doesn't say "participate in departure." It says: "Participate in a solution." That's something else, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you. It's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u80	So you made a condition for staying in that shelter. This new practical solution does not impose any pre-condition. Of course, there is a limitation. Collaboration must become part of the solution at some point. When is that supposed to happen? A limited number of weeks is the focus. We can of course find the differences, which the Labour Party has also done with the VVD for a few days, but eventually you have to work on the solution. I think we have found a starting point for that solution here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr Samsom is running away from the question. It's about whether you finally think people can be put out on the street. In the Paulus Church, for example, it has been said: no, we do not put people on the streets; we are going to guide them, and we are going to do everything we can to guide them back to the land of origin, but we are not putting them on the streets. That was pronounced by the people in the hearing yesterday. That is a fairly principled line. I note that Mr Samsom does not want to go that far and does not want to put that line. I regret that. I would like to add a question which relates to the number of municipalities. Is there room for the Labour Party to offer similar facilities elsewhere in the Netherlands? That is already happening, because eleven municipalities have said that they will continue to do so. Is that number of five cast in concrete or can we give space, including to the cabinet, to do so in several places in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u82	I like to draw that principled line, but it doesn't help any asylum seeker or stranger. That principle has also been drawn in Utrecht. However, there is also what is happening in the Paulus Church. There too, people are sometimes forced to show someone the door. That is what happens in practice. That is why we also have a duty to look for a safety net before that, which is called emergency shelter in this country. In individual cases, this can always be used in an emergency. That is completely separate from the asylum and immigration dossier. A principled border is fine, but it is not the beginning of the solution. I would also like to give the cabinet the opportunity and the mandate to find a practical solution within the clear framework set out in the letter. I'm anxious to see what it comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u83	I have the feeling that Mr Samsom is not making us understand what that limited number of weeks means. However, I would like to correct it. The PvdA spokesperson didn't say: there are 52 weeks in a year. The spokesperson literally said: that can also be all weeks of the year. So he was talking about a whole year. I want to talk about what happens next. Mr Samsom said in the presentation of the agreement: mayors can always, in the context of public order, provide emergency care; no one needs to sleep under a bridge. Half an hour before that, the Prime Minister said at the same presentation: that can be done individually, never for a group and only for a day and for once. There's a lot of difference between them. I would therefore like to continue with Mr Samsom, after this limited number of weeks, on the question of what public order means by emergency care. Does he share the Prime Minister's view, expressed on behalf of the cabinet, that that can be for a day at most?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u84	Emergency shelter at night is always for one night. So it is even worse than Mr Pechtold says. The next night one looks again. That is what Mr Aboutaleb said yesterday in the hearing very clearly. So I am not holding on to the Prime Minister, however high I am, but I am holding on to a mayor who has been carrying on this responsibility for some time and has been successful. Mr Aboutaleb has an emergency shelter and he says: no one in my city needs to sleep under a bridge. He's in his own way giving effect to that statement. The then Secretary of State for Justice, the predecessor of this State Secretary, said earlier in a debate on the reception of asylum seekers: that type of emergency care is not at all contrary to the current administrative agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u85	So if it's up to the PvdA, the effect will remain that if that number of weeks doesn't work, and someone comes back to a municipality, it doesn't matter if it's in one of those five municipalities or Ter Apel, he or she can just spend the night in the emergency shelter and get bed, bath and bread there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u86	This is not a solution to this problem, but it maintains public order in this country. Whether Mr Pechtold ends up under bridge or Mr Samsom or someone who is undocumented, in this country public order is maintained by mayors and they are allowed to implement it in their own way. This is always about individual situations and born of need and not permanent and structural. It hasn't been for years. These are the fringes of society, in which people can end up. We all have to put this into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u87	This is a very important point. I don't care what you call it. In the emergency shelter can thus always be bed, bath and bread is offered. The mayor of any municipality is now 30 to 40 who organise a shelter with bed, bath and bread. A mayor can therefore always say in the interests of public order: I let my people see if they come by every night; if they do, that's fine and that's what I agree with. So that means offering bed, bath, bread. I am glad that Mr Samsom and I agree. So that just means that that really hard stuff, that honking horn that bed-bath-bread would stop, isn't true. It is simply a matter of public order. Mayors, do your job!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u88	That means the honking from both sides may not be true. I also hear local authorities shouting recently: we keep our bed-bath-bath-bath location open, while there is no bed-bath-bath-bath location at all. It shouldn't be a political statement. We are all looking for a good solution to a major problem. Structural shelter for non-legal foreigners in the form of a bed-bath lounge is not desirable and will not be necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u89	It's getting clearer and clearer. I welcome this translation of Mr Samsom. This means, in practice, that, if you call it a bed-bath bread supply, it will be closed and, if you leave those words on it, you will be fined. If you call it an emergency shelter and let the same people in and perhaps someone else lying under a bridge, then it may remain open and Mr Samsom calls on every municipality: especially do, because this is your normal policy. I'm happy about that. Is this the right observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u90	If you want to get rid of all the caricatures you make of it. We have 43 municipalities in this country that are ordered to provide emergency care in emergency situations in individual cases. Those 43 municipalities have been doing that for many years. Happening, struggling, because there are a lot of people sleeping under a bridge in this country. It is the reality that emergency care does not reach many people, some undocumented, some with passports. Those municipalities do their job and continue to do their job. What was and is at issue in this discussion is the search for a final piece of asylum policy, without creating the illusion that we will ever find it. We are now taking an extra step where we offer five new forms of shelter, a little inspired by some of this Chamber's motions to make it more effective. At the same time, we say that those structural bed-bath-bath-bath locations that we have seen recently can be closed down. That's what we're talking to congregations about. Is that such a strange approach to a persistent problem that we're all struggling with? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u91	I don't think so either. It's just getting clear now. As a municipality, you should only avoid putting bed-bath bread on it for illegal immigrants or processed asylum seekers. You have to make sure that everyone can go there; then you can keep it as it is. I agree with Mr Samsom. I am very glad that he translates it in this way, because that means that nothing needs to be closed, that no community that organizes emergency care for these people will be fined, and that nine days probably a pot of patience has been played.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u92	I sincerely hope that municipalities go a little further than making a game of what sign you're nailing on the door. I sincerely hope that the cabinet will go a little further than that. Then I will leave the rest here in this Chamber, but I hope that municipalities and cabinet will work together to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u93	It is getting worse, because Mr Samsom just stressed that the elaboration of this deal is determined by further negotiations with the municipalities. In other words, the VVD will have to add a lot more water to the wine, because we will also listen to municipalities. We did that yesterday and then the municipalities said that it is unacceptable to impose a fine. Can Mr Samsom in turn defend the agreement by saying, for example, that it is unacceptable that there should not be an agreement that does not contain a fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u94	Oh, a question with a double denial, but I think I understand what Mr Fritsma means. Enforcement and sanctions are not about the governance agreement, which is about the situation that there is no administrative agreement. I agree that if you cannot reach an agreement, which is a very undesirable situation, the Empire is bound to maintain existing agreements. That's just what this letter says. But let us be clear: the Labour Party, and I also hope the Cabinet, are going to work and want to make a success of a governance agreement, which also contains strict commitments to stick to the principles and their implementation, with incentives that sometimes do not have to lie. The sentence referred to by Mr Fritsma, which some mayors broke the staff yesterday, related to the situation that there is no administrative agreement. That administrative agreement itself does not include this so-called enforcement fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u95	This is too vague for words again! Do you now want to fine the municipalities according to the deal you made or not? You're just talking about it. You say we're gonna talk to the congregations. The municipalities have already said that they do not want that fine. So we're going to start the negotiations all over again. We're going to talk to the congregations about what they do and what they don't want. In other words, the agreement now before us is nothing at all, because you are going to talk to municipalities that, for example, do not want that fine. And you're not even saying there's gonna be a fine anyway. There's no agreement at all. The negotiations have yet to begin. What kind of weird shit is Mr. Samsom doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u96	This is the way an administrative agreement is made more often. If municipalities don't want a fine, they have to sign an administrative agreement. In this governance agreement, financial agreements will also be made with each other in order to respect each other's principles. How you then shape that, I leave it to the cabinet. However, the sentence in the letter is clear: financial incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u97	Let me be clear: Mr Samsom is talking about making agreements, but the municipalities have already said that they are not going to do it. The municipalities continue to provide shelter. The municipalities don't want any fines. And you want to make arrangements with these municipalities and listen to those municipalities. So there is no such agreement. You are simply referring to negotiations with the municipalities that are still to come. You don't have anything. You have nothing to offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u98	I don't know if you'd mind that now, but we're working on a governance agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u99	I don't want an illegal shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u100	You're more cynical about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u101	I address you to what you have promised and what you are not fulfilling. You yourself say that the agreement that exists is defined by means of talks with the municipalities, but those municipalities do not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u102	You're a little more cynical about the power of this country's administration than the Labour Party. It's customary, too. We assume that, if the cabinet uses an administrative agreement and the municipalities indicate that they also consider such an administrative agreement desirable, they naturally have their terms and conditions, as the cabinet's terms and conditions, set out in the letter, the cabinet has made it a success. That's what we've seen in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u103	After all the answers, I would almost ask for a suspension for Mr Samsom so that he can read his own agreement. What he says is about everything, but not about the agreement. Let me give you an example. He says there's a negotiation with the municipalities. Then we need a negotiating commitment. However, it has already been made clear that the cabinet has no commitment whatsoever to the duration of the reception: a limited number of weeks to a year. When the negotiations take place, Mr Samsom says: admit it, admit it. The VVD says stay strict, don't admit it. That's not gonna work. It now appears that an agreement will be negotiated. Now here's my question. Mr Samsom says that financial agreements are being made. But what are these financial agreements? What is a financial agreement if, in failing to reach a financial agreement, the cabinet makes a financial agreement that is a sanction? Can Mr Samsom explain that to me in a negotiated technical sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u104	I don't know if I fully understand the question. The governance agreement will be made binding so that it contains sufficient incentives to promote the implementation of the governance agreement. Is there anything weird about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u105	Pretty much, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u106	That's just what the letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u107	What's "binding"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u108	It will be made binding. So we keep each other's appointments. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u109	But then those appointments must be made first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u110	Yeah, they still have to be fixed. It also says: "will be designed." That's the time to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u111	I think there should be an extra letter or something like that, because Mr Samsom says that agreements are being made that must be made binding, but no agreement will be reached, and binding agreements will be reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u112	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I cause a lot of confusion. I'm not saying that, but it's literally in the letter sent by the cabinet. So if it is not clear to you, then you will have to question the signatories of the letter strictly. In my view, it is clear: we are all going to make an administrative agreement that includes agreements to keep each other in line with the principles and the agreements contained in that administrative agreement. In some administrative agreements that was omitted, but we do not intend to do so here. If there is no agreement, the cabinet is actually ahead of that, which is administratively sensible, but I hope that it does not come to that, then we will fall back on the administrative agreement that is already in place, the 2007 agreement, and then those agreements will also be maintained, for example with the sanction as stated in the letter. Now I have actually lost my speaking time by reading the letter you will be asking the cabinet about in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u113	It is of course very interesting that you pretend this is a letter from the cabinet, because I have also seen you walk in and out of Torentje. So that's very unusual. One more thing, Mr. Chairman. That is my final question to Mr Samsom. He says there will be sanctions based on an old agreement, but there were no sanctions at all. A cabinet cannot take sanctions out of the sky and impose sanctions on municipalities. There's no legal basis, there's no deal. How is Mr Samsom going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u114	It was also the mutual agreement to implement this under the 2007 administrative agreement. If that does not work, that is new in this letter; it is a plan... the cabinet will want to maintain it, for example with the measure contained in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u115	Have the Labour Party and the VVD agreed with each other that they will agree in advance here in the Chamber to a possible government agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u116	No. However, we have agreed that we both consider the governance agreement to be so important that things have to go weird if we do not agree to it. But a guarantee in advance has not been given. The Prime Minister himself has said some very good things about this kind of guarantee. He compared them to vacuum cleaners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u117	Can Mr Samsom then imagine that there will be an administrative agreement along the lines of the harshness of the letter, which states that people will only be sheltered if they cooperate in expulsion and only last four to six weeks, after which people will be thrown out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u118	We don't make those terms. That's already clear in this letter. No prior condition shall be attached to such reception. This is a difference from, for example, the own-initiative paper you submitted. This reception is not subject to any prior condition, so that is clear. How the cabinet gets back with the limited number of weeks, we'll wait and see. I can tell you what the Labour Party thinks is important. We believe it is important to find a practical solution to this huge problem. We think it is important to achieve this with support in as many municipalities as possible, in all municipalities. And if the cabinet comes back with that, then it is very obvious that the Labour Party will agree to this, because it would like to see a solution for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u119	In the last half hour, 45 minutes, I have lost time for a moment. Mr Samsom has, above all, tried to renegotiate the agreement concluded in such a way that it resembles what the Labour Party thinks. I might have done the same, so I don't think it's so unwise, but it's something quite different from the cabinet's commitment to getting an administrative agreement. In fact, Mr Samsom says here: we do not have an agreement at all, at most a start note that allows the cabinet to go to the municipalities; in the end, we need to negotiate there and perhaps there will be an administrative agreement, which we will discuss again here. The Labour Party has already indicated that it explains a lot of things differently than the VVD, so then the whole circus starts again from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u120	Indeed, there is no administrative agreement yet. If there is, I assume that Mr Roemer will be the first to request a debate on this, because it is important enough to debate it in this Chamber. Otherwise, we will. I cannot anticipate the outcome in 100% certain terms, but we think it is very important. We shall therefore look at a successful governance agreement with great goodwill. And about the explanation: if Mr Roemer wants to use this debate to look for the differences between the Labour Party and the VVD, I can save him that time and effort. Those differences are huge. These have led to a number of days of negotiation, of which everyone has been able to enjoy or grimize, and to this cabinet letter, in which we have agreed a few things with each other. We talk to municipalities to conclude the governance agreement, and the framework conditions are clear. Those are also recorded in this letter. However, they also offer room for further administrative agreement. For the rest, it is stated that other structural emergency care for foreigners who are not legally resident in this country will be closed down. Mr Roemer just made a very nice game of that, but it doesn't have to be. Those are the two appointments there are. That is a hard-won compromise; that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u121	In fact, in the last 15 minutes, it is increasingly less and less about the content and more about the procedure. The cabinet has apparently agreed that an administrative agreement must be reached and that the parties must comply with what they have agreed. And if there is no administrative agreement, municipalities can be fined if they do something contrary to the previous administrative agreement. I would very much like to know what that governance agreement should contain. I think that's the most important thing for the municipalities. I have a very specific question: is it true that the agreement concluded by PvdA and VVD actually says that we are restricting reception to six locations? All the other municipalities that want to do something in this area are out of order. That's what we agreed on, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u122	Yeah, that's a deal. We have good reasons for this form of shelter, which is different from what it is so far. It is inspired, among other things, by what is happening in the Paulus Church; that is also in the written answers of this cabinet this morning. The Paulus Church experiences play a role in the conversations with congregations. There are good reasons to limit this type of reception to six, such as the geographical distribution of where the problem occurs most pregnant and the expertise in Ter Apel. We think it is reasonable and sensible for the cabinet to go to the UNG with that mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u123	You are going to negotiate with the municipalities because you want to come to a governance agreement, but now dozens of other municipalities that are not among those six say: we want to continue with what we have been doing for years, not least because we are achieving good results. Often that is exactly what the cabinet wants, namely a safe return. Can this be done, or will there be no administrative agreement, the old administrative agreement and municipalities still be fined? That's a relevant question. We know what these dozens of municipalities want, they want to continue! Last night, Utrecht decided to do so. In Utrecht they want to continue with what they are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u124	Utrecht is also in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u125	There are dozens of congregations that are not in the letter, that's what I was talking about. In Utrecht they want to continue with the way they are doing now. Apparently, they think that's contrary to what the Cabinet has agreed. I was talking about the dozens of municipalities that are not mentioned and that of the cabinet should not offer bed-bath bread anymore, but should now enter into negotiations. If they don't get out of there, they'll get a fine. That's the reverse world, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u126	Utrecht offers shelter to people and does ask a question of cooperation beforehand. Anyway, that aside. For the rest, Utrecht offers time to those people and, sometimes forced, puts people back on the streets if there really is no country to be saddled with, to put it in domestic terms. I think the cabinet can talk to Utrecht about how big the difference is between what Utrecht does and what the cabinet is doing. Here the reception is given a slightly more extensive form than in the other municipalities. In most other municipalities care is provided only in bed-bath bread provision. That is not a perspective, which Mr Van Ojik can also find in the own-initiative paper he participated in. In the end, it's not a solution either. The real solutions come from shelter where more is done than just a bed-bath bread supply, limited in time, focused on perspective and ultimately on a solution for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u127	So I hear Mr Samsom actually say: Groningen, Nijmegen, name all those places that are not in the list, you have checked it out, you have to stop, because with those five that are mentioned in particular in the letter it remains. With those names in hand, the cabinet will speak with the VNG. If the municipalities want more, they don't get more, and if they don't make a deal, the knife on the table comes in hand, then there will be a fine. Is that the reality that we are about to see in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u128	It is interesting that a number of colleagues are trying to seduce me to open as many doors as possible. Strangely enough, I had shaved Mr Slob underneath, but he is now trying to seduce me to close a door. I won't do either. We want this administrative agreement to come about. Although I am not a member of this cabinet, I do feel the responsibility to make this administrative agreement a success. I reduce the chances of success as soon as the doors open or close. What's in the letter is the starting point. That is wisely chosen, and the cabinet is working on it to make it a success. I sincerely hope that Mr Slob agrees with me that this should ultimately be the most important outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u129	I don't want any closed doors, but I want clarity. I want to make it clear where the Labour Party stands when it comes to this letter, which we know she was involved in all nine days. We see that for the pre-stage reception a wording is chosen as 'a limited number of weeks'. So that's negotiable, whether it's gonna be two, four, six or three months. So that can be discussed. However, when it comes to the locations, we see that a hard number is mentioned and that it is already filled with names. Then the question is only logical and justified. It is being asked by my colleagues, and I am also doing it if there is room to extend it. Yes or no? I just want a clasp-and-ready answer, not to close doors, but to have clarity. Clarity for the Chamber and clarity for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u130	Clarity by throwing a door shut. We have chosen, with good reason, I have just given a number of arguments for this idea and for this approach. That's what we're talking to congregations about. Yesterday, Mayor Klein was not tempted by your colleague to open or close doors; that was wise of him. He didn't say that it had to be more than this or that it had to be no more than that. He didn't say that either. I don't do that either. Let us all take responsibility, including in this Chamber, for working occasionally towards a solution rather than towards political profit or loss accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u131	By the way, it was Alderman Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u132	I hear Mr Samsom saying that we should not close doors. However, I also heard him say that all the other bed-bath bread solutions in cities that are not as big as the five cities mentioned in the letter should be closed. He just said so himself. They have to be closed as far as he's concerned. I'll get a city out of it, Groningen. Should Mr Samsom's Groningen close or not? Or can that be included in the negotiations with the VNG and is there just room?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u133	If these negotiations succeed and we get a number of emergency shelters that are more than bed, bath and bread, then it is also logical that the rest of the bed-bath-bath facilities where only at night and possibly at night a little shelter is offered should be closed. There's no perspective for these people. That's elsewhere to be found. That is why this commitment, this compromise, came out of these nine days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u134	I can't get an answer. I'm asking for Groningen in a very specific way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u135	If we're gonna walk past all the places, we're gonna be here for a while. I'm just answering. If it is possible to provide shelter in these five locations, plus Ter Apel, geographically not too far from Groningen, in accordance with these principles, then it is logical that elsewhere the municipal structural emergency shelter aimed at non-legally resident foreigners, should actually close.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr Samsom has literally reduced that so-called agreement that has been concluded to nothing more than a negotiating mandate for talks with the municipalities. I hope the VVD listened in too. The municipalities have said: we do not want to participate in this, we do not want a fine and we continue with the shelter. If there is no agreement with the municipalities, we will therefore fall back on an old administrative agreement which explicitly does not contain a penalty clause. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u137	The association of non-cooperating municipalities seems to be in the room here. I'm not gonna assume this at all. But in fact, what Mr Fritsma is saying is true. Therefore, it states that the enforcement of that governance agreement will be undertaken because no financial arrangements have been made with each other in the current governance agreement of 2007. In fact, it seems to me to be a correct observation. But if Mr Fritsma makes himself the representative of the non-cooperating municipalities in this country, I do not think there are any.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u138	I only address Mr Samsom to what he wants. Fortunately, he is now explaining this more and more clearly. A: So there is no agreement. We're waiting for negotiations with the municipalities. B: Mr Samsom admits that an agreement without a fine clause may be subject to a re-examination in the near future. Then the municipalities can simply go ahead and continue with illegal shelter. I congratulate Mr Samsom on this work, but I find it incredible that the VVD has been fooled, because this party has nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u139	Now it's starting to scare me a little bit. This morning's letter states that the five municipalities are actually covering the country. Now some municipalities and even mayors of the municipalities that belong to the five, such as Aboutaleb, say that it should be more. What if the VNG and the municipalities in the next agreement, which has yet to be reached, say that they think there should be more places? Is it then conceivable that Groningen, Nijmegen, Arnhem or all three remain open to bed, bath and bread?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u140	Only bed, bath and bread does not seem to me to be a solution. So I do not even think it would be desirable for this to happen. Again, we are not working towards that. Bed, bath and bread was and is no solution for these people. A solution is a shelter with perspective. The note from three parties, not Mr Pechtold's, but from three other parties, cooperated in this. The Schouw motion and the Voordewind/Voortman motion have pointed this out. That is what we must strive for. It is not even desirable that they remain open. It is desirable that we should provide a good alternative form of shelter with municipalities where prospects can be offered for return if people are not allowed to stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u141	This is not an answer. I meant bed, bath, bread and counseling. Mr. Samsom is playing games now. He creates confusion himself. He creates the mouse hole himself. If these municipalities say that the model of shelter, so bed, bath, bread and accompaniment, is not enough in those five municipalities and Ter Apel, is it conceivable that Groningen, Arnhem and Nijmegen will be added to it, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u142	We'll see what the cabinet comes back with. If that is wise, it is certainly conceivable that we will agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u143	That is an important commitment. We can table a motion for that. That is, of course, important, because then we can ask for an opinion in the Chamber. Mr Samsom, a majority in this Chamber, with the PvdA, recently established that bed, bath and bread are the humane form of shelter in the Netherlands. That's the minimum. We're getting pissed off internationally. When I ask you whether the outcome of an agreement is that it is possible to give other congregations bed, bath, bread and guidance, you say yes. I think that this should be put on record in a Chamber statement with the Labour Party because I am going to hold you to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u144	It is particularly useful, conceivable and even a duty on our part as representatives of the people to ensure that the solution comes closer. So we simply do not support the fact that any name, back number or specific content of motions is more than necessary in order to achieve a good result. Because I want a solution for those people. You play political games elsewhere, but here I am working on a solution for these people and not on all kinds of other stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u145	This is of a certain level, isn't it? What do you mean, political games? We were allowed to watch political games for nine days, while a majority of the House supported by the PvdA said: keep your back straight and explain what has been clearly said in Europe. Now we've had those weeks. And what does Mr Samsom say? A few weeks is a few weeks. We're not getting anywhere. Then we come with emergency shelter. Yeah, emergency care can be a day, but you can't call this a "bed, bath and bread" anymore. Then you have to call it "emergency shelter" and look at it every day. As a parliament, we are in the process of setting the cabinet in the direction of the municipalities. I think it is an important fact, and I will keep you to it, otherwise you will vote against what you have just said: it is conceivable that municipalities such as Groningen, Nijmegen, Arnhem or any other municipality are needed in that list of five. I think that's a guiding statement. The fact that the cabinet says that the current five municipalities are factually covered is not only a lack of topographical knowledge, but also a lack of understanding of the subject we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u146	You can check it out in the Acts. I just said: it is conceivable that the Labour Party will vote for it when the cabinet comes back with a sensible solution. That is certainly conceivable. I don't have to record that in a motion at all. I want the cabinet to work on a solution for these people, a practical solution to an issue in which the differences in principle appear to be very large. This cabinet now has the simple and at the same time difficult task of shaping this practical solution with the municipalities. I'm just saying one more thing. Does this plan offer a definitive solution? No, definitely not. All in all, it is a step in the right direction, in the knowledge that a search for a better life will never be constrained by laws and rules. As long as it is free, prosperous and peaceful and there is oppression, poverty and war, people will continue to come and we will continue to discuss what is the best way to deal with it. I think this will continue after today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u147	I shall return to the matter of the motion. Mr Samsom has said a few times that he does not need to put this in a motion. The fact is, it's already been filed in a motion. That motion has also been passed. Not only did the PvdA vote in favour. I assume that we all agree that adopted motions must be carried out by the Cabinet, whether we have all voted in favour or not. Does that also apply to the motion stating that the approach of the Paulus Church as an example...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u148	...executing deserves...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u149	That's right, it deserves to be followed. Mr Samsom has the motion before him. It is not about five or six municipalities, but about everywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u150	I think this question has been asked once before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u151	I don't have the motion in front of me, I just paraphrased. Well, I'm sure there's no other place names in the motion. Perhaps Mrs Voortman did not want to choose because she would be biased for her own city, but she could also have chosen Utrecht as an example. Both examples are also used in the Cabinet letter as inspiration for shaping this new form of reception. The answer to the question as to whether the cabinet is implementing the motion submitted by Mr Van Ojik's party is to him. In the written answers to questions, the cabinet says it will let you know exactly how the cabinet is going to do that. So we'll wait and see. However, I have seen enough leads in the cabinet letter to say that the mission of the motion, namely to allow the Paulus Church to serve as a source of inspiration for shelter elsewhere, is shaped in this letter. Although this is done in a very specific way, the cabinet has the right to do so. However, I would not like to conclude at this stage that the cabinet is rejecting the motion. In fact, the opposite is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u152	That approach has a number of characteristics, as Mr Samsom knows as well as I do. The approach is not limited in time and is accompanied by guidance that is not only aimed at expelling people as quickly as possible. This approach offers much broader guidance. Those are two things that seem to contradict what is in the cabinet letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u153	Also in Utrecht and the Paulus Church, people say very clearly that endless care is not a solution. There too, there must be a limited time perspective for a solution. After that, it sometimes takes many years for that solution to exist, but also for this solution is given in this cabinet letter, because the painful twelve-week period in the freedom-limiting locations Gilze-Rijen and Ter Apel disappears. That twelve-week period meant that people from China, for example, but also from large parts of Africa, could not return, because 12 weeks for many countries is a completely unfeasible time to issue a laissez pass. The blockade on return that was created, which rightly means that people can't go back at all, we let go. In this way, the thought expressed in the motion and implemented in the Paulus Church is given substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u154	However, there is one important difference. This is the same difference that also exists between the approach of the cabinet and the initiative paper of the three parties to which Mr Samsom refers several times. Perspective on a solution is not equal to perspective on eviction. The solution can take many forms, including, and this is not surprising at all, the re-examination of an application, which sometimes leads to the granting of a residence permit in dozens of cases. Thus, perspective on a solution is not equal to perspective on eviction. If we agree on that, we'll take it a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u155	Also in the Paulus Church the conversation with people is started about whether this is their future in this country. If it turns out that this is because someone really can't go back or because someone still has the right to stay because of circumstances, a new procedure will be called upon. That's what's happening in the VBLs right now. If someone reports to a VBL and says he actually wants to go back to his country of origin, and is therefore allowed in because this is a tough condition for the VBL............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Sometimes it's an out-of-debt permit, but sometimes it's another. That is what is happening in practice at the moment. We're all people looking for a solution to this huge problem. Also in those VBL's I know which stories are sometimes about So that will be the case in the emergency shelter. The starting point is and that is stated in all your election programmes: those who are not allowed to stay here, those who have been told by the judge that there is no place for him or her in the Netherlands, must return to the country of origin. That is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr Samsom is most delighted when he can say how different the VVD and the PvdA are on this point, but that cannot hide the fact that he has made a deal. So my question is exactly what kind of deal that is. Is it about the number of open centres, for example? So the deal is: there are five and one in Ter Apel and from that point of view we are going to talk to the municipalities? Or is the commitment of negotiation and the possible outcome of the deal that has already been concluded that the cabinet returns with more? What deal has Mr Samsom complied with: up to five or five as a commitment to municipalities, but there may also be more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u157	It is a bit of a question that I think has been raised once or what.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u158	Well, he's something else, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u159	Well, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr Buma has in any case managed to formulate something else, that is true. Compliments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr Samsom, could you perhaps give me a short answer to that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u162	The political compromise we have reached here is in this letter. It says "I think there are good arguments for this too," and it was our part of the deal that five locations were created plus Ter Apel, where a solution for these people is being worked out with perspective and without conditions. The other part of the compromise was that, elsewhere in the country, bed-bath-bath-baths would no longer be desirable and would have to close. That is the political compromise between two parties who think very differently about the function, usefulness and necessity and the desirability of accommodating people who are not allowed to stay in this country. That's the political deal that lies here. Subsequently, both parties saw that measuring differences in principle and resources, but providing part of the solution, and that the real problem is solved where it happens, in municipalities. So both parties have been wise enough to instruct the Cabinet to conclude an agreement with municipalities, with the commitment of this letter and the desirable outcome of this letter. What the cabinet then comes back with, I'm not 100% sure, although I, like you, can take the direction out of this letter. We will see that at the moment when it is ready and the deadline is also mentioned in this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u163	Of course, that's not the answer to a hard-won deal. The two of you said five shelters and one in Ter Apel. It doesn't say: we're going to negotiate with municipalities, and that can become more. No, in fact, if that deal around this story isn't implemented, sanctions will come into effect. So it's really two-and-a-half. Or you say that there is a deal, but actually we mean to say that we have a negotiating commitment and that it may be one more us. I think that's what you want, too. In my opinion, however, you have made a deal of: five plus one, there will be no one, then the sanctions of the VVD. I see Mr Samsom shaking no now. Then I wonder what Mr Zijlstra will say about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u164	You put the word "or" in between, but it could be both true, right? We have indeed agreed on a political compromise with each other. Let's not be so secretive about that. Of course, two parties that think differently about this matter sometimes also need a little time to find each other again at this point. This has been achieved, but the most important solution is not here in this Chamber but elsewhere, namely where the reception facilities are set up. We also agreed with each other if you want to call that a deal, fine, we both agreed that there should be an administrative agreement in which that solution is designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr. Roemer, do you have a whole new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u166	Yes, my last one to Mr Samsom, at least if he doesn't say anything weird, because you never know; then I can always come back. My question to Mr Samsom is as follows. What is happening according to the agreement he has concluded, with people who, even after a few weeks not to be mentioned in the VBL, do not want to participate in return?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u167	They are pointed at the door, as sometimes happens in Utrecht. If there is no cooperation and there is no prospect of a different solution, then what has been happening in practice for years, people are being pointed out. Many of them, Mr Aboutaleb with all his experience, have also pointed out that they disappear in Dutch space but some of them come in need and then knock on the door for emergency care. Then I quote Mr Aboutaleb from Rotterdam: 'In my city, no one sleeps under a bridge and on an individual basis in that need I offer that shelter'. This is how you treat people humanely, but at the same time you treat people strictly. Mr Van der Staaij said it very nicely: you must be strict and just in the policy that you have all shaped. It must also be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u168	So these people get kicked out. They come under bridges or in portals and then depend on a mayor who wants to create an emergency scenario under another name. If the mayor doesn't want to, these people just end up under a bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u169	As in my reading of the own-initiative paper, it also happens to people who absolutely do not want to contribute to a solution. I quote the SP's own initiative paper correctly. It refers to the criterion 'if there is no cooperation'. The co-operation criterion is thus changed to a non-co-operation criterion, but that is still a criterion. It is a criterion that you have devised for this group of people, on the basis of which you grant people access to the shelter. If there is no desire to cooperate with any solution... Unfortunately, this is sometimes the case in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u170	Madam President, I would like to put the question to Mr Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u171	But Mr. Samsom was still working on the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u172	I answer that question with you to point out that in your own initiative paper and also in the press releases you distributed last week, you say that the SP is the only condition for reception that people cooperate in a solution. That is a condition. If that condition is not met, the door of the shelter will not open and someone will not enter that shelter. You and I are struggling with exactly the same problem, you and I are struggling with exactly the same reality. We are now trying, together, to get closer to a solution, with your own initiative paper and the cabinet with this letter. I think there's less light in that than you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr Samsom didn't read it properly. We don't put people out on the street, while Mr Samsom does. Earlier he shouted in the media: no one has to sleep under a bridge. Well, we ask a little by way of "that has lasted an hour" and then the monkey comes out of the sleeve: people just stand on the street, as the VVD said. If Mr Samsom had said that right away, we would have saved an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u174	You are arguing with yourself, because an hour ago you stood here triumphantly saying that emergency care was available to everyone. Then I explained it in exactly the same way as before, and now you're making the opposite conclusion. It's time you had a little longer discussion with yourself. Maybe you'll get somewhere sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u175	I would like to discuss a new subject with Mr Samsom. We now have six months before this administrative agreement, which has the magical date of 1 November. I hope it will be, because I find that what is now in front of the PvdA is a kind of commitment agreement. It could be more towns. Good mayors will probably negotiate that with the Cabinet. But what if the board agreement doesn't come? Then there's the fine. Then you cannot fall back on the old governance agreement; it is a new mechanism. I'm confused about that. There is a budget integration newcomers and that can be reduced, but that is only 15 million for 400 municipalities. Is that it or is there more room for that which I didn't want, but which I do have hanging in the air?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u176	There is more space, because it says "for example." It cannot therefore be this measure either. Sometimes examples are not carried out. It could also be another measure. I don't want to make it too uncomfortable. The Prime Minister put it funny, but of course it's never that in this room. You should not blame me for not wanting to anticipate this situation too far. I'd like a board agreement. The Labour Party attaches great importance to cooperation with the municipalities, where the solution for people must be offered. Of course, the PvdA attaches just as much importance to the implementation of agreements that we make with each other. That is why there is what it says about the retained budgets for integration, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u177	Deals with each other? You made those appointments with each other. There are no fines in the old administration agreement. If there is no new administrative agreement with the municipalities, you will fall back on the old. You said so yourself. Under pressure from the VVD you are now introducing a fine. That fine can go beyond budget integration newcomers only. You yourself say that this can actually cover the entire Community fund. I think it's a big deal that you're gonna negotiate with municipalities and say...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u178	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u179	If you don't agree with us, we'll cut you down. I don't know what. How does Mr Samsom see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u180	The previous administrative agreement did indeed contain a financial penalty, but it was reversed by the one mentioned here: the budget for the integration of newcomers was linked to the implementation of the agreements in the administrative agreement. There was then a cabinet with a slightly different composition, ChristianUnion and CDA were also involved, but that administrative agreement did contain strict financial sanctions to keep each other's agreements. You're saying there's a threat of sanctions. The cabinet can keep quiet about it, but you must also dare honestly say that you want agreements to be implemented. Then you should not make things much bigger or, in the words of the Prime Minister, uncomfortable than is necessary. Let us all work on an administrative agreement that will certainly solve this problem. I admit we're farther away from home if there's no governance agreement. That would be a very undesirable situation and my party would be the first to bring this cabinet back and say: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But that will require the cooperation of both parties. Yesterday I noticed that there is this cooperation, in addition to the many criticisms that are of course made of these agreements, as is customary in the municipality. You've been out there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u181	It's either one of two: or you say "our appointments are the appointments you have to take over as a municipality" or you say "we're going to negotiate, but without a sword or knife on the table." You don't say: that means we can cut you down on the entire community fund if we don't agree because we don't get our way. I find that quite a fundamental difference in how you negotiate with municipalities. I do not see any positive comments for you in the last few days. Again, I want clarity from the PvdA. What is it? Is negotiating with the municipalities room to change things or is it "this is it, swallow it and, if not, a fine that can cover the entire Municipal Fund"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u182	It's like it almost always happens in these kinds of conversations with local governments. It's gonna be negotiations with a stick behind the door. If you confine this debate of principle to a debate on the negotiating tactics of the cabinet, we can simply agree on a lot of things. I think it is also up to the cabinet to carry out this negotiating tactic properly. Negotiate with a stick behind the door: you have done so yourself in your conversations with the Antilles. This is how we work together in this country and we usually get out in good harmony.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u183	Mr. Chairman. A pronunciation of... so! Did I start yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr. Chairman. Before we begin, I would like to hear from Mr Zijlstra whether he agrees with Mr Samsom's observation that there is a possibility that we might fall back on the old administrative agreement if the negotiating mandate with the municipalities fails and that municipalities will then be able to proceed with the illegal shelter without penalty. That is literally said, and I simply want to say yes or no from Mr Zijlstra to ask whether he agrees with this or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u185	I have also written along and I think Mr Samsom has made it very clear at the end that more financial incentives can be used if there is no addition to the current administrative agreement. For the sake of clarity, there is an administrative agreement and it is still in force. I don't think there's a word Russian, Spanish or anything. I don't understand this question, honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u186	I have clearly asked Mr Samsom to clarify this. Is there a situation that, if there is no new governance agreement, will fall back on the old governance agreement that does not contain any fines? Then Mr Samsom said: that is actually right. Now I just want to hear from Mr Zijlstra whether or not he agrees with the statement made by the PvdA group chairman? Yes or no? If he doesn't, we'll just waste our time here. It'll just have to go back to the Tower, because then we won't talk about anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u187	The trouble is that Mr Fritsma is asking me about something that I do not think Mr Samsom said. But I'd like to give him an answer that he might be able to handle. It is quite clear in the letter that we want enforcement if there is no administrative agreement. Let us be clear that the current governance agreement also includes an enforcement instrument. That only ended in 2009, because we ran out of money. That, by the way, was the same amount of money that we want to address again. The government's commitment to this issue is therefore clear, namely that we are trying to get an administrative agreement. As far as we are concerned, enforcement should be part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u188	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u189	Then I have news for Mr Zijlstra, albeit bad news. We checked it again. The then Secretary of State for Security and Justice, Mr Teeven, said that the current practice of providing illegal shelter by municipalities is not contrary to the administrative agreement. That's literally said. So Mr Zijlstra still doesn't realize how heavily he's been paged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u190	Your question, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u191	The PvdA says that we have an agreement here that is no more and no less than a negotiation shot with the municipalities. The municipalities say: we are not going to do it, we do not want to do it. Then you say: we fall back on an old government agreement. And then, for all intents and purposes, a VVD Secretary of State said that the current practice of illegal shelter is not contrary to that agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u193	I can't believe, again, that Mr Zijlstra was fooled there. You sure he didn't think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u194	Again, it is a beautiful image that is created here. It would be nice if it were also the reality, which makes the discussion much easier. In practice, this is the public order criterion. This is how we get to that point right away. The public order criterion is already there. That applies to every Dutchman. Let me try to lay it down picturely: suppose we find someone in a bus booth or anywhere else under a bridge, much was said to freeze someone dead there. We don't let anyone freeze to death in this country. We are not going to ask: do you have a passport or not? No, then, on the basis of public order, reception is offered. In my opinion, Mr Van der Staaij has done a good job in this respect. I see Mr Fritsma's gestures: arguing with the chairman. That criterion was fulfilled by the then Secretary of State of V and J. It was and it is. There's no other way to do that. Mr Fritsma made the link with bed-bath-bath-bath facilities. That's not what the Secretary of State at the time was talking about. One should not apply selective listening here and not selectively quoting. That's the situation. I can't make it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u195	The questions start a little fast. Well, that makes sense. Perhaps Mr Zijlstra can simply share his input. Then we'll ask the questions. I think that's much more efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u196	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u197	Then I'll ask my questions. Mr Fritsma had two points which I share in my questions. The first is this. The VVD wants to conclude an agreement with the municipalities and then says: if it does not, we will maintain it on the basis of an existing administrative agreement. I went to law school. You can't just go into a Chamber and make new appointments, and say that if municipalities don't want new appointments, you're going to maintain an old agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u198	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u199	In addition, it is not maintenance. The second point I have raised is this. Is it now an agreement that you want to make with municipalities or, as Mr Samsom says, is it a commitment to negotiations and is it quite possible that the cabinet will also return with six, seven or eight reception centres? I believe that these two points are at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u200	As regards enforcement, Mr Buma goes to the administrative agreement that was concluded at the time by the Balkenende IV cabinet, with the participation of CDA, Christian Union and PvdA, so I shall go back to that. That administrative agreement states literally: "Municipalities will not, in view of the above, cooperate directly or indirectly in the reception of illegally staying foreigners in our country and end the existing emergency care." The "topside" was the creation of a state facility for foreigners who co-operate in departure and we as a VVD, I honestly say, a less successful one-off general pardon. That's what it says, and that's an appointment with municipalities. We would like it to be complied with. There was then a pot of money available for it, and if municipalities didn't, they wouldn't get that money. The only downside is that the money was transferred structurally in 2009 and that the Empire had no control at that time. That is why we also welcome the fact that the cabinet has indicated in this letter that we want to achieve the things that were agreed in the 2007 administrative agreement between the Rijk and the municipalities. The Empire takes responsibility. In fact, in relation to the administrative agreement, we are taking a step further, because we are giving the return even more shape. At the same time, we expect municipalities to comply with their share of the agreements. Considering it doesn't work well without a stick behind the door, the VVD is satisfied that in this letter that stick is indicated behind the door again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u201	The only thing that surprises me is that the PvdA group is not laughing at the benches. As Mr Zijlstra himself says, we concluded an administrative agreement at the time and money was transferred to municipalities. If the congregations go to court, there is no judge who will say: yes, that money can be returned to two cabinets and three chords later. There is nowhere in the agreement that if the Empire wants things later, the money transferred will be recovered. Certainly, if it had not been paid out, the cabinet could have said: we are not going to pay. It is not therefore a question of political agreements. The smartness of the PvdA is that it has known that this agreement cannot be held, because the sanction does not exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u202	You have to be a lawyer to follow this reasoning. However, reality is very simple. There have been agreements between the Empire and the municipalities and these agreements are still on the table. Municipalities have committed themselves to closing the emergency shelter in question. We want municipalities to keep these agreements. We are satisfied with the fact that the cabinet has clearly stated in the letter that, if there is no administrative agreement, we will continue to do so. There is even talk of a supplement, and that clearly indicates the direction. We have mentioned an example of how that could be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u203	I feel that there is already some hesitation with Mr Zijlstra. I'm happy about that. I took the board agreement for a while. It does say that 55 million go to the municipalities and that if they do not keep the agreements, they do not get the money. But the money has already been transferred and there is nowhere in the agreement that the Empire has the power to go back years ago and recover money long spent when a new cabinet, three Cabinets later, wants to do something else. It just can't be. Mr Zijlstra can continue to say 'politically we want it', but we are a rule of law, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u204	Yes, and in a state of law, political decisions are taken, with the Empire taking responsibility for those things it has agreed with municipalities, for example. That authority is right here. We can therefore clearly conclude here that, at the moment when the municipalities we have made agreements with them do not comply, we have the power to take measures to that end. I don't have to see a judge for that. That's just politics and that's how it's laid down. That is clearly stated in the letter. The VVD welcomes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u205	What an unimaginable blunder of the VVD. What an unbelievable amateurism. You have signed that you can rely on an existing administrative agreement. I've looked it up even better. As Secretary of State for Security and Justice, Mr Teeven literally wrote in a letter dated 16 December 2013 that the bed-bath bread supply in Amsterdam fits perfectly within the framework of the existing administrative agreement. What have you been fooling around with? This is almost unimaginable. You are signing an old agreement, which, by the way, has referred to your own State Secretary as an agreement within which excellent bed-bath-bath facilities fit. What an unbelievable amateurism. It's unbelievable. You don't have anything. Do you realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u206	You asked your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u207	Mr Zijlstra has zero point zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u208	Mr Fritsma, you asked your question. I call Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u209	Beautiful remark with once again nice selective shopping in the quotes. The former Secretary of State has clearly indicated what is inside and what is outside the administrative agreement. There are no bed-bath-bath-bath facilities within the board agreement. So it's a nice try, but we're not gonna let them take us by the nose. Maybe I'll have to turn in my contribution later, because I don't know if I'm gonna get to it with all those interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u210	I hope so. I call Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u211	Mr Zijlstra may be able to delete some of his texts. Because, he just gave a very nice answer, namely that the VVD will never let anyone freeze to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u212	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u213	That is a very good starting point. In fact, that's human. In fact, that means that at that time there is a reception facility for people sitting on the streets and need shelter. Isn't there a political word game here by saying that you have a kind of provision like the one in the letter, and another provision that is just there for everyone in the Netherlands? Mr Zijlstra spoke of "Dutch," but it concerns everyone in the Netherlands. No one in the Netherlands has to freeze to death, so everyone can be caught in a municipality. It's the same thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u214	No, that's quite a difference. If you offer a reception facility to people who are out of proceedings, the judge has established that they are not refugees and have to return to the country of origin, and if they refuse to cooperate, then there are no reception conditions for them as indicated in the letter, namely that pre-stage for the vbl. The moment you have a public order problem where someone is in personal need, it's no different than five, ten, twenty years ago. So I'm talking, for example, about freezing to death on the street. We're a civilized country, so we're not gonna let that happen. After all, public order is not a single title for creating an illegal shelter, such as the bed-bath bread supply. There is therefore an essential difference. That essential difference is also what we have spelled out in the letter, because it is at the heart of asylum policy. At the moment when someone does not cooperate on departure, refuses to comply with judgments of Dutch judges, there can be no long-term care for such a person. We have said that we give that person a short time, a limited number of weeks of rest and do not immediately ask him the question: do you want to cooperate, yes or no? If that person's answer is "no," he'll be on the street right away. At the moment a person is there under the direction of the Return and Departure Service, it is moved to return. But if that person refuses to cooperate, then it will indeed stop, as Mr Samsom clearly pointed out. That person can't get any facilities. Otherwise, we would create a very unfair situation. Those who do participate in departure, who do return to the country of origin, will receive shelter in this country, and rightly so. But why should these people still cooperate in returning if they are also provided if they refuse to cooperate? The VVD finds that unfair. We believe that the group that cooperates should be rewarded. That's why there's these facilities. We give people some time to think, but at some point they have to choose. If they refuse to cooperate, then there is no provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u215	We need to keep two things apart. The first is: the whole problem of return and the way you're going to organise it. There is also the whole story of the procedures surrounding the out-of-debt permit. The second is: how do the municipalities deal with this? That is also the reason for the discussion we are having at the beginning of your speech. The municipalities state: on the grounds of public order, we never let anyone freeze to death. That supports the VVD. Then there is another provision that local authorities might say in the discussions on a governance agreement: we do not, or we do, but we then have another sign and make a different provision, namely a provision where people do not freeze to death. So that means that, from a material point of view, you always give every municipality the opportunity to take people in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u216	Then we'll come back to the same distinction. Municipalities have emergency care, just general, for wanderers and people in trouble. Illegals have no right to do so, except in the context of public policy. I just mentioned the beautiful example of someone freezing to death in the freezing cold. I don't know if there's a party here that says, "Don't worry about it." At least we're not saying that. However, public order is certainly not a title for creating a reception facility for out-of-court asylum seekers who refuse to participate in departure. It seems to be a small difference, but it's a rather fundamental difference. This is precisely what the dispute is about. As a result, municipalities have partly failed to comply with the government agreement with the Empire. Those reception conditions should disappear. That's clear in the letter, too. The fact that municipalities have other shelters, where in an occasional case the Prime Minister has that on an earlier occasion also clearly stated someone can stay one night, that can happen. However, this is quite different from a structural provision providing long-term reception to out-of-court asylum seekers who refuse to participate in departure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u217	I'm gonna go check on the spokesmen at the Interrupt Microphones. I want to give everyone the chance to ask all the questions. However, I would also like to give Mr Zijlstra the opportunity to express his contribution, as you have all done. So my proposal is that you leave your questions for a moment and that we start with his contribution. You also had that opportunity, Mr Slob, like everyone else. I'll give you another chance to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u218	I would like to ask a question about what Mr Zijlstra has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u219	I understand that, but I find it a little strange that Mr Zijlstra has been standing here for ten minutes and has literally not spoken a word of his contribution. My proposal is: let him speak out. Then you will have every opportunity afterwards. Perhaps he will answer the questions you have in his text. I'm giving Mr. Zijlstra the chance to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u220	Surely a little politician can make his contribution on the basis of questions? Or should it be a read-out story because otherwise he's afraid he's gonna forget a point or a comma? I think Mr Zijlstra knows how to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u221	You've had that chance, too. That's how we agreed. I would also like to offer Mr Zijlstra that opportunity. I'm gonna offer him one, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u222	On a point of order, Mr President. A Member of Parliament may always make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u223	You may make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u224	I would ask for a three-minute suspension, because I would like to have a letter circulated through you to all the spokesmen and to all the rulers present, because that letter is important for the further development of this debate. It says... I must say: unfortunately it says that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u225	We're going to get the letter... your point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u226	... the bed-bath bread supply as it existed in Amsterdam fits perfectly within the framework of the old government agreement. That's a relevant point. That is why I request this suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u227	I propose that you respond to your request in part: we are going to copy and distribute the letter and, in the meantime, Mr Zijlstra has an opportunity to make his contribution. Thank you. Mr Zijlstra, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u228	I started the challenge of ending with still four minutes of speaking time on the clock. Apparently, I won't set that record. As I said, there was a statement by the Committee of Ministers on the scope of the Social Charter. This has led many have been able to see that up to some days and nights of vigorous deliberations between VVD and PvdA. The essence of this was, of course, the question of how we should deal with this statement. The government agreement agreed that there should be a restrictive and fair immigration policy and an active and effective return policy. The decision of the Committee of Ministers does not impose a duty on the Dutch authorities to provide reception conditions for displaced asylum seekers who are illegally staying in our country and refuse to cooperate in their departure. The VVD therefore insisted that the restrictive and fair immigration policy should be maintained, so no reception conditions for this group. At the same time, we also see opportunities for improving return policy, including a pillar of the government agreement. So that's what we've been focusing on. This led to the agreement between VVD and PvdA to focus more firmly on the return to the country of origin of displaced asylum seekers. In addition, it has been agreed that processed asylum seekers who refuse to cooperate in their return are not entitled to benefits...Well, it worked for half a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u229	I'd like to talk about the more solid bets on it. This process of trying to persuade people to return has been going on for years, for more than ten years. That was already the case with Verdonk and Teeven and with Leers under Rutte I. Now I saw in the figures that last year, under Secretary of State Teeven, the return was not the weakest on this file, the return decreased by 26% compared to the year before. How can you make it firmer than Verdonk, Leers and Bitches put together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u230	I do not immediately have a scientific basis for the figures mentioned by Mr Pechtold, but it seems to be parallel to the fact that the number of reception conditions increased at that time. You might be able to draw that parallel. So I do not know what point Mr Pechtold wants to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u231	I particularly want to know what "stronger" means. For the shelter remains; Mr Zijlstra has just said so. So people stay in bed. We have made it clear in this debate under what heading it is. It is no longer called "bed, bath and bread" but "emergency care." So he's staying. There'll be no difference in a minute. In particular, I want to know what this Secretary of State is getting, and I think he has a great deal to do with additional mechanisms, laws, rules, fines or other possibilities to make it more robust. What's the new thing about what's been happening over the past ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u232	I think so. The new thing is that the question is now asked: do you wish to cooperate in your departure? If the answer is "no," there are no reception conditions. Maybe you should give those people some time to think about that question. We have seen examples in the country where that works reasonably. Often things are not as good, that may be said, but sometimes it works reasonably. What can we learn from that? We need to use the expertise of the Return and Departure Service and give those people a limited number of weeks to answer that question. The question is asked at some point. If the answer is "yes," then one goes to the location in Ter Apel. They work on departure and return to the country of origin. If the answer is "no," then there is no provision for these people, then it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u233	Well, then it's "stronger" him only in limiting the reflection period, isn't it? Even now there is a period of reflection in the Paulus Church and in other places. Then the question is justified. We also talked to Mr Samsom about what the maximum number of weeks is for the VVD. We heard that in the original plans it was four weeks, then it became six weeks and now it says "a few weeks." Within the PvdA it is discussed that it can add up to a year. We hear mayors say it takes them six months. I'd like to know the commitment of the VVD. You say that this is one of the measures that makes it stricter, but what is "a limited number of weeks"? What outcome do you agree with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u234	A limited number of weeks is different than a few weeks. It says "a limited number of weeks" and that's what it is: a limited number of weeks. It doesn't say "many months," to name but a few. I repeat to Mr Samsom that we are discussing with municipalities how we can do this well and learn from the experience they have gained. The same applies to the expertise of the Return and Departure Service. There is a reason why this should be done under the control of the DT&V. You must respect the professionalism of those people, so a limited number of weeks does not mean that we offer long-term care until the end of the month. We need to work towards answering that question: do you or do you not want to cooperate on departure? That question has to be asked at some point. You don't get into the shelter without that question being asked. That is the professionalism of the DT&V employees, as we expect from teachers and doctors. Professionals weigh when that question needs to be asked. That will be clear to a lot of people after a few weeks, then you literally talk in a few weeks. There will also be individuals who need more than a few weeks, then you're talking about a limited number of weeks, because you don't have to put it as a blueprint. We offer this freedom to the Secretary of State in the negotiations with the municipalities. That freedom we offer above all the professionals in working with these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u235	Moving on to that. Those professionals include the mayors who see in the municipalities exactly what is happening there and which are the possibilities and sometimes impossible for a decent return. Yesterday, the mayor of Rotterdam, our all-known Aboutaleb, was in this house. He said he'd need at least three to six months to work properly on his return. Is that also included in the definition of a limited number of weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u236	I'm not going to fill in on "a limited number of weeks." I can repeat the reasons for this, but this is what Mr Aboutaleb has said. Others have also indicated other things. We are dealing with the expertise of the Return and Departure Service that will have to steer it. We do not say exactly what the number of weeks is. I know exactly how that goes, because if it gets a day longer, we'll have another debate in this house. A limited number of weeks is not many months. It has to work and the question has to be asked at some point. A limited number of weeks is a limited number of weeks. I leave a piece of freedom to the professional to ask that question at the right time. I'm not gonna pin that right here on the square inch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u237	That is clear, in the sense that Mr Zijlstra does not intend to give any substance to this. What has been filled out very precisely, so to speak, up to the square millimetre.... is the number of reception locations. It was chosen very consciously, is my impression, to say in the letter that there are five plus Ter Apel as VBL. Is this still negotiable? Is there room for discussion with the VNG and with the municipalities to reach possibly six, seven, eight, nine or perhaps even ten or twenty locations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u238	There's a reason in the letter that it's a limited number of weeks. There's a reason why the letter says it's five plus one. We're going to talk to the municipalities, but that it's written down tighter isn't without reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u239	I would like to hear more clearly from Mr Zijlstra. There's five plus one. So that's it about the VVD? Or is there room at the VVD to possibly raise it, if that could be the outcome of a consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u240	There's five plus one. There's not a limited number. There's some openness. If we are going to say 'here you have a dictation and it is by definition a matter of drawing at the cross', then you do not have to talk to the municipalities. Yes, it is clear that this is much stricter written down than the other passage I was referring to. That's not without reason. However, we will also talk to the municipalities. It is clear that we have in the north Ter Apel and in the south Eindhoven, and we have the four big cities in which a large part of the group is located. We consider this to be a good division both geographically and in terms of size. The Secretary of State will enter the conversation, but I think the stakes are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u241	I would like to comment on the deadline. Mr Zijlstra says that Mayor Aboutaleb spoke in three to six months and that others say something else. What struck me during that hearing was that in fact all the mayors, regardless of their political color or the city they represent, said the same thing: what the cabinet wants cannot be done in a few weeks; then you have to think rather in terms of months. That seems to contradict what the Prime Minister said. He said it was weeks from now, not months from now. The VVD group has also said: after a few weeks you are back on the street. I think it's important that this be clear. Either we leave it to the experts in that administrative agreement, so to the mayors who speak on behalf of those municipalities and then we talk about months rather than weeks or we leave it to the VVD and then we talk about weeks instead of months. That's a significant difference, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u242	By the way, the VVD has not spoken in two to three weeks, as Mr Van Ojik suggested in an interruption to Mr Samsom. I did not hear Mr Azmani say that. He was fairly consistent and talked about a limited number of weeks. I will try to maintain that consistency today. Then there's the experts. With all due respect, mayors aren't experts. They have locations in their municipalities, but I do not consider them experts who can assess what to do with this group of people in order to assess whether or not they want to return. They are public policy experts, for example. Experts work at the Return & Departure Service. People are currently working in facilities that you can learn from. We should not consider a group too large as an expert. It's about those people who know what to do with this group of people, how to ask questions, how to feel at what point you need to ask the question and what consequences you need to draw from it. Mayors can't do that, I say with all due respect. They have to deal with the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u243	In those two to three weeks I saw Mr Azmani on television last night. I don't think he had a limited number of weeks. Anyway, we can look into that very easily. We can ask him ourselves if I misquote him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u244	I already did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u245	Okay, I'll do my homework on that point again. Of course, it is not a question of whether the mayor is the expert. The point is that the mayor represents his municipality and speaks on behalf of all those people who are working in municipalities to provide shelter. They unanimously say that I noticed yesterday that it is more a matter of months to guide people towards a solution, return if you like, than weeks. Mr Zijlstra cannot deny that. That is why I ask him once again whether, when the cabinet sits at the table to talk about such a governance agreement, we can go along with that thinking and whether we can follow the widely supported view of mayors that this is months rather than weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u246	It doesn't say "a limited number of weeks" for nothing. It is not for nothing that we want to sign an administrative agreement, and I have to say every time: an addition to the administrative agreement, and that we must include the expertise of the people concerned. This concerns the people of the Return & Departure Service. Again: this is done under the direction of that service; that is really different from in some municipalities, where there is no such involvement. And of course we also look at the lessons that municipalities bring, because otherwise we would have written exactly sharply: it is an X-number of weeks. We did not do this on purpose, because we want to be open both to the municipalities and to experts. But let us be clear that this is not an endless shelter. It is not a shelter you sit in and where you then sing your time, while you hope that at some point you might qualify for a general pardon. No, it's return-oriented shelter, where you get some rest at the beginning. It feels like the right time to ask the question: are you going to cooperate or not? Of the largest group, it will be very soon clear whether or not they want to cooperate. That group will therefore proceed very quickly to Ter Apel, because they are cooperating, or will no longer have shelter because it is very quickly clear that they do not want to cooperate in return. There are also individuals for whom you simply look with customization or maybe something extra is needed. We offer this openness, but everything is aimed at cooperating with departure and making that choice as soon as possible. That can't be endless. It's not a long-term shelter. Let that be clear; there is not for nothing "a limited number of weeks."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u247	I think that by now the Labour Party already has the cake going around in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u248	I hope it tastes good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u249	It is really amazing how flexible Mr Zijlstra has become. When the Prime Minister gave his press conference to the Netherlands, he talked about five reception locations and one in Ter Apel; period. In the meantime, this has become the focus of the negotiations. Of course, it is not for nothing, but 'we also understand that the negotiations can lead to something else'. Pick it up, Labour Party. The second point is that the period of reception must not become endless. Who in the Chamber has ever mentioned "endless shelter"? Thanks to Mr Fritsma's letter above the table, we now know that this can be about six months. Three months later you cannot withdraw a letter from your own cabinet. Finally, Mr Zijlstra says that if these municipalities finally provide shelter, they cannot sleep under a bridge. That's the literal text of everyone here. That does not mean, of course, one night. That could be a little longer, because those municipalities don't send someone back knowing he's under the bridge the next day. In short: that whole tough story. The Secretary of State is already nodding; I think we're getting somewhere from two weeks ago is completely gone. There is a very nice deal and the PvdA can just say to the grassroots: we have won.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u250	Honestly, this isn't a contest "who won?" There is no competition at all, but you obviously want to play it. Let us be quite clear that, following the Committee of Ministers' ruling, it has been clearly stated that it is also stated in the letter from the Cabinet that, in a broad sense, the government does not have a duty to provide asylum seekers who refuse to participate in departure. That's clearly written down. So we are sticking to the strict asylum policy, the restrictive immigration policy agreed in the government agreement. It's gonna stay that way. There are no facilities for people who refuse to cooperate in their return. Those facilities are currently in place and are about to be closed down. Let that be clear. In addition, we want to shape the other pillar of the government agreement, the strengthening of the return, through the article on the twelve-week period. Mr Samsom mentioned the Chinese; that is a good example of incidental cases. If these people can actually return just after 12 weeks or a little longer after 12 weeks, we would be crazy if we said: you have to get out. This would prevent us from returning. It helps everyone to get as many people back as possible. The pre-phase locations we are talking about, which are fully in the service of return and which are not a reception location such as bed-bath-bread, let that be clear, because they are all going to close down to get there to strengthen the return. At the heart of the asylum policy if you do not cooperate on departure, there are no provisions for you to stand up. That was important to the VVD and, frankly, I am satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u251	In the debate with Mr Samsom it became clear that we actually have a starting note to reach an administrative agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u252	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u253	Yeah, so far it's been explained that way. Today, a motion signed by a majority of the council has been tabled in the Rotterdam City Council; there are so many signatures, including those of the PvdA, that that motion will by definition receive a majority of the votes. This motion instructs the College not to limit the number of weeks spent in the Rotterdam reception, by a certain period of time, and not to make it an obligation to cooperate in return. Can Mr Zijlstra imagine that this will be the outcome of an administrative agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u254	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u255	That is clear; then so do the people behind it. A second point is that we heard the mayor of Rotterdam say in the hearing that an individual solution must be sought, that it can take at least three to six months and that no one is put on the street; if necessary, the mayor himself will pick them off the street. Can Mr Zijlstra think that this will be part of the administrative agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u256	I repeat myself. The mayor of Rotterdam used the criterion of public order. That is not a title for shelter; there is no such title. On the basis of these agreements, we will talk to the municipalities about the implementation of the pre-stages of "Ter Apel." Let me keep calling it that; that's the VBL. We are going to talk to them about this: how are we going to fill that out and how are we going to do that? Then we are also going to give the experts the room to indicate exactly how to do it. That's what we're gonna do to them and we're gonna see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u257	That's clear. That six-month period is therefore not part of the administrative agreement as far as the VVD is concerned. This also applies to "sustaining" people; the letter is clear about that. Mr Samsom was there when we asked him about this, and he was also clear about the fact that under the heading 'emergency care' everyone can be taken individually if the mayor thinks there is an emergency. You yourself gave the example that this may be the case with severe frost, but can you also imagine that someone in the middle of the summer does not have a roof over his head because he has been put out and that a mayor who finds sufficient reason to give him longer, day after day after day after day after day after day after day, can the mayor do so again every day, so more structural and for a longer time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u258	If a mayor uses the public order criterion to structurally accommodate asylum seekers who have been processed, this is in breach of the administrative agreement, including the current administrative agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u259	My final question is: does Mr Zijlstra then agree with me that his interpretation of the compromise is 100% contrary to the story we have just heard from Mr Samsom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u260	No, because I have also heard Mr Samsom clearly say that the criterion of public order is something born of need and which is not permanent and not structural. That's exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u261	I think Mr Zijlstra's input is almost pathetic. What happened? There's been a negotiation shot with municipalities. The municipalities will say: we are not going to do this; we do not want this. Mr Zijlstra, you agreed that the old administrative agreement would fall back. The cabinet, through the then Secretary of State, Teeven, indicated that emergency care provided by municipalities fits perfectly within the existing administrative agreement. In fact, there has been literally talk about the bed-bath bread supply in Amsterdam, which may last for six months. There you go with your "a few weeks"! You have therefore ensured that the existing practice of illegal shelter by municipalities continues because your own State Secretary has said that this reception is not contrary to the existing administrative agreement. Again, it's unbelievable that you've been fooled into doing that. I have two questions. The first question: were you aware of that letter from the Secretary of State, which literally states this? The second question: did the VVD sign for this? Is the VVD gonna sign for this? That is what I want to know now, otherwise Mr Zijlstra should go to his group room to have a good talk with his group, especially with Mr Teeven. After all, we have seen an almost unheard-of blundering behavior here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u262	Well, what Mr Zijlstra has to and does, Mr Zijlstra himself decides. I don't need Mr Fritsma for that. As far as that letter is concerned, it is slowly starting to challenge me where all these great words come from. I believe that the former Secretary of State in the Havenstraat in Amsterdam has done a test to see if the concept of putting that group in such a location, in a setting that has been described by a number of parties here as "very successful," was a success. The outcome was different, by the way. That's why the letter is different. The result was not that this was a success in Amsterdam. That's why the letter is as it is. So it doesn't say we're gonna do that. The light that Mr Fritsma is trying to create here with very big words is unfortunately not there. That's very disappointing for him, but that's how she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u263	The outcome you're talking about wasn't even established at the time that letter was written. Come on! It literally stated that a You have uncorked all the champagne bottles in every left town hall that the Netherlands is rich, because you have legitimized illegal shelters for six months. Again: it's amazing how bad the VVD has made things, because in addition to the existing shelter we now also get new legalized shelter. You've made it into an unimaginable chaos. Unfortunately, the Dutchman pays a very high price for that. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u264	What am I supposed to do with that? I think the letter is pretty clear: the existing bed-bath bread facilities are closing. That's clear in the letter. In the context of return, we are also going to ensure that, taking into account discussions with the municipalities, we are trying to reach a governance agreement, and taking into account the views of the DT&V professionals, we are going to look at how we can further strengthen the return. Mr Fritsma makes a huge picture of this. That will be true, but reality is another. The VVD goes for that reality, a reality that works and is also restrictive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u265	I had prepared for the Zijlstra I read in the reconstructions and I thought it would be difficult, but I am incredibly happy. After all, the number of municipalities is not limited to five; Mr Zijlstra is not going to be difficult about that. Provided that the mayor no longer calls it "bed-bath-bread" but "emergency care," provided that the mayor does not say that the shelter is structural and that the mayor says that he has that judged every day by his people, Mr Zijlstra agrees. One final point on which I believe we can meet the municipalities and all the people who feel involved is how we deal with private initiatives. How do we deal with churches and individuals? We saw a report about someone from Urk, who has a processed asylum seeker in the house. I'm assuming there's room for that. In any case, I do not hear the VVD saying that there is also a policy to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u266	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u267	I am always happy if I can make Mr Pechtold happy, even though he does not always give a correct interpretation of words. As far as the question of private institutions is concerned, we did not manage to get through the government agreement that the participation of private individuals and organisations fully funded would be punishable. This has not been achieved; I will indeed have to acknowledge that. It was and it is. I haven't been able to do anything about it; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u268	So we will soon have five municipalities plus the number of municipalities that the municipalities can negotiate, as Samsom and Zijlstra have said. We have the shelter financed by the municipalities, as long as it is called "emergency shelter." If the municipality is also a bit smart and ensures that private bodies such as churches do the bed-bath-bread shelter, but then not be financed for bed-bath-bread but for example for the restoration of the glass in lead and the bell play in the church, it is actually arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u269	Mr Pechtold tries to put words in my mouth every time. I have already indicated that there is not for nothing in one place "a limited number of weeks" and in the other place "five plus one locations." When parties instruct a State Secretary to talk to municipalities, he will talk to municipalities, but the stakes are very clear. So don't try to make that any different than it is. The same applies to reception sites. Bed-bath-bath-baths where refugees who do not participate in their departures are now in place, who are in 45 municipalities sometimes they are only being set up, but still they have big words closed, because they offer long-term care to this group. Instead, under DT&V control, the latter is not insignificant at five locations outside Ter Apel for a limited number of weeks, giving people the opportunity to think about the question "I'm going to cooperate or not" and that's it. I think that's a good outcome, because it aims to return. Eventually I see and perhaps even the PVV sees that they want people to return. That's a very good point. The other good thing about the VVD is that we are going to close those bed-bath-bath-bath locations that are currently in 45 municipalities. If that does not happen, we have arranged for this letter to be maintained. That too is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u270	The latter is therefore regulated by this letter, but in practice it will prove that it does not happen. In addition, what Mr Zijlstra said is really a weak broth of what it started with: it closes and goes on. In doing so, the letter of the Secretary of State plays a greater role than Mr Zijlstra suggests. He says that the reception in Amsterdam was not such a success and that the letter is no longer valid, but the letter is valid. The letter from the Secretary of State is about the system. If you do something like this, does it fit within the old administrative agreement: six months of shelter focused on return, cooperation and so on? It's six months of shelter, and the answer is yes. Those congregations are gonna sit down at the table. Then you say it should be two or three weeks, I'm guessing three or four. The municipalities will then say that they do not make a deal on that basis. Then you say, "Okay, then we're gonna keep it." However, you can never legally maintain below six months, because the cabinet has already agreed to this within the old administrative agreement. The municipalities have those six months, which the PvdA undoubtedly loves, so just inside. There's no getting away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u271	We have a letter with many aspects in it. It's got a limited number of weeks in it. A nice attempt is being made, yet another, to get that filled out. It doesn't say "a limited number of weeks" for nothing. There are all kinds of measures that we will examine. We are going to make funding dependent on whether the return works. That was also the essence of what happened in the Havenstraat: it was not too successful there. These conditions are not in vain, because we do not want to end up with a provision in which people who refuse to cooperate will receive shelter. That is the essence of asylum policy. There are no facilities available for people who refuse to cooperate in their return. That's clear. Some parties can't like that, but that's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u272	Yes, but the world does not change because Mr Zijlstra here preaches it from the seat of the speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u273	Well, I do have the illusion every now and then. Well, that's a disappointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u274	I'm afraid I'm gonna have to take that illusion away from you. You say again that the Havenstraat was not such a success and that agreements are being made. However, the municipalities do not have so many reasons to make one appointment with you at all, because they think that they are doing it very reasonably. Let us assume for a moment that these municipalities are going to do what they said yesterday: we do not need an appointment. Then you're going to maintain. Then I say: the bottomline, which is very real, is that the municipalities can always legally maintain that six months is allowed, because the cabinet itself has said so. That is what it is all about, because agreements are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u275	I repeat that the cabinet has not written down for nothing: a limited number of weeks, aimed at returning. That's what we're gonna talk to the congregations about. I mentioned the professionals of the DT&V, who were trained and trained to do so. Their role also weighs heavily. Something's gonna come out of that. The most important thing for the VVD even in the variant you indicate is that it is still the case, so in that sense I don't understand the big words that there is no shelter for foreigners who refuse to cooperate in their departure. That is the essence of asylum policy. It was important for us that that essence should remain and remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u276	In his attempt to save what is to be saved, Mr Zijlstra is now also going to lie. He says, "There's no shelter for people who don't cooperate on departure."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u277	Mr. Chairman. I'm being called a liar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u278	Mr Zijlstra, you want to make a personal statement? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u279	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u280	I can explain. It is people who do not want to participate in departure that are being taken into account in these new facilities. People who do cooperate on departure are already being taken care of. We have heard Mr Samsom himself say: we are not going to ask questions, we are also going to receive people if they do not want to cooperate on departure. Everyone heard him say it. Now Mr Zijlstra comes up with a lame story: people who do not want to cooperate on departure will not be heard. He can make it a personal fact what he wants, but he's just lying. This reception facility is intended for people who do not want to participate in departure. Mr Zijlstra denies it. Mr Samsom has emphasized it up to four times in the press...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u281	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u282	I would say to Mr Zijlstra...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u283	You repeat your question now, so I suggest that Mr Zijlstra responds to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u284	I would say to Mr Zijlstra: please stop, because you are only making things worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u285	Mr. Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u286	If Mr Fritsma wishes to speak out loud for lack of arguments, he must do so. But he must be right. His statement that people who refuse to cooperate on departure would have a provision is factually incorrect. Look at the letter. It says what we do. People who have not yet indicated whether or not they are participating in departure will have a limited number of weeks to think about that question. When the answer to that question is no, they refuse to cooperate on departure and there are no facilities available for them. Mr Fritsma may now point out that his words were a little too heavy. If he doesn't have that decency, that would be disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u287	I'm not moving in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u288	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u289	Again, I'm right on my side and anyone can control that. Mr Samsom has said that everyone has access to this reception facility, even if you do not cooperate on departure. Again, he said it three times: no questions asked. The conclusion is therefore that this provision is open to people who do not want to participate in departure. If Mr Zijlstra even denies that, he is even more desperate than I thought. I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u290	I don't know where that came from. I think the letter is very clear. Perhaps I have listened less selectively to Mr Samsom. I'd like to hear that from the cabinet. That can confirm it; then we know what the situation is. At the moment when someone in the facility who is asked refuses to cooperate on departure, there is no provision for the person, point and nothing else. These facilities are not open to people who state that they are refusing to participate in departure. That's clear in the letter. So I have nothing else to make of it, despite all the indignation of Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u291	I am happy to continue with this, because what Mr Zijlstra says is very interesting. Is it conceivable for Mr Zijlstra that there is another outcome in this shelter as referred to in the letter than the departure of a foreigner? Let me give you an example. There is someone coming into this shelter who after a week indicates that he has found a document which he believes justifies the start of a new procedure. Could you do that in this shelter? The cabinet keeps saying in the letter that you have to cooperate on departure. So at that point, you're not gonna be working on leaving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u292	This is a very nice one. Let it be very clear. Anyone who enters a new procedure for any reason simply has the right to receive the COA. He doesn't have to be in such a facility. So this example is far-fetched. It's a group that's finished. "Processed" means "not in procedure."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u293	Suppose at that point someone indicates that he is suffering from a post-traumatic stress disorder and, for that reason, doesn't want to cooperate on departure at the time. He's not ready, and you can't solve that in two, three or four weeks. Would it then be a conceivable solution for such a person to be helped after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u294	If someone says he has any kind of condition and doesn't do anything about it, that's no reason. If someone actually has a medical problem, the person can apply for a new procedure under Article 64. If that application is honored, he'll go into procedure and you'll have the same situation again. He's in procedure, so it's about a whole different group. Let's be clear it's not about that group. These are people who have been brought to an end and to whom the Dutch judge has often referred many times: you are not a refugee, you can safely return to the country where you come from, you must leave the Netherlands. That's the group we're talking about. The group that refuses to cooperate on departure actually says: I just want to get my way, although I am not a refugee under the Dutch rule of law, I just want to stay here, I have to get that permit and I will do everything I can to get it done. If that group answers the question "do you want to cooperate" with no, then we do not offer these people any facilities. That is the essence of this letter. We have indeed given them a little more time to think about that question. That's what I think is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mr Zijlstra is clear about this, for which he is grateful, but he is running away from the actual problem that mayors are struggling with today. Part of that group of processed asylum seekers can go back, has to go back and will go back. However, with some we have a problem: the out-of-debt criterion does not satisfy or other items do not meet. That's what mayors run into. Mr Zijlstra is dropping all these people. In fact, as far as the VVD is concerned, they are on the streets, while the Labour Party has clearly indicated that an appropriate solution will have to be found for them, even if it is different from direct departure. So we just have two compromises here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u296	It's a game of selective listening. On the question, I think you asked it yourself, but it could have been someone else who did what happens if someone does not cooperate, Mr Samsom literally said: then he or she will be sent to the door. I don't know where the light is, but it seems clear to me: if you don't cooperate, it'll stop. It is unfair to all those people who do cooperate in leaving. Then we will end up in the situation, and I do not know if you intend to do so, because people who cooperate in leaving Ter Apel are going to be back at some point in time to their country of origin, while those who continue to refuse and who have maintained it because they can go to a shelter, which bed-bath-bath-bath-bath-baths, will still be here in a few years' time and may even be eligible for a pardon scheme. That is the ultimate injustice. Those who listen to a judge in this country would be worse off those who do not listen to a judge in this country. That injustice is not the responsibility of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u297	Of course, this debate is somewhat surreal, if you have listened to Mr Samsom first and all the answers he has given and now Mr Zijlstra is getting right behind it. However, that is a reality that we are dealing with. I myself have a question for Mr Zijlstra about public statements he has made. He keeps saying that these are people, but in recent weeks he has made a comparison between asylum seekers and Holleeder. At least he called them in one breath. How do you choose, Mr Zijlstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u298	For that, I can go along with the wording I have just used. If a judge in this country makes a ruling, we want him to be listened to and to be implemented. That goes for everyone. My comparison on that point was also about that. I didn't say that processed asylum seekers who didn't cooperate are criminals. No, I said if someone like Holleeder didn't listen to a judge like her, he wouldn't have spent a day in jail. The same goes for this group. If they listened to the judge, they'd just come back. That is the essence of my comment. Whatever else has been made of it by others, I leave it on behalf of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u299	You could also ask yourself if you didn't wake up suggestions you might not have meant. By calling all these people in one breath with a man like Holleeder, you may have given some reason to do so. Perhaps it would be a good idea for Mr Zijlstra to reverse that picture for himself and wonder if he has done a very sensible job of doing so. My conclusion is that he shouldn't have done that. Looking back on the past few years, we see what the big problem is. We simply cannot achieve a comprehensive asylum policy. That's the joint struggle. Whatever we have done about the expulsion policy, I refer to the administrative agreements 2007, the good intentions and the service, which would do anything about it, we simply cannot do it. Isn't that perhaps also a reality that we should accept? If it can't be made completely final, we may need to look at whether we can come up with a decent solution for the group that's in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u300	I really do see a connection with the provision of this kind of amenities. It went well until 2009; the number of facilities fell rapidly. Afterwards, even after the money was empty with which the cabinet could send to municipalities, it slowly went the other way. I understand that, if they have a choice between staying in the Netherlands or going back to Bangladesh or another country, those people have the first impulse that they prefer to stay here. That is perfectly understandable, but we cannot deal with all the problems of the whole world in this country, and so you must not give those people one last straw. That's exactly what you do when you plead for the bed-bath-and-bath facilities to stay in the air. You're offering them that straw, that provision. Then some of those people will also choose to stay here. So if Mr Slob says it is not conclusive, then I agree with him. But my analysis is that this is largely due to all those who advocate this kind of provision. They offer people a final straw, and that is why what is important in the letter is that we stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u301	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u302	I told you, we have to stop, because that makes sense. We should not facilitate non-cooperation. This is unfair to those who do accept a judge's ruling. Why should you cooperate if you also receive provisions if you refuse to comply with the ruling of the Dutch judge? This can also have the effect that people try to stretch their stay for a long time, because they hope to qualify for a general pardon; I told you so. That would be really unfair. It could also lead to more asylum seekers moving to the Netherlands. After all, you will even receive a provision if a judge has established that you are not a real refugee. The VVD therefore thinks it is a good agreement that we will close those bed-bath-and-bread facilities in all municipalities. That must be maintained; that is also what we have agreed. We hope that the Secretary of State will negotiate this and secure a proper administrative agreement with the municipalities. At the same time, we are trying to improve the return policy. The more people come back, the better. It is to the benefit of asylum seekers who have been processed that they should come out of the hopeless situation in which they are now sitting. That is why the VVD believes it is wise that we give this group more time to decide whether or not they will participate in their departure. Now one must decide immediately when one appears at the gate. Soon we will have a limited number of weeks to think about this. At that time, it is encouraged to cooperate. This is done under the direction of the Return & Departure Service. We do this not only in Ter Apel, but also in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague, Utrecht and Eindhoven. We are convinced that this will actually mean that a larger group of asylum seekers who have been processed will choose to return. That's what the VVD thinks is winning. But for those who refuse to cooperate, there is no reception facility available. With this, we are building on the administrative agreement that was concluded between the Empire and the municipalities in 2007. It agreed with municipalities that the government would simplify and speed up the asylum procedure. This is in order to clarify as quickly as possible whether they are allowed to stay here, rather than the years of procedures with the associated uncertainty that existed up to that time. Old cases would be completed by means of a "s' that the VVD found a less good idea "one time pardon'. The Reich would also set up a reception site for processed asylum seekers who cooperate in their return. In return, the municipalities would stop the reception of asylum seekers who have been processed and refuse to cooperate in their return. The Empire has kept its share of the bargains. Unfortunately, over the past few years, several municipalities have continued to receive asylum seekers who have been processed, or even set up new reception facilities. Since 2009, sanctions have been lacking in order to remedy this situation. This letter fills the gap. Finally. Following the 2007 governance agreement and within the context of the government agreement, which talks about a restrictive and fair immigration policy and a consistent and effective return policy, the VVD welcomes the outcome of the discussions. Two essential conditions have been met: no reception for those who do not cooperate in departure and a greater commitment to return to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u303	I'd like to talk about the sanctions. There's some kind of fine over the whole thing. There is talk of "for example" a reduction in the integration budget of newcomers. What else is the VVD thinking about? Could this also apply to the WMO household aid funds? I want to know that in concrete terms, because 'for example' is too vague for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u304	There are many money flows from the Empire to municipalities. It says "for example," and we will see what that means in practice. Frankly, I hope that municipalities will actually cooperate and that this will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u305	This has been considered for nine days, so you can't say that the letter is ill-considered. However, this is still vague and subject to two interpretations. From "for example" cutting the integration budget of 15 million, the 400 municipalities will not really be awake. However, I note from the VVD that there is a greater threat in the back pocket. What's the VVD on? Does the VVD exclude the Wmo money? Does the VVD exclude the reduction of household aid and poverty reduction funds if the municipalities do not cooperate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u306	I don't rule anything out, if that's the question. It says "for example." I don't fill anything out, because it says "for example." Minister Asscher said it very nicely during one of the many hours we spent in the Tower. He literally said that there are many money flows from Empire to municipalities. And so it is. We shall see what happens in practice on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u307	I think it's quite a revelation that this idea comes from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u308	Well, the idea comes from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u309	In the part of the reconstruction it is yet another painful detail...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u310	But that has just been corrected by Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u311	... that Minister Asscher, former deputy mayor and even mayor of Amsterdam, has come up with the idea of letting it hang over the negotiations that the Wmo is one of the possibilities of the Empire to cut down municipalities. Mr Zijlstra does not deny that. I mean this very seriously. Or Mr Zijlstra should simply say: no, I do not mean that. Otherwise he says, whispered to that effect by Minister Asscher: the Wmo is an example, for example, of what can be cut short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u312	It is probably to Mr Pechtold's deep disappointment, but it says 'for example' and then one example. It can be broader, because there are many flows of money from the Empire to municipalities, but which ones may be applied will have to show the practice. We're seriously gonna talk to the municipalities in public, but we're not gonna pin it in this or that jar. It says "for example" and we see what the practice shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u313	This is too vague for me. We have a few weeks now, but that can also be a few months or a year of shelter, as long as it's not bed-bath bread, and we have fines. I believe that the part of the fine should be clear, because if you are going to negotiate with the local authorities, the municipalities, they need to know clearly what threat this cabinet is facing. Apparently, Minister Asscher wants to hang over the market that Secretary of State Dijkhoff may threaten to cut short on the Wmo, which is one of the many flows of money to the municipalities. Or is this being denied? I will also ask the rulers themselves in a moment, but if Mr Zijlstra does not answer, it is one of the possibilities on which this coalition is seriously considering cutting short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u314	Mr Pechtold will not like the answer, but it will not be any different. It says "for example" and then we refer to the means of integration. That is also a good example, because it is exactly what was mentioned in the governance agreement in 2007. In addition, there is talk of "for example." I repeat that there are many money flows from the Empire to municipalities. We will see in practice, after the talks with the municipalities, what that will mean. Enforcement is important in this respect because the practice has shown that after 2007, after it first went well, it has come into play. We want to keep that foothold of asylum policy by having no provision available for the group that refuses to cooperate in departure and has clearly indicated it. Then let's see how it works in practice. I think the wording is clear. I can't believe you're not satisfied with her being so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u315	Mr Van Ojik, I had noted you earlier, but I would like to give Mr Klein the floor first. That's what you prefer? Well, then I give the floor to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u316	Well, you, first comes first, huh? Since Mr Zijlstra was at the end of his speech, I would like to return to another subject which is also contained in the letter. Suppose someone is cooperating, which is very positive. After a few weeks of thinking, he'd like to cooperate on his return. If he does not turn back, he may be granted a licence on the basis of the debt criterion, as stated in the letter. Now the problem is that this out-of-debt statement is taking quite some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u317	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u318	The question then is: how long do we have before that? One of the problems is that your application for the out-of-debt criterion can only be assessed when you submit your papers. One of those papers is a note from the embassy saying you can't go back to your country of origin. How long does Mr Zijlstra intend to give these people time to wait until they get an out-of-debt statement or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u319	Let's leave it the way it is now. That's gonna work fine. This has also been indicated by the Advisory Committee. The core of the debt criterion is that people do fully cooperate on departure and do whatever is necessary to return, but that the country of origin does not take them back. Then there's nothing these people can do about it. Then you get a license in this country because it's definitely out of your hands. We have a good procedure for that that works. This letter does not give any reason to amend it. So we're not gonna do that either. We leave that to the professionals, as they call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u320	That is the point, namely that this procedure does not work. With reference to the letter, I refer to the number of applications submitted. Those are the formal applications because you still have applications of your own motion. Of that number, a very large percentage is rejected on formal grounds, in the sense that one does not meet the excess debt criterion. So you're willing to give anyone who's still here during that whole procedure the opportunity to stay in the VBL?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u321	No, that's a bit of a crazy reasoning. If it is found at a given time that, despite the cooperation of a person on his departure, no departure is possible, the person concerned shall be granted a licence on the basis of the out-of-debt criterion. However, it is not a matter of weighing up how many applications are rejected. Otherwise, it would be a fantastic incentive. If everyone goes into the out-of-debt procedure and a certain percentage has to be reached, then we will soon have the tent full. That is not the intention. There is a need for a genuine consideration of whether the person has cooperated. If so, he or she will be eligible. What percentage hangs on to that is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u322	Mr. Van Ojik...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u323	That means that the current deadline for that is no longer at issue for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u324	The procedure for not guilty remains as it is. That doesn't change anything. There is no change in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u325	I think we all need a short lunch break, but I cannot resist asking Mr Zijlstra another question. In his speech several times he took the view that the wider the reception in the Netherlands is, the less likely it is that people actually go back. I've heard him say that several times. At least I can't hear him deny it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u326	Maybe we should get him to confirm that first. Mr Zijlstra, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u327	I was indeed trying to distill out a question. I think I was very clear with Mr Slob when he asked if it was final. I have made it clear that, in my opinion, you are holding that group in that hopeless situation at the moment when you offer this kind of amenities. I don't think that's normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u328	And that reduces the chance of them returning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u329	Yeah, when you hold them, they don't usually return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u330	Exactly! In that case, I think I have done quite a bit of justice to Mr Zijlstra's speech. When I look at the practice, I often see something else. Then I see that for people as long as they are still in the shelter, we have often talked about the Paulus Church, which is still a chance that they can eventually be persuaded to return, while they very often disappear into anonymity when you remove them from the shelter. Then they disappear very often into anonymity, into illegality, as we say. Then you can forget about it, to say it very briefly. Is that not reality and is that reality not contrary to Mr Zijlstra's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u331	No, I think we're closer to each other than sometimes seems. We have chosen this solution precisely because we are trying to give that group some time to think carefully about whether they want to return. I also see the other side of reality, namely that if one refuses to cooperate, there is no provision. That moment, of course, comes at some point. For most people it is very clear very quickly, that can go both ways, with others a little more customization is needed and it will take a little longer. That can take a limited number of weeks, we have talked a lot about it and we are going to see what exactly it will land on in a governance agreement. But the essence is that you have to choose and that if you refuse to cooperate there are no reception conditions for you. I am convinced that if you remove the last straw that people actually or via the government are going to cooperate on departure. Sometimes they will indeed disappear in illegality and often they will go back because they see that the situation in the Netherlands is hopeless and that they are not facilitated by the government in the stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u332	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u333	The question remains whether the moment when you ultimately deny someone the right to use a facility by saying: you do not want to cooperate on your return, so you are now outside, is not the time when the view of what is happening to someone is often gone in all respects. We do not know exactly how many people live in illegality in the Netherlands, but we do know that there are tens of thousands. There is often talk of a hundred thousand. Those are the people we have left on the streets and for whom there is no prospect of return. Surely that must give some thought to the idea that Mr Zijlstra apparently has, namely that if you do not offer shelter you might eventually encourage people to return? Practice doesn't show that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u334	The moment you're a problem in this country as illegal and you don't have any procedures running, we don't want to offer you a reception facility. There are also illegals that we do not know. Maybe they walk past the House of Representatives now, they provide their own livelihoods and sometimes we accidentally run into them. They have also chosen to do so. They have so to speak so as to cross the border from any country. Most of them haven't even started an asylum procedure, they're just here working or whatever. That group is very difficult to understand, but that is not what we are talking about. We are talking about the group that has applied for asylum and has been brought to an end, the group that has been established: you are not a refugee, you must return. We don't have to make facilities available for that group, because if you do, you'll offer them that last straw. The great thing about what we are presenting now is that we get an insight into that group because it now ends up under the direction of the Return and Departure Service. Now we don't, because we sometimes know what's in municipalities or not in bed-bath-bread, but usually we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-3.u335	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. I've heard people talking about hunger. I suggest we suspend for lunch.
