ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Rij. Since it's his maiden speech, I'll make the mood bell ring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u2	Madam President. It's a great honor for me to have my maiden speech here in the Senate today. And then we are talking about taxes, a key issue in politics and in my working life. A theme that has always kept me very close to politics in my work, whether I wanted it or not. And of course I wanted to. In the 1970s I was a student at the Christian Gymnasium Sorghvliet, opposite the Catshuis. I regularly visited the meetings of the House of Representatives in the public gallery. To be honest, the First Chamber wasn't on my retina yet. My father worked at that time at the National Information Service, in particular with the task of informing the Royal House. His office was located at Binnenhof 20. I am talking here about the time of the famous Den Uyl cabinet. In March 1977 I saw, so to speak, that cabinet literally fall. When I arrived at school early in the morning by bike, the journalists were still around the gates of the Catshuis, where that cabinet had been through another night's meeting about fundamental politics. That subject did not survive the Den Uyl cabinet. As editor-in-chief of the school newspaper, I liked to devote a lot of thought to it, whether my fellow students liked it or not. A few months ago, my eldest brother rubbed the following quote under my nose from 2000: "I am a part-timer in politics. I like that. What seems nice to me is going to be in the Senate by my sixties for a number of years." More than fifteen years later, it is time and I hope to be able to serve to do the work as co-legislator as best as possible. I will always keep in mind the role of the First Chamber, considering the draft laws adopted in the Lower House for legality, feasibility, enforcement and compatibility with European and international law. With great interest I look forward to the debates with the government and the other honourable Members. Today and tomorrow, we will be dealing with six legislative proposals dealing with fiscal legislation and policies. A fiscalist licks his fingers off that. However, I must say that there are serious doubts about the diligence of the legislative process. The House of Representatives has three and a half months to study the complex matter and the First Chamber one month. The government has promised to improve on this; we will see it. And then I leave out the winding course of the barely submitted novelle. I focus my contribution on four topics: income policy, the box 3 plan, the fiscal competitiveness of the Netherlands and the balance between legislation and implementation. Today should have been the apotheosis of a grand and compelling tax reform. This is how the Secretary of State for Finance proposed last year. Dreaming on his bike, he must have thought, optimistic as he is, that his name would end up in the history books by the end of 2015 with the tax reform of Wiebes. I see him nodding in agreement!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u3	How different things turned out. What is before us today is not a tax reform by far. It has resulted in an ordinary exchange of interests, the partial return of money to citizens that she was taken first. Let's call it a missed opportunity. In the meantime, that has become an historic statement. In view of the government's replies, the coalition is not responsible for the fact that it has not become a tax reform. It was just that nasty opposition that always did not provide the necessary support. Maybe just a moment of reflection. Why did the government deliberately choose probe rings behind the scenes? Why this fearful attitude? Why has it not dared to present a major sketch of a tax reform, such as Salmon and Supposedly did with the tax exploration for the 21st century? This is a transparent dialogue with society. For example, it could have consisted of the following building blocks: a generic reduction in income tax rates and only two discs, a broadening of the base and a limited number of tax rebates. We call that the social flat tax. But this also applies to a firm vision of the tax on profits. The basis should also be widened and the rate reduced, so that more investment in the Netherlands can be made by companies in the Netherlands. This is good for employment. The cabinet deliberately opted for conversations in the backrooms and then said: there is no support for them anymore. Who can control that? What does tax reform à la Wiebes look like anyway? A little bit of this, a little bit of that. A little bit of tariff reduction in the second and third disk, a little extension of the third disk and an indexing of disks. If we call that the right hand of this cabinet, there is always the inevitable left hand in this cabinet. And yes, the cabinet has now made about all the discounts that matter dependent on income: the general tax discount, the labour discount and the general income-dependent combination discount. As a result, citizens with sometimes very low marginal pressure, over 2%, are cheered up or taxed with very high marginal pressure, 56%. The justification for this mix is that labour supply will increase with the astronomical number of 35,000 jobs. Yes, not next year and the years after, but those are the positive employment effects over decades. This is then sold to the people as if the cabinet created 35,000 new jobs. As a new senator, I wonder what reality I've come into. Indeed, that is the reality of the MICSIM model of the CPB, which has been declared sacred by the cabinet and part of the opposition. Any discussion about the use of that model is impossible, even a nuanced discussion. For an ordinary citizen, this is a rather absurd discussion. You will only be among those 600,000 unemployed and you will be told that a further 35,000 people are going to report to the labour market in the longer term. The first question you ask then is: and what job is there for me and my neighbor? That's right, none. I will come back to that later, but I would like to say the following. The Binnenhof does not create jobs, or it should be about the renovation of the Binnenhof itself. There is still a big objection to the chosen mix. This has to do with the growing income gap between two-earners with children and working single people with children on the one hand and families with children and one breadwinner on the other. The Centraal Planbureau calculated these differences again at the request of eight parties in the Lower House. By using the targeted tax instruments, a single parent with children earning a modal income of €36,000 more on disposable income than a earner with children earning more than €6,000 more on disposable income. Divorced life thus seems to be fiscally stimulated. For the CDA, the end of the use of these targeted fiscal instruments is definitely in sight, all the more so because their use is poor for the income position of older people and fewer and fewer people are unable to make effective use of the discounts because their income is too low and they pay too little tax. It's called the silvering problem. And finally, the public doesn't understand anything about it anymore. Do we really think that the next scene will take place in many Netherlands family on January 1, 2016: "Honey, it's time for you to report to the labour market, because the overall income-dependent combination discount has increased slightly and the labor discount too."? I would like to speak about the proposed modification in box 3. Let me just say that the members of the CDA Group do not see anything in the cabinet's plans to change box 3. Mr Hoekstra already announced during the General Financial Reviews that I would put the knife in box 3. Let me give it a try, with respect to the honourable Member of the animal party. In my group's view, it is quite wrong to include plans relating to the tax year 2017 in the 2016 Tax Plan. We therefore have no message whatsoever from the fact that VVD and PvdA keep each other entangled in a deadly stranglehold here. My group is not alone in its massive criticism of the fact that there is no need for the linking, either legally or budgetaryly. The Council of State and many professors share this view. The explanation given so far for this link on the part of the government is not convincing. My group does not see the link between reducing the burden on labour and increasing the burden on power, especially when the burden on power is a wash. In my group's view, this is purely a political deal between the government parties and a serious test of these proposals is being obstructed by the First Chamber. That's disgusting under state law. My group is therefore pleased that the Hoekstra motion was adopted unanimously in this House. We found the government's reaction to be very economical: "However, the above motion indicates that your Chamber considers this coherence differently. I have shown understanding for this in the debate." It is for the cabinet to hope that the content and scope of this motion will be taken seriously. Our objections to linking the revision of box 3 to this Tax Plan remain. We therefore ask the government once again to decouple the proposals on box 3. We ask the government to submit a new proposal to Parliament in 2016, so that we can discuss the taxing of property income in a fundamental and substantive way, especially now that the Great/Bashir motion has been adopted in the House of Representatives. The government does not have the behavioural effects of the proposals at all. And if they are in the picture, they haven't been told yet. My questions have been answered very evasively. Homework's not finished yet. Can the Secretary of State comment on the alternative routes for box 3, as described by me, with the possible behavioural effects? I must say, I've rarely seen such a poorly thought-out plan. The members of the CDA Group believe that the government has not succeeded in combining two opposite principles of property income tax: the principle of realisation on the one hand, you pay tax only if you receive income or pay capital gains........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In our Income Tax Act, we deliberately chose to levy a fictional fee in 2001. The reason for this was that the Income Tax Act 1964 led to a reduction in tax revenue because, in principle, taxed net income from capital was converted into untaxed capital gains. The principle of realisation did not apply to capital gains; there was no capital gains tax at the time. Well, there was a wealth tax. In 2000, it was decided to abolish the capital tax and introduce a so-called box 3. This simple solution would ensure stable tax revenues for the Empire. Today, that is EUR 4 billion. The percentage of the flat-rate return of 4 was justified by reference to the real risk-free return on Dutch government bonds over a period of 15 years, and not only by the nominal return, taking into account inflation. That's how they came up with that 4%. In short, it is either the fiction or the principle of realization, but not both. The Secretary of State has, in the opinion of the members of the CDA Group, tried in vain to unite the incompatible. What's the biggest problem now? With current low interest rates, only part of investors account for 4%. The explanatory statement shows that very clearly. Around 25% of all taxpayers are in box 3: 3.3 million people. Of this group, more than 2.3 million have a taxable base for savings and investments between €0 and €100,000. In particular, the group invests up to €100,000 mainly in bank accounts and puts the money conservatively in the bank. That's about 60%. The interest rate at the moment is 1%. Let's just say there's 1% inflation. Then you made 0%, but you have to pay 1.2%. This means you're intubating on hard-earned savings. The CDA therefore considers that these investors are not helped by the government's plans. However, the CDA took note with interest, through the novellle, of the proposal to increase the exemption slightly in 2016. That is a small step in the right direction. The proposal for 2017 does not solve so much. Despite the proposed increase to €25,000 and the reduction in the flat-rate return to 2.9% for the group from €0 to €100,000, the tax burden will still be 0.87%. In other words, the prudent saver being more than 60% of the more than 2 million investors is still declining; not by 1.2%, but by 0.87%. That's like having a 40° fever, going to the doctor who gives you a cure and saying, "You have a 40° fever now, but with this medicine the fever drops to 39° and you feel much better." In other words, it doesn't make any sense yet. I'm gonna keep going, because I can tell that the knife isn't enough in the piggy. The government is proposing three discs. In addition to the first disc from €0 to €100,000 there are two other discs: the second disc runs from €100,000 to €1.000,000 with a flat-rate return of 4.7% and the third disc with 5.5% with more than €1.000.000. The members of the CDA Group believe that no investor will really see the connection with the individual situation. These are averages chosen on the basis of completely arbitrary assumptions in terms of time and benchmark. The CDA Group has major objections in principle to this very complicated way of legislation. The charm of the simplicity of the system, as we have known since 1 January 2001, is completely destroyed. Simplicity has been replaced by a complexity with many mathematical formulas that no taxpayer can tie a rope to. I'd like to say, "Welcome to the wonderful world of Willy Carrot Wiebes." It is an absolute illusion to assume that investors, for example, who have more than EUR 1 million in box 3, will not look at legitimate alternatives. Moreover, this group accounts for 25% of the tax revenue of 4 billion, while only 1% of the total number of taxpayers in box 3. This proposal puts tax revenues at risk. The CDA will continue to work for the small saver in 2016 and for a simpler solution than it is now. We will do everything in our power to torpedo this savaged plan before 1 January 2017. In the field of taxation, we see the increasing influence of Brussels and Paris. To date, as many as three proposals have been put forward by Brussels, the European Union or the OECD: the country-by-country reporting, the implementation of the Mother-daughter directive and the Common Reporting Standard. The members of the CDA Group support the international tax policy of this cabinet, but there is still a real "sense of urgency" missing. On the one hand, the Netherlands is right to support measures against tax avoidance and therefore supports the so-called BEPS project. The Netherlands is even at the forefront of this, such as actively approaching developing countries to adapt the general anti-abuse clause or to provide assistance in the context of the capacity building of tax administrations in developing countries. The Netherlands has also taken the lead in the exchange of tax rulings to tax authorities. Can the Secretary of State also imagine a scenario in which companies will be interested in tax rulings to a greatly reduced extent, with which the Netherlands sees one of its crown jewels shine? On the other hand, big interests are at stake for the Netherlands. Foreign investors account for 15% of real employment in the Netherlands. We talk about real, real jobs, 949,000 direct jobs, not indirect jobs. The Netherlands should not be naive. A number of large countries, such as Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy, would very much like to have these jobs within their own national borders. Competition between European countries to attract attractive foreign investors is particularly high. In this sense, the cabinet is right that only hard agreements between EU countries matter. The Netherlands must take great care of its own business. After all, the increasing involvement of Brussels in the field of direct taxation is not without its political interests. The European Commission does go a long way in extending its own powers, such as the use of the instrument of unlawful State aid in the assessment of tax rulings. We also have a point of criticism about the policy that the Netherlands is pursuing with regard to implementation. I am referring in particular to the proposal for the implementation of the Mother-Subsidiary Directive. In our view, two things go wrong in principle. The implementation law goes beyond the directive. In fact, we believe that the interpretation of hybrid loans is even contrary to the directive. In doing so, the nature of a hybrid loan in the tax sense, namely equity, is denied. The outcome is therefore negative. Instead of double non-taxation, which is trying to combat the directive, and with which we would agree, double taxation is now being applied in some cases in situations where interest rates abroad are not or are partially deductible. That is an overkill that was not in Brussels' eyes either, but the Hague apparently did. We are curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. So far, we are not convinced by his answers. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State on this point. With great agreement, we have taken note of the implementation test in this tax package. This Secretary of State is really allowed to write that on his conto. He promised this last year in his letter on the broad approach to the Tax Administration. Tax legislation has been too frequent in recent years in the form of legal measures which have not proved to be effective in terms of implementation. By consistently passing an implementation test per proposal and per measure, the co-legislator is taken into account in the considerations that are being made. Nothing is more harmful to a society than tax legislation which leads to great uncertainties and injustices in its implementation. One point of attention: the executive must not sit on the seat of the legislative authority. Of course, it is still getting used to, but we certainly think that the answer now takes too often and too quickly the argument of implementation to get rid of Parliament's proposals, while its own proposals in terms of implementation are being defended with a dry eye. That's not the point. I will give some examples of this later in the debate, but wait for the Secretary of State's response. I'm gonna finish up. Considering everything, the CDA Group supports the 2016 Tax Plan as it currently stands, as well as the tax package. I can also light up a tip from the shutter. In the novelle we have not been able to discover any very special deviations. For us, the position of workers and families, as well as the position of older people, of business as a driving force for real jobs, and of small savers, are important. As is well known, the CDA has always advocated relief. Citizens have the right to recover part of the burden after seven lean years. That's good for the economy. It will stimulate consumption, as will investment. In terms of wording, we see a first step towards a broader reform in the direction we have chosen. The CDA is against the plan box 3 and will continue to fight it at all times and with all the arguments and means, because the small saver is not helped with that. In addition, we call on the Cabinet to make great haste with the development of a corporate tax strategy, so that we have a robust and fair system that is international proof and allows the Netherlands to be an attractive country and stay for entrepreneurs, both domestic and foreign. After all, they are the basis of our prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rij. Congratulations on your maiden speech in this important debate. I forgive you this time for passing three minutes over the 25-minute speaking time you have announced. It's no coincidence that this speech is about the Tax Plan. After all, you are a tax expert. You studied Dutch law and tax law at the University of Leiden. During the last study, you began your working life as an assistant tax advisor. After graduating in 1986, you became a member of the General Bank of the Netherlands. In 1990, you became a tax advisor at Loyens & Volkmaars in Amstelveen. A year later, you established yourself as an independent tax and financial advisor in The Hague. In 1994, you joined Ernst & Young Tax Advisors, to which you are attached to this day. As a senior partner, you are currently active as Global and EMEIA Leader Private Client Services. Can you still follow it? What does "EMEIA" stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u5	That stands for "Europe, Middle East, India, Africa."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u6	Oh, dear. Well, thank you. As a senior partner, you are currently active as Global and EMEIA Leader Private Client Services. You are chairman of the Regional Partner Forum Belgium-Netherlands, member of the EMEIA Advisory Council and member of the Global Governance Council. In all these years, you have continued to broaden your education by following postgraduate education at the Netherlands Institute for Banking and Securities, Erasmus University, Harvard Business School, Booth School of Business in Chicago, Instituto Empresa Business School in Madrid, and, last year, at Insead in São Paulo. I thought this was in Fontainebleau, but apparently it is also in São Paulo. So it's all over the world. Your political affinity revealed itself at a young age. Reportedly, at the age of 12, you already treated your classmates to a lecture on Abraham Kuyper. Within the CDA you have had a very active career, which started in 1986 in Wassenaar with, consecutively, the creation of the CDJA core, the membership of the city council and the aldermanship. In a turbulent time, in 1999, you became the national chairman of your party, the CDA. About those years you published in 2002 "Thousand days in land politics. Leadership crises in the CDA." Your diaries from that period inspired the book "Planned Coincidence" by Rien Fraanje and Jouke de Vries that appeared in 2010. The publication of that book will have pleased you. You have always kept your party a warm heart, but do not hesitate to make a critical sound when you see reason to do so. You did this, among other things, in your opinion articles, of which you have built up a wide range over the past 25 years, along with your scientific publications on taxation. In recent years, you have also contributed to election programmes of your party and to plans for the future of taxation. That means that you can also contact Mr Wiebes. In those articles, you also put the pen on the nose of the First Chamber. On several occasions, you called upon the Chamber to ask critical questions about the legality, feasibility and enforcement of a bill. You will therefore be pleased that you have been a member of this Chamber since June and can now make a contribution to the important legislative proposals on this subject. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber and I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues and myself to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Rij on his maiden speech. We look forward to a fruitful debate with each other and good cooperation. Before talking about the Tax Plan, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group, I would like to express our deep satisfaction at the successful Climate Summit in Paris. This is the great merit of the French Presidency, which, following the terrorist attacks in Paris, has shown that nothing is impossible if it is made clear that the future of the world, of our planet, and the future of our children and grandchildren are at stake. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed written answers to our questions and through him also his staff and collaborators. It was a spicy job. We now have to make an assessment of the 2016 Tax Plan and later on on the novelle. This is a tax reduction of nearly 5 billion, and it is actually a gross reduction of 7 billion, 1% of gross national product. The 50PLUS Group believes that all Dutch, young and old, should benefit from tax cuts, such as young and old, because they also paid or co-payed to the tens of billions of tax increases from the start of the crisis. Equal tax treatment for workers and the elderly is a question of civilisation and justice. This was also the case with the previous genuinely large tax reforms in 1990 and 2001. After the burden now also the lusts for everyone. Returning what has been taken away, as Mr Van Rij has just said. I support that. This Tax Plan is an outright tax punishment on getting old. This is also contained in the term used by the cabinet, a lifelong tax. It's pure discrimination, discrimination by age. For 50PLUS, the principle of equal treatment is the test of the legality of the proposals. That is the first task of this Chamber. The question is whether this is legitimate. I should like to receive an answer from the Secretary of State to this question of principle. In particular, because the cabinet intends to continue this discriminatory policy, it is necessary to limit and say: until now and no further. The 2016 Tax Plan, once approved, is a precedent because it opens the door wide to further tax cuts only for workers, not to mention partly paid by the elderly. It can't get any weirder. We refer to the letter on the novelle, which once again announces a reduction of 4 billion in income tax, which raises the question of whether it is again limited to a tax reduction on labour, i.e. only for workers. Everything points to this because the novelle letter talks about 15,000 additional jobs and this can only be done effectively through a huge increase in the employment discount of, for example, €1,500. Can the Secretary of State give us a straight answer to this question? We will be discussing this in greater detail next week. The 50PLUS Group will oppose this slide as it stands in the letter, unless the proposals are not yet there is a guarantee that there will be no structural deterioration for the elderly. By the way, there is no tax on labour in Box 1. It might be good to say that again here. In box 1 the income from labour is taxed and according to the law that is income from present and past labour. They are therefore considered to be totally equal by law. If you see the system before us in an international context, then this Dutch tax policy with discounts, also with the discrimination between single and double households, is a policy that is unprecedented in Western Europe and therefore does not exist there either. We had asked for an international overview on both points. We have not yet received that. Can the Secretary of State still provide this for the treatment of the novelle and otherwise as soon as possible afterwards? We do not regard it as a separate criminal burden for the elderly in the 4 to 5 billion, as has been said. We already had four senior taxes. This is number five. After the Bolasting, the increase in the income limit for the income-dependent contribution from €32,000 to €50,000 in 2011, the Wul tax of 4 % in 2013 and now also the increase of 0.65% of the income-dependent contribution to the care premium, we now have number five, the discriminatory Rutte-Dijsselbloem-Wiebelasting tax, a shameful tax. So the stacking goes on. For the assessment, we choose a completely different perspective from the cabinet and look at the 2015 and 2016 Tax Plan together and at other measures outside these tax plans, such as the income-related contribution. This income-dependent contribution is, moreover, a disguised additional income tax of 5.5% for older people andzzp'ers. Indeed, the 2016 Tax Plan improves the purchasing power of older people by 1.2% once, but that brings the total purchasing power to zero, from -1.2% to zero. This is due to other measures outside the 2016 Tax Plan, especially due to the income-dependent contribution that leads to a structural decrease in purchasing power by 0.7% for almost all of the elderly's incomes, including the lower ones. The other broad angle of the 50PLUS Group shows a staggering and embarrassing picture of reality as it is, at least in our eyes. We look at a number of things at the same time: more years next to one year, fiscal and non-fiscal together and the distinction between structural and one-off. It seems so simple, but for the cabinet that is an almost insurmountable task. What are we doing? We include the 2015 Millions Note and see the exclusive structural burden increases for the elderly of no less than 600 million decided in autumn 2014. These included a reduction in the old-age discount of 200 million, abolition of the old-age allowance of 135 million and an increase in the income-related contribution of 0.65% for 275 million. A structural burden increase for the elderly only of 610 million, which was decided last year. The reduction in the reduction in the old-age discount, not least, the reduction in the reduction in the old-age discount! This is how we are doing with our €54 twice via the fourth letter of amendment and the novelle, fortunately the structural reduction of last year's old discount of €83 will be completely reversed as of 2017. There is even a small increase of €25 left. But there is still a structural increase for the elderly of 400 million from last year. It would have ordained the cabinet to reverse the other two decisions. Now that that has not happened, this increase of 400 million for older people will continue to exist after 2016. Despite all one-time events for 2016. In this context, the cabinet speaks of intensifying the elderly discount that makes a significant part of the purchasing power repair in 2016 structural. I call this a simple reversal of an earlier reduction. That's not an increase. This reversal shows that the purchasing power repair was patchwork and that it had to be structural, as we asked. We are of course pleased with the two small steps, but that is just not taking away what was threatening to be taken away. Our group continues to demand a whole structural increase of €220 and not just half of €108 that is now available. After all, the elderly discount in 2017 simply drops by €112, a tenner per month. So we know that already. How big is the decline in purchasing power of €112 tax increases, I ask the Secretary of State. Is he ready to say that this is being repaired structurally in the 2017 Tax Plan and not once again with that €112? So don't come up with that for the second time, because then we drag the consequences of a fundamental wrong decision from year to year. The Secretary of State shouldn't want that. I would like an answer to that. Every year, the 50PLUS Group will ask for an overall picture: fiscal and non-taxal, structural versus one-off and a three-year review, which will include the year before and after, otherwise we will not get out of the puzzles. So we also want to know the impact on the purchasing power of older people in the non-fiscal field. I mentioned, for example, the increase in the income-dependent care premium. The 50PLUS Group has demanded a proportional share in the structural 5 billion reduction in charges in the House of Representatives, which has not been achieved at all. The Nagel motion was adopted in the Senate. It wasn't carried out. I would say: not yet, because the motion remains above the market, as does the Schalk motion, which we continue to support. The elderly have received structural burdens and a one-off repair in 2016, precisely as a result of previous burdens. The picture for the workers is in total contrast, with only increasing structural burden reliefs. According to the Cabinet, this will continue in the future. In two small rounds, 90 million and 300 million more have been transferred to the workers from the general row of the disk reduction, which is 0.3% less. In these two rounds, only 200 million are not taken away from the elderly, but they get nothing from them. That is all they have to expect. In fact, according to the Cabinet, they are not entitled to a structural tax reduction at all. This is the hard consequence of the government's belief that the workers provide prosperity and their own future prosperity. Older people are an exclusive tax object in the cabinet's view: they can make it, and only there. During the General Reviews in the Lower House, Rutte mentioned the 5 billion for the workers a choice. The cabinet announced that it would continue to pursue this policy of exclusive reduction of labour taxation. The 2015 and 2016 Tax Plans contain a total structural tax reduction of over 3 billion by increasing the labour cut. In 2017, another 0.5 billion will be added. In the period 2014-2017 the employment discount was increased by €1,224 to €3,321 and the elderly discount by, please note, €30 to €1063. That is a difference in three years of almost €1,200. We should also look at Table 5 of the note following the report to the House of Representatives, and Tables 13 and 14 of the response to the First Chamber of the European Parliament, to the astronomical difference between the total of all tax rebates for workers and the elderly in 2017. In that year, workers receive €5.292 more discount than the elderly with an income of €20,000, and €6.437 more discount with an income of €40,000. For workers, this is a 100% discount on the tax payable at an income of €20,000, and a 46% discount on an income of €40,000. These absurd differences show the bankruptcy of this discriminatory income tax. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? In this context, it is appropriate to quote the answer of the Secretary of State at the General Financial Reviews in the Senate to our questions on the difference in treatment of workers and the elderly. He said: "The workers of today are the elderly of later. If you now facilitate it in building prosperity (...) then you also help the future elderly. (...) It is not just a question of distribution at the moment. It is also a question of building prosperity towards the future. There were great differences. They came to light in August. They didn't look so pretty. The cabinet has seized the firm call for purchasing power repair for 2016, which sounded in August. The letter of amendment added another 100 million for 2017. Mr Van Rooijen has indicated that this is not enough. I get that from his perspective, but if the wrist stick goes more to one side, I'm gonna lose jobs elsewhere. That doesn't exactly help the support." The Secretary of State used the fine terms "job test" and "democracy test" across the street. Mr Van Rij looks at me: I did not know that these were tests in fiscal law. It does not benefit the principle of carrying capacity as a test. The Minister of Finance defended the reduction in working hours in the same debate as a more effective way of reducing the wedge, because it applies only to the workers and is good for employment. According to the Secretary of State, the reduction in income tax burden is about the choice or tax benefits given in the active or inactive life of people. He pointed out that I think, in fact, that there should be no tax difference between workers and non-workers. The cabinet does not agree with that in principle. Working people work and create prosperity. And what do the elderly do, I wonder. So I don't agree with him. Table 16 of the reply shows, in response to our questions, that the elderly pay more tax on all incomes than the workers. That table was drawn up at our request, excluding the AOW premium. After all, the AOW premium is not a tax but an old-age insurance. There is a very impure debate on the AOW premium. Because the workers pay AOW contributions, the elderly would also have to pay them, some say. I would like to point out that at the time we, the elderly people today, paid AOW premium for the AOW of our parents, who had never paid AOW premium for it. So we were so supportive with our parents. The elderly now receive the well-deserved AOW for which they have worked hard for 40 years. They would probably have to pay AOW premium under the flag of a tax. The increase in the employment discount is now partly defended for the first time with the argument that the AOWers do not pay an AOW premium. I think that's been the case since the AOW institution, but okay. This is evident from page 22 of the response to the First Chamber. I quote the Secretary of State: "The graphs and tables show that the tax rebates for taxpayers under the AOW age are higher because full tax and contribution obligations have been assumed. On the other hand, AOW beneficiaries are no longer subject to contributions to the AOW and the amount of the tax rebates takes this into account." More than just a bill, I'd like to say. Can the Secretary of State explain this further? In reply to our questions in Table 16 on page 27 of the same statement of reply, it is precisely because of the much higher reduction in working hours that workers are actually going to pay less of the AOW premium. So the elderly would have to pay the AOW premium. I call that the reversed world. Moreover, in response to the questions we have asked, Table 11 of the note on the report to the First Chamber shows that the elderly pay no less taxes than the workers. On the contrary, they pay more, and even more if you also count the income-dependent contribution of 5.5%, which only the elderly pay. That's another €1,100 to €2,200 for an income of €20,000 or €40,000 respectively. The difference becomes even greater if you make the comparison total and count the unpaid benefit of the care premium for the employee. It is paid by the employer. This is another €610 to €1,329 with an income of €20,000 or €40,000 respectively, as shown in Table 12 of the same note. I come to the principle of acceptance. Over the years there has been an increasing gap in income tax treatment of single and double households and between non-AOW'ers and AOW'ers; the cabinet prefers to talk about workers and non-working people, because that is what it has to do to defend the tax on labour. It also talks about the active and inactive; it is rather derogatory to describe older people as inactive and inactive. In the Lower House and in the Senate at the General and Financial Reviews, this difference has been discussed in detail. In the Senate, motions have been adopted on each of the two subjects. They share the concern that the gap is already large but is getting bigger and bigger. Here too, the argument is used that it has grown that way. But it is never wrong to build in a moment of reflection, and the Senate is ideally the place to do so, especially now that the legislative proposal provides for a substantial increase in differences and is increasingly at odds with the principle of capacity. It must be clear to the cabinet that the two motions are still on the table. The Nagel motion asked for a proportionate part of the structural tax reduction. It didn't come at all. Why not? It is remarkable, moreover, that a motion not tabled in the Senate is carried out at the novelle and not the two motions accepted here. It's possible. I could give a detailed account here of the principle of capacity, also in relation to the principles of prosperity and equality which the Minister and the Secretary of State put forward here in November. I am glad that, at least in response to our questions, we now know how the cabinet views income tax. Both leaders rightly note that we differ fundamentally and their defence has not convinced me at all, on the contrary, strengthened me in the idea that we are totally on the wrong track. Even more so, income tax is not the way to become an instrument of employment policy and labour market policy. It's going to be a handout tax with more and more random political deals. The end of a truly pure income tax comes into sight. Because there are no more principles behind it, everything is possible and justifiable: the delusion of the day prevails. You can turn on all buttons, sometimes the ruler also uses that word, although I think it is a terrible word, but that aside, it becomes a sintering system with a high Christmas tree content. Please give me an answer. The result is Mr Van Rij mentioned that the left side of the story leveling with further strengthening the so-called second progression: the effect of falling discounts as income is higher, income-dependent discounts. The first is, of course, tariff progression. Leveling also leads to a strengthening of the so-called third progression: income-dependent schemes that decrease as income increases. Almost everything becomes income-dependent, fortunately the AOW is not. I mentioned this in 1977, just before the elections when I was still Secretary of State, all the problem of cumulative marginal pressure. I saw that the CDA also this evening on the questions raised by Mr Van Rij, who pointed out that the marginal pressure is between 2% and 56%. You don't see that pressure in the disk rates. Disk rates show what it looks like, not what it is. The cabinet recognises that the principle of carrying out the capital is an important pillar of wages and income tax, but adds directly: the 5 billion package does not change that. The 50PLUS Group asks the Secretary of State to present a study report on the principle of load in income tax before 1 September 2016. Does he want to commit to this? We now come to three tax proposals and we have the following questions on which we expect a clear answer from the ruler. First of all, the much discussed elderly discount. What is the policy of the cabinet for the elderly discount and especially the one up to €35,000? We have a strong impression that the cabinet wants to gradually reduce this reduction and that the reduction of €83 was the first step. Is that right? Can it be confirmed that the reduction will not be further reduced, especially in view of the ever higher employment discount? Is the ruler willing to return the old-age discount above €35,000 of just €70, which you can call a tip to the level of at least €150? We would like to point out that when the Law was introduced in 2013 as compensation for the 4% increase in the rate of the first disc, the elderly discount was increased from €762 to €1.032. For income above €35,000 a discount of €150 has been introduced. In addition, the rate of the reduced income-related contribution was reduced. The 50PLUS Group is of the opinion that there can be no question of such compensatory measures being temporarily increased for permanent 4% by gradually reversing those compensations, as happened with the €83. Please give me a clear answer. Two steps have now been taken to reverse the structural reduction of €83. On balance, the elderly discount thus increases by €108: almost half of the €220 temporarily. The 50PLUS Group also demands that the remaining €112 be structural in order to prevent the discount from falling again by €112 in 2017. Otherwise, the next repair will be announced in 2017. But the elderly do not want to be treated in the same way as this year, when next year the cabinet will look again at the need for a one-off repair of purchasing power for the elderly in the context of what is so beautifully called a balanced distribution of income. We point out that in 2016 workers will receive the higher labour discount, but in 2017 you will no longer see this as an improvement in purchasing power. I now come to the elderly allowance. Here it is avenged that the decision to abolish was taken last year and has thus become a definite fact for the Cabinet and the Secretary of State. But it is never too late to reconsider and at least debate it. We continue to advocate that the abolition of the elderly allowance should not continue. That is an exemption for box 3 that applies only to people with only AOW or AOW with a small pension. These elderly people are getting caught hard. They certainly fall significantly on a double house: €250 to €500 structuralally. But even worse is that they lose the rent payment of almost €4,000 at once, permanently. Is the ruler prepared to cancel the abolition of the elderly allowance? The Tax Office cannot be the problem because in any case the elderly will know for sure that the elderly's allowance will be maintained at the end of the 2016 final attack and they will get the overpaid back. If the ruler is not prepared to cancel the abolition of the elderly allowance, we ask him whether he is prepared to postpone the abolition for at least one year and whether he wants to look at a gradual phasing-out. In any case, what we are calling for is a reduction in the impact of the abolition of the old-age allowance on the rent payment, through a more gradual reduction of the supplement when the capital limit is exceeded. Once again, we are asking for a separate compensation scheme for the loss of the rent payment. These are 20,000 elderly people who lose €4,000 net each year. The letters about this are now in the mailbox of these people and they immediately feel it in January: €300 per month less. Surely you can't do that to these people, especially if there's 4 billion for the workers? We urge the cabinet to make a special concession: an increase in the capital limit for the rent surcharge to €41.000. Please give me an answer. Finally, the third proposal we want to discuss: the increase in the low IAB rate in 2016 which was decided in 2014. The Minister decided to increase the premium by 0.65%. It is, as has been said, a burden increase of 275 million for older people with a negative purchasing power effect of 0.7% for all incomes up to €54,000. The only motivation is to improve the treasury. That can't be true, can it? The rate for the income-dependent contribution for the elderly was deliberately reduced when the Law was introduced and is now being increased again. The increase could increase even further. The lower rate is still 1.25% I ask the Cabinet to say that it will not increase the reduced rate to the high rate. Next year, the 50PLUS Group wants to try to amend the Health Insurance Act in such a way that in future the Minister can change the existing 1.25% band between the reduced and normal rate only by law or by General Measure of Management and not by a simple decision. We will also try next year to ensure that the rate of 5.5% for the income-dependent contribution is reduced again. I'm finishing up, but the next thing I know, I gotta get out of here. The elderly have not had a proportionate share of the 5 billion in tax cuts. They have been shipped off with an embarrassing one-off tip of €137, which is €11.41 per month. On the other hand, workers receive a permanent election gift of €1,200, which is €100 per month. And from 2017 onwards, the older people will permanently pay €112 more; that is almost a tenner per month more. So we will continue to fight for a proportionate part. The cabinet should be deeply ashamed. The 2016 Tax Plan together with 2015 is a punishment for getting old. The 50PLUS Group holds the VVD and the PvdA responsible for this senior sentence. Older people's discrimination does not stop. Was it here on 17 November, at the General Financial Reviews, another five to twelve Mr Schalk spoke about this now it is five to twelve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Van Rij on his maiden speech. I enjoyed his contribution. The answer to the question of whether you are getting hot or cold on the tax plan under discussion depends on whether you share the underlying economic analysis and agree with the policy consequences that are associated with it. The Christian Union Group has doubts about this Tax Plan on the basis of this analysis framework. I do not want to rush into technocratic mode by providing a purely instrumental weighting for the various fiscal measures. My group needs a more reflective contribution to this debate. I will make this contribution on the basis of four questions: is the Tax Plan justified, is it realistic, is it green and is it just? Is the tax plan justified? The economic picture outlined in the 2016 Tax Plan is steeped in optimism. Fortunately, there is also much to be thankful for. The Dutch economy, for example, teaches us last Friday's CPB December estimate, grows by 2% this year and next year by 2.1%. Those are nice, but also fragile figures. As my group argued during the General Financial Reviews of a month ago, this optimistic picture can be accompanied by a picture of continued concern. Unemployment in our country remains at an unacceptablely high level: there are 600,000 unemployed, almost half of whom are long-term unemployed. The international economic and political scene offers a confusing spectrum of uncertainty, threat of terror and backlash. The ISIS terror once again shows that investment in security, justice and defence must not be left behind. The flow of refugees places our country with immense challenges; the Minister of Finance even indicated that the welfare state is at stake. All these developments have their impact on our economy and our financial stability. In this highly uncertain context, the Christian Union Group does not consider it self-evident to allocate EUR 5 billion in relief. Certainly, much of the Dutch population has been asked for over the past seven years and the tendency to do what back is understandable, but just as things are getting better, we should not fall into old procyclical mistakes, even when the election year is approaching. After all, we do not have the money for tax relief on the shelf, but we simply need to borrow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u9	I'd like to know if I heard it right. Is the Christian Union now calling for the tax not to be reduced in relation to the huge flow of asylum seekers? That money must be spent on asylum seekers. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u10	No, you didn't. That would be very disappointing for me too. I am trying to show that the international political and economic context is very uncertain and that it is right to ensure that we have sufficient financial resources to bring our country together and invest in all kinds of facilities that are precisely countering these threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u11	Mr Ester is now expressing something else about all these setbacks. I have just heard him mention the enormous influx of asylum seekers as one of those setbacks. I'm missing it in his answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u12	I do not see the influx of asylum seekers as a setback, but as a fact of life that we must do something about. We have to take these people in, and that's just gonna cost us money. If you spend 5 billion, you'll have to finance the shelter in a different way. We just need money for that. We are not ashamed of that; that is our moral duty. We therefore see that our EMU debt is not below the 60% standard and that our structural budget deficit is rising. The Council of State is right to ring the bell on this. The latest CPB estimate shows that the structural budget deficit is rising rapidly, from 1.3% in 2015 to almost 2% in 2016. The Netherlands Bank (DNB) provides for a structural deficit that is even higher, up to 2.5%, in 2017. DNB also points out that economic growth is above potential growth this year and in the coming years. The logical question that comes with this is how necessary it is to distribute a EUR 5 billion loaned relief to boost the economy in 2016. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? The Christian Union Group is inspired by Joseph's Old Testament story. This viceroy of Egypt made sure that the grain barns were filled during the years of abundance, so that the land was well able to withstand the famine that followed. This policy can serve as an example to the Netherlands. Just as the Dutch economy is getting better, we need to raise our buffers - we need to keep the grain barns filled - so that we can cope with storms ahead. My group must be convinced that the 5 billion package will make our country truly stronger in the long term, with public finances having to be taken into account. Moreover, the benefits are unevenly distributed, on which I shall say more in a moment. There is no fundamental reform of our tax system. There was no political space for that. What is now in the pipeline are some well-meant measures for making work pay more. In doing so, verbally, there is a strong commitment to the jobs created by the Tax Plan: that is 35,000, to be precise. That is actually a very modest number, given the level of unemployment in our country and the amount of 5 billion in relief. It shows that tax incentives for labour market participation by stimulating labour supply are far less effective than in earlier years. De novelle underlines this conclusion once again. The shifts in the novelle lead to 0.0% additional jobs. That is a striking result. My group, along with many other parties, looked forward to a reform of our tax system, which is not one-sidedly based on the primacy of paid labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u13	May I draw Mr Ester's attention to the letter from the cabinet, in which it announces additional measures? One of these measures is a possible extension to the local tax area. If the preliminary draft is submitted in time and the tax is levied in a neutral manner, as is planned, it can create more than 20 000 jobs in structural terms. Can Mr Ester take that into account in his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u14	I'm about to go into the technique, but these are a few as-dan questions that aren't going to happen right now. I am now basing myself on the calculations that have been made. That is the striking percentage of 0.0. As I said, my group was looking forward to a reform of our tax system, a system which is not based unilaterally on the primacy of paid work, but also has an eye for those who take responsibility for caring for children, care for the care of the chronically ill and the disabled, who find a good balance between individual and household and who take the greening and sustainability of our economy seriously through the right tax incentives. That was not the case, and the Christian Union Group regrets it. The Secretary of State himself called it a missed opportunity. And in view of the rapidly increasing structural budget deficit, this cabinet also gave away the much-needed lubricant for a system review in its days. Does the Secretary of State still have the ambition to attempt a thorough reform of the system in the remaining cabinet period? Can we expect another initiative from him or does he rest? If the Secretary of State wishes to take up the reform glove again, we call on him and the cabinet to carry out a more decisive direction. It is not enough to allow parties to bid against each other on a fiscal basis and then to note that it is becoming very crowded at the cash counters. This new style of tax policy has the advantage of transparency, but also the disadvantage of visible political impotence. The substantive and non-procedural direction must make a difference here. My second point is this: is the Tax Plan realistic? What stands out in the examination of the Tax Plan in the Lower House is the decisive role played by the CPB in the implementation of amendments. Mr Backer has just gone into it. Maybe the First Chamber is the right place to comment on this. I am not saying this to criticize the CPB, my group has genuine respect for our national mathematicians. They are probably the first to stress that their figures should not be absolute. The way in which The Hague is now working on the results of the CPB calculation models does not help the debate. First of all, we must realise that this is a labour supply model, the MICSIM model. On the basis of certain assumptions regarding the operation of tax parameters, this offer will increase or decrease. It is not therefore a question of creating additional jobs, it is a question of extra hours that people want or do not want to work on the basis of empirically determined demand elasticities. The path sequences are first visible in the long term. Structural labour supply models are difficult to cope with involuntary unemployment, and so are the CPB models. This is, after all, an involuntary supply restriction which runs counter to the freedom of choice assumption of the offer models themselves. The underlying data, according to recent studies by the CPB itself, originate from the period 2006-2009. Especially in the years after, unemployment rose. The low impact of involuntary unemployment in the CPB calculations stems from the low number of unemployed in the dataset during the period used. This means that the pre-calculation models are failing in a period of relatively high unemployment, as at present. The round of written questions showed that the CPB has more recent figures, but is not able to analyse them. Would the Cabinet, I ask the Secretary of State, ask the Planning Bureau to update the models with more up-to-date data? This would greatly improve the value of the calculations and the quality of the debate. Armed with this knowledge, we need to deal with the CPB's job calculations much less binding on the political weighting of fiscal measures. And again, Mr. President, the Planning Bureau will be the first to confirm this. So we shouldn't put the Planning Bureau in the wrong position. Politics remains political, models remain models. But even if the number of 35,000 jobs were correct, this would be a very low return on the relief package. Lots of money for few jobs. Structurally, this is more than €140,000 per job per year. In 2016, 7 000 additional jobs were created, or more than €700,000 per job. May I ask the Secretary of State for a response to these calculations? Is the tax plan green? My group welcomes the climate agreement concluded last weekend in Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u15	I listened with great interest to Mr Ester's statement on the CPB model. I support his relativization of it. Is the sum he makes at the end of his speech not an artificial sum? He's talking about an offer model. You can't just let go of that calculation, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u16	It is one of two: you agree to a tax reduction package of EUR 5 billion. An important argument in this respect is that 35,000 jobs. Then I'm allowed to divide one number by the other, right? You will undoubtedly have done the same yourself when considering the effectiveness of that investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u17	Partly, but I am stronger on the line you argued for, namely that the model indicates the direction in which this leads to job creation. The exact number you have to relativize, that you also have to relativize with the additional package. That's why I didn't think the conclusion was that you're going to share it. But, Mr President, I have heard what Mr Ester is saying about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u18	Thank you. I have just come to a subject that you will be even more interested in, Mr Backer, namely whether the Tax Plan is green. As I said, my group welcomes the climate agreement concluded last weekend in Paris. The climate is urgent and the predatory construction on Creation is large. The Netherlands must also make every effort to make the battle for a low-carbon sustainable economy. Greening our production and consumption must be a priority of the first order. Our tax system can play an important leverage role. My group is grateful to the Secretary of State for the overview he has given at our request of fiscal greening incentives that our country knows. This shows that the 2016 Tax Plan is not overflowing with ambition. The complex story surrounding the re-launch of the coal tax exemption for electricity generation does not make it any easier. The far too high ceiling in the emissions trading system and the resulting far too low price for CO emissions are a major obstacle to a vigorous greening process. Although the survey shows a series of fiscal greening measures, the State Secretary points out that many measures do not actually determine the environmental benefits. Of course you can't. Here too, the lack of a thorough tax review presents a balanced and effective system of fiscal greening incentives. The Christian Union Group wants much more ambition and determination in terms of greening and sustainability. And then the final question: is the Tax Plan fair? Is there a fair distribution of the sweet that is distributed among the population? Based on the current state budget and the 2016 Tax Plan, the government spends 10.6 billion more in 2016 than it comes in. This is converted €622 per inhabitant, or €2,500 for a family with two children. However, EUR 5 billion, or €300 per inhabitant, is allocated to distribute. That money is also distributed unequally among those same inhabitants. While two-year-olds with two children can quickly count on about €1,500, a single-earner family with two children stays at €700. In view of these figures, it is incomprehensible how the cabinet deals with the Schalk motion. I would like a response from the Secretary of State on how he establishes the relationship between the Tax Plan and the Schalk motion. Older people tend to have to do it with a plus between €100 and €200 per person My group also calls for attention to be paid to chronically ill and disabled people, two vulnerable groups which we rarely see in government statistics. Two groups which are financially affected by the disappearance of income support measures. Can the Secretary of State indicate why chronically ill and disabled people are excluded from tax? So we are not only dealing with a tax plan where what is responsible for tax policy is to ask serious questions about the risks associated with spending, but also about the fairness of the relief granted. After seven lean years, our real GDP will only be back at the level before the 2008 crisis. During these years of crisis, cuts and increases in costs have required much of the Dutch population. The groups whose purchasing power is the most backward are the single-earners, the elderly and the benefit recipients. These are precisely those groups that will be the least affected by the next year of the cabinet. Would it not have been more just, I would ask the Secretary of State, now that the reform of the system has gone beyond the political horizon, to be satisfied with a targeted purchasing power repair? Then we would have been much less finished. We would have had to borrow less from the taxpayers of the future: our children. I'd like a reaction to that. I'm closing up. It is clear that the Christian Union Group is critical of the 2016 Tax Plan. We are questioning the extent of the reduction of charges without a reform of the tax system itself. Just as things are getting better, we need to fix the roof. It's rained long enough. The sweetness that the cabinet is now spreading is mainly reaching workers and two-earers. Paid labour, apparently that's what it's all about. A worker, carers, chronically ill and disabled people are outside the tax field. The chances of making our economy more sustainable, of creating, are not being sufficiently grasped. Why not use the money in the renewed debate on tax reform, which will undoubtedly be held in the cabinet formation in a thick year's time? Then we can really make the Netherlands stronger. With the 2016 Tax Plan, economic and electoral opportunism is celebrating. My group has, in summary, doubts as to whether this Tax Plan is justified, realistic, green and fair. We urge the Secretary of State to remove this doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Rij on his fantastic maiden speech. I honestly thought it was a good story. Unfortunately, I did not understand the logic of the final conclusion that the CDA is going to vote in favour of the Tax Plan, but Mr Van Rij has promised me that he will explain that to me one of these days. We must not talk about it today, but I will take a point from the letter at the novella which has yet to be approved by the House of Representatives. After a number of years of demolition policy, this cabinet now also begins with the physical destruction of the Netherlands. Ten coal power stations will be nominated to be closed to save this shit tax plan that we can deal with today. Among them three brand new coal plants which have just been built for a sum of 4.5 billion. I do not know if VVD'ers dare to open the newspaper at all during the last week, so I quote myself randomly from the submitted documents in that in general some reserved Financial Daily last week. They're already being censored, so I dare repeat them here: "VVD is completely lost. Never again VVD!" "4.5 billion capital destruction of coal power stations, every logic is lost in this political cow trade." "Ideology triumphs again. It's a retarded capital destruction." I would add that in modern coal-fired power stations like this, no soot is released at all, but only C0 and water, as is the case with all humans and animals. It's absorbed by plants. A cycle that can be contained with elementary knowledge of chemistry. Let me continue with the 2016 Tax Plan itself. In recent times, some numbers have been randomly put forward to give the impression that the average working year will be wealthy. An amount of 5 billion would be available for distribution. Nothing could be further from the truth. I would like to invite both the State Secretary and my colleagues to take up the Millions Note and look at Table 2.3.1 on p. 14 of the Annexes: the table of tax and premium receipts. There is a sentence below that table: "Policy measures will, on balance, reduce revenue to €0.1 billion in 2016.' One tenth billion still sounds a little bit, but when you look at the table, you can see that that's the rounding of 78 million. Endogen will increase tax and premium revenue by as much as 8 billion next year. What do you mean I'm asking for relief? What is given away with one hand is brought back in with the other hand. The total weight increase is almost as large as the slight load relief that is in it. We are not talking about the fact that taxes have already increased by 15 billion in recent years. Across the street, my colleague called it "a cigar from his own box," and rightly so. Now there is never anything to divide up in citizens' tax plans at all. At the most, the citizen is less squeezed. The fact that the thumbscrews for the tax and contribution payer will not be loosened by the end of next year is already apparent from my comment just now and I will make it clear in the course of my speech. If the public saw that the government would handle its hard-earned money carefully, there would undoubtedly be a basis for support. However, there is no such basis, and it does not get any better with the examples of capital destruction that I have just mentioned. While at the same time the country is flooding with asylum seekers and the billions to Brussels, Greece, development aid and subsidies continue to flow generously, last week the Nibud report on Money Affairs in the Practice reports that high healthcare costs are increasingly causing payment problems. Higher care costs and high fixed charges. Almost a billion in 2016 are going to increase those care premiums according to the table I just quoted through policies of this government and another billion endogenouss. Together, 2 billion increases in healthcare contributions. It is striking that the payment problems of citizens have not been caused by a sloppy administration or over-utilization, the Institute says. No, higher fixed charges. Many older people are also at the limit of their financial opportunities. The current Tax Plan is already a result of cow trafficking without a novelle, while the neomarxist approach to box 3 is appreciated by virtually no one and the VVD Group creates the cold sweat on the forehead in connection with the ever-closer elections. In this underplay, where the result of the back room meeting is already known, everyone is trying to hit some picket poles today. Before specifying my objections to this plan, I repeat my point that we should not pay taxes in order for the government to have some hobbies that society should change. You pay taxes because the government, without waste, has a number of essential tasks to perform, no more and no less. On the one hand, we see that essential tasks such as ensuring the security of citizens are not properly carried out, on the other hand, we see a huge waste by allowing unlimited asylum seekers to enter, who we know will continue to spend many years, generations, on the budget, and we see billions of environmentally cost-effective measures with zero effectiveness. In recent weeks, reluctantly, both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister admit that the PVV is simply right in terms of asylum influx, but measures? For now! None of this is conducive to tax morale. What is also not conducive to the Netherlands and to tax morals is that a single parent with two children at the minimum wage, of a gross wage of €20,000 net, is almost €29,100, while at the same time a single earner on a modal level with €36,000 gross remains €26,800 below the line. I will take these figures from a CPB note dated 23 October, which you are undoubtedly familiar with. As I understand it, there has also been a lot of quotes in the House of Representatives. In general you can say that the difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage, gross €36.000 and €20,000, is almost nil under the line due to the leveling urge of this cabinet. There are many more examples of bizarre relationships. For example, for household households, the tax burden is indeed much higher than for other households. At one and a half times a household has €8,000 less to spend per year. This is caused solely by the huge progression in income tax, of which the mad system of supplements is part, i.e. the leveling party of the Labour Party. This tax plan could have done something about that. Quod nun! If the purpose of this plan was to promote work, it did not succeed. If we look at simplifying the system, we are only further away from home. A missed opportunity. I come to my next objection to the current plan. These are the increases in excise duties on soft drinks, beer and even water, not to mention carved tobacco. It is the third year in a row that I am making a point here that increases in excise duties on fuels and beverages are detrimental to the entrepreneurs in the border region. Middlemen up to 50 kilometers from the border, as far as they are left, are already seeing many people in their surroundings turning to hospitable shops across the border for drinks, petrol and soon their shag. With the planned increase, that will only become more. The entire middle position in the border area is thus systematically turned upside down. The Dutch excise duty on beer, for example, is already four times higher than in Germany. The price difference on a litre of petrol is already about €0.30 per litre. It is time for a drastic reduction in excise duties to create employment in areas where it is not already flourishing. That doesn't make the state any less, but more. I'll join the elders. I have already said this in the general financial considerations because of this cabinet. Also in 2016, the more than 700,000 pensioners will give up purchasing power for the eighth year in a row. That's really inappropriate. Older people with a small pension who happen to be in need of care too, if they can still get it, will make the most of it. Pensioners have already been given it for their choice by this cabinet and in the next ten years a further 5% reduction in purchasing power will be added as a result of the new pension rules. The PVV believes that something really needs to be done about this. The repair in the novelle, which we have yet to deal with, is nothing more than delivering a pubic patch. I'll be on box three. About box 3 was and is complained stone and leg. No saver got that flat-rate return of 4%. You don't even get one percent on the couch these days. You'd say you'd adjust that flat-rate return. But this government does not miss a chance to make the tax system even more complicated than it already is. All taxpayers complain about a fictitious return, then we throw a few fictions on top. That is to say, a fictitious distribution by investment categories and, on top of that, fictitious returns per investment category. Has the AEX index fallen from 701 to 460 points from 4 September 2000 so far? Well, then that cannot be the right index. A new fiction on top of it: "You also invest abroad? then we can use an index that suits the taxlifter better." All this because the new "Capital" of the neo-Marxist Piketty had to be surpassed by this VVD State Secretary. Now the really rich people are in box 2 and not in box 3, but this cabinet is about the imagery, for the stage. It's a bizarre display. And so we are now faced with the situation that the grocery store that sold his shop and wants to live on the proceeds for a few more years because it hasn't built up a pension is considered by the government to be a much better investor than the large pension funds that manage billions. This subject has been discussed several times, but in the past the Secretary of State for Finance and SZW were happy with each other, without solving the problem. I fear that it will not be resolved today, but I would like to point out once again that a chance to gain acceptance is being thrown away again. I'm rounding up. This tax plan is not a reduction in charges but a reduction in charges. That's not gonna change anything in the upcoming novel. The PVV will vote against, with or without novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u20	I call Mr Köhler, who is making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. My first contribution to the plenary debate in this Chamber since my appointment in June is on the Tax Plan for next year. A plan where the coalition of VVD and PvdA only seems to obtain sufficient support for it after a lot of slipping, four notes of change and a novelle hanging above the market. The Secretary of State, and through him his officials, I would like to thank him for the very quick answer to the questions about the novelle in the Tax Plan. This allows us to include them in our deliberations today, even before the House of Representatives discusses this novelle. Finally, the manoeuvres of D66 lead to some administrative innovation. But whether we should be happy about that, I doubt it. The government coalition of VVD and PvdA claims that their plan to reduce taxes includes the optimal mix of measures to promote both employment and to achieve balanced income relationships. The SP doesn't agree with that. First of all, a few comments on employment. According to the Cabinet, the EUR 4.5 billion tax reduction for citizens would create 28,000 jobs. That is not much: if these billions are put into care, or invested in social housing, it will create a multitude of jobs. If Minister Asscher were to launch a job plan costing more than €150,000 per job, he would be hoarded. Anyway, 28,000 jobs are supposed to be in the cabinet. In doing so, it relies on the calculation model of the Central Planning Bureau. According to this model, these jobs are mainly created by increasing the labour cut, a tax advantage for workers. That increases the difference with people without paid employment. That would make them look harder for work. Supply determines demand, at least according to the theory of supply economists. In the long term, this will bring more people to work, in theory. On the objection that hundreds of thousands of unemployed people are already in vain looking for a job and that it does not create jobs if hundreds of thousands of job seekers are added to it, the theorists also have an answer. This may be the case in the short term, but if unemployment is much less in the near future, their theory will be restored. That may take perhaps ten years, but that does not affect the appeal of the calculation model for the government. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the projected 28,000 CPB model jobs are not foreseen for the near future but for the longer term? I go into this mathematics extensively, because this theory prevents the coalition from cooperating in improving the tax plan. When Mr Dijkgraaf made a proposal in the Lower House on behalf of the groups of SGP, ChristenUnion, CDA and SP to beg the families with one breadwinner a little better, that was rejected, because according to the calculation model it would cost too many jobs. Mr Dijkgraaf, himself a supporter of the CPB models, argued with force why the way in which the CPB applied the model in his proposal was not adequate. But Secretary of State Wiebes was not allowed to comment on this, because the government is by definition relying on the CPB calculation, so in this case too. Kafka in the Binnenhof. By the way, tax cuts will certainly create some jobs. If people gain net income, they can spend more and therefore the economy grows and jobs are added. But that does not mean that people without paid work should not be left behind the people with paid work, as is the case in the government's tax proposals. And it is good to give money to the low-income people in particular, because they will pump it back into the economy more quickly. But that is not what is happening in the cabinet's proposals. That brings me to what the cabinet calls 'balanced income relationships'. The higher wage reduction is particularly beneficial to those on low or moderate wages at least in the cabinet's original proposals. Of course, that was not balanced enough for the VVD. That is why there was a need for tax cuts for the upper middle classes and for the highest incomes. So reduce the load in the second and third disk and extend the third disk. This means that you only fall into the highest tax base of 52% at a higher income. The latter measure benefits only 7% of taxpayers, the 7% with the highest incomes. However, the Secretary of State writes in his replies that this measure favours middle and high incomes. Can the Secretary of State explain why he puts the middle between 0 and 100 over 93? With this Tax Plan, the Secretary of State moves along the houses on behalf of the government like a sintering class. Most people get a nice gift, the richer people get a more luxurious gift and the people with a minimum income get absolutely nothing. This Sinterklaas drives quietly past their cottage. As a VVD guy, he can come home with it, but he's also doing it on behalf of the PvdA. In spite of everything we're used to in the meantime, I'm still disappointed. Here D66 suddenly comes into the picture, like a streaker during a football game. She's gonna make a big gesture to Sinterklaas. "What's the matter?', asks sinterklaas. "Should I give the poor people something?" "No Sinterklaas," says D66. "Should I give the rich people a less big gift?" "No, certainly not," calls D66. "I just want some attention." "Okay," says Sinterklaas, "here's a couple of pepper nuts. Then I can move on." The government has had to borrow money to play for sinterklaas. But when it comes to gifts to their voters, the VVD, the PvdA, the CDA and D66 suddenly forgot their harsh words about the lack of funding, which motivated rather draconian austerity. People with a minimum income, with a welfare allowance or a Wajong benefit, about a million people in this country have been lagging behind the rest of the Netherlands for decades. In the cabinet's proposals, if they do not have children, this year they are the only group that will not improve purchasing power. While the other households progress on average 1.5% of GDP compared with the €500 per year. This disadvantage is unacceptable to the SP. The two million low-income households are increasingly lagging behind the two million high-income households. And that is not adequately corrected by taxes. Under the Rutte-Asscher cabinet, low incomes declined by 7% in purchasing power in the period 2012-2015. High incomes improved 3%. I take these figures from an article that my predecessor in this Chamber, Geert Reuten, published last month in the Magazine for Public Finance. If the Secretary of State wants to check it out, he can find it there. If the cabinet is already striving for balanced income relations, it has not succeeded so far. The 2016 Tax Plan also increases the difference between low and high income people. Low-income households are on average ahead of €130 per year, middle-income households €650 and high-income households get more than €1,000 per year. As far as the Secretary of State prefers to count in percentages, which in this case I can well imagine from his position because they would conceal the issue, I note that also in percentage terms the improvement in purchasing power varies: a higher percentage for high-income households than for low-income households. Can the Secretary of State explain again why the cabinet calls this balanced income relations? The SP wants to reverse this trend towards increasing inequality by raising taxes to bearables and making the strongest shoulders bear the most heavy burdens. Measured on these principles, the 2016 Tax Plan that we are discussing is not enough. We call for special attention to be paid to the growing number of children growing up in poverty. In our rich country, 400,000 children live who, because of their parents' low income, cannot fully participate in society. What does the Secretary of State think of this in the light of the participatory society advocated by the government? The elderly have also turned in a lot in recent years. In the government's proposals, there is a once-in-a-lifetime bonus, especially in the case of the elderly discount, to fix purchasing power next year. However, in general, the elderly will not make much progress until nothing next year and the one-off measures will expire in 2017. The cabinet can then write in the fourth letter of amendment that 100 million will be added for the elderly and another 100 million will be added in the novelle, but this does not alter the fact that the elderly will lose hundreds of millions of euros on balance in 2017. When I read the State Secretary's last replies, these amounts amount to 250 million as a result of the tax plans 2015 and 2016. If I fully understand all the figures, including those of Mr Van Rooijen, then we also have to add a further 275 million down by increasing the income-related contribution to the health insurance for the elderly. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can confirm these figures. In any case, the SP concludes that older people are underwhelmed in the cabinet's proposals. It is impossible to address all the shortcomings of our tax system in this contribution. That is why I am not going to comment on the continuously declining share of corporate tax revenues. Nor am I due to the large-scale tax avoidance by international companies or the half-hearted attitude of the cabinet on this point. However, I would like to comment on the taxation of capital, because this Tax Plan also includes a section on the adjustment of the capital efficiency tax; sufficient reason to discuss this year's growing capital differences. "Rijkest Dutchmen much richer" headlined the Volkskrant in early November. I quote: "According to the latest Quote 500, the 500 richest Dutch people saw their collective wealth increase by over 10% this year for the first time since the financial crisis. The number of billionaires grew by four to sixteen." The differences in capital in the Netherlands are among the highest in the Western world. The 10% richest people own more than 60% of their wealth. If you earn so much that you can set aside some income and invest, then that wealth grows over the years without having to do anything for it. You take advantage of the work of others. It is not for nothing that some economists speak of unearned income in this context. This property income is taxed only slightly: 30% of a fictitious return of 4%. A bit of a millionaire easily gets 5% return and pays only 24% tax. The SP believes that we should no longer tax a fictitious return, but the real return that people get from their assets. We note with agreement that last month the House of Representatives adopted a SP motion that calls on the government to come forward quickly with proposals in this direction. As far as we are concerned, the tax on capital gains also increases considerably, from 30% to 40% and even more for millionaires. Let us drastically reduce unearned income. With that money, we can improve our collective facilities. The cabinet has come up with a limited proposal on this point. It proposes that the capital efficiency levy be brought closer to the actual yields achieved. The fictitious return for people with low capital, who have it mainly on a savings account, goes down and the supposed return for people with high capital, who invest it mostly, goes up. The SP believes that this is reasonable, although it is far from meeting our proposals. It is only a shift within the quarter of the population that has a capital of more than €250,000. 3 million people are making progress. Only the 300,000 most wealthy Dutch people are going to pay a little more tax. The SP can agree to this shift. However, we do have a question about the calculation of the fictitious return on real estate, such as the second house. The State Secretary's proposal assumes that the net rental income is zero and that the average increase in the value of residential properties of 4,25% is charged. However, the Secretary of State himself states that this fictitious return is still too low. We ask him to come forward with a better calculation for the return on real estate for next year. That is also necessary, because it will not be easy for real estate to move quickly on to taxing the actual return. We support the proposal for an improved capital efficiency levy, but not the rest of the tax plan in this form. For this, it should be changed, so that the people who most need it also improve in purchasing power. As always, the members of the SP Group look forward with interest to the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Köhler. Congratulations on your maiden speech. You were sworn in on 9 June this year as a member of this Chamber. That brings you back to the political scene 44 years after your first real acquaintance with politics. This first acquaintance took place with the Pacific Socialist Party in 1971. As soon as you became a member of this party, you became an active member of the party department in The Hague. And soon, as an 18-year-old, you became a national youth secretary. From that position, you became training secretary and later political vice-president. In an interview, you said that these were not deliberate steps, but rather a coincidence of circumstances. You were called in, and you declared your readiness. As Vice-President, you were responsible, among other things, for writing a strategy paper. Not an easy task, because the times were turbulent in the party. There were major internal contradictions about the course of the party and its cooperation with other parties. In the turbulent 1970s, you were also given some national fame as general secretary of the Military Service Association. In 1980, you were called up again. This time to become a city council member in Amsterdam. You held this post until 1987, when you were the last year chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). In 1987 you left Amsterdam municipal politics to become national director of the Transport Association FNV and later director of the Projectbureau Aanvulging Public Transport. In 1994 you returned to the Amsterdam city council and became the group chairman of the now young, newly formed party GroenLinks. Four years later, you were appointed alderman for Transport, Infrastructure and Social Affairs. As an alderman in Amsterdam, you argued for the charging and the carless Sunday and opposed the liberalisation of the taxi market. In 2001, you became a social security and income policy advisor to the Chronic sick and Disabled Council of the Netherlands. Four years later, you became director of the Milieudefensie Association. In this capacity, you protested against, among other things, the widening of the A4 between Leiderdorp and Burgerveen and contributed to an agreement that ensured a more environmentally friendly construction of the Second Maasvlakte. "There is now a result that benefits the environment and the inhabitants of Rotterdam," you said in 2009. You said in an interview in 1987 that although you can sometimes be cynical in discussions, you can never be cynical in your attitude to life. I wish you that, so many years later, this is still the case with a wealth of political experience. I also wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I shall suspend the debate to give colleagues and myself the opportunity to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to congratulate Mr Köhler on his maiden speech. We have noted that a small but important element in his history has not been mentioned entirely, but we are talking about it again at many other times. Oh, you want to hear it. It concerns the transition to SP in 2011. We were constantly being questioned about what is going on here. This is an important part of our new colleague's history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u24	Thanks for the supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u25	Of course I also congratulate Mr Van Rij. Both had a very good contribution. I look forward to future debates. We deal with a tax plan in a somewhat unique version. There is now a novella in place to obtain the support of a party in this Chamber, namely D66, and thereby to create a majority. The special thing is that we should have this novelle dealt with this evening in this debate, which has not yet been discussed in the House of Representatives. It's no different. I think it would be good to say a few words about that. I have already expressed my disappointment, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, at the fact that the cabinet is spending 5 billion in structural terms on burden relief, some of which goes to people who really do not need it. Those 5 billion reliefs are the crucial part of what should have been a tax reform, but they have actually become more of a gift in order to spawn the disrespectful voters to vote for the coalition parties. In any case, we find it particularly regrettable and a missed opportunity. In recent years, however, this cabinet has made a number of hard cuts, for example on care, sheltered work and social services. It cracks and it squeaks. You'd say, "Hey, there's money now to relieve the need." But no, that money is spent on citizens rather than on public needs. We have therefore been very surprised that this has apparently been a reason for the PvdA to find this a good step and to support it. In our view, too little has happened with regard to the greening of the tax system. Little money has become available for this. The division will increase as non-working welfare recipients and older people receive much less burden relief than the workers. The employment gains involved in all of this are structuralally 35 000 jobs, but this number will only be achieved over many years. We consider that to be extremely weak given the enormous amount of 5 billion structuralally per year. In short: disappointing that this was apparently the big thing the cabinet is coming up with. I come to the party that has now said that it is possible to support this Tax Plan with the novella, namely D66. In fact, she shared the criticism of the Tax Plan, at least in terms of employment and greening, and therefore voted against the Tax Plan. D66 said that there was a great lack of ambition in the cabinet and that it was completely inadequate, especially in the employment field. The same applies to the point of greening. Frankly, my group is surprised that the present novelle is now sufficient for D66 to support this tax review. We still have to see that, by the way. Let me not pre-empt the debate too far. If you look closely at this novelle, you will see that there is little extra work, even 0.0%, as we have read today in the answers of the Secretary of State. That's rounded to 0%. The greening is quite okay: a one-time extra investment in energy saving. But a one-off amount, of course, in the longer term, doesn't make any difference. There is a intention to shift the tax burden from the Empire to the municipalities in the future and to enable these municipalities to collect tax revenues themselves. It's a four-billion-dollar shift. The tax burden on citizens must not increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u26	Mrs. Vos is okay with the greening. I would point out to her that the cabinet has taken a number of important decisions on coal-fired power stations, which it has never announced in this way before. The fourth letter of amendment contains the gas and electricity slide. There is a $100 million vote for greening in the built environment. I'd say: GroenLinks, it's a little bit more than okay. Surely it is measures that that party should embrace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u27	The closure of coal power stations is a good action by your party in the Lower House, but it is independent of this tax plan. A motion has indeed been adopted, and we are extremely pleased with it, and we have, of course, supported it, which calls on the cabinet to close coal power stations. The cabinet is now sending a letter, linked to this tax plan, that it comes with a plan how that will happen. Frankly, it seems to me quite logical that the cabinet should carry out a motion from the House of Representatives. I do not so much see that this is a merit of this novelle. It's right next to it. Indeed, there are also a number of other measures that lead to some greening. We take a positive view of them. But with regard to the structural changes that should have taken place as far as we are concerned, for example, the fact that large consumers hardly pay energy taxes, nothing is happening. We find that disappointing and that was a reason for my group in the House of Representatives to say that the plan is inadequate. I was at the part about the tax shift to the municipalities. We notice that the CPB seems to say that it is going to generate between 15,000 and 20,000 jobs. Can the cabinet explain how the CPB got it? By the way, we have read the relevant documents. Apparently, these jobs come mainly from the relief that the Empire can apply, namely the reduction of income tax. This is going to create jobs. But it is not the case that what is going to be done in the municipal domain leads to extra work. Let me get this straight. We also see that these measures are reasonably uncertain for the time being. The cabinet does come up with a preliminary draft, but a second parliamentary election and municipal elections will go over again. So it's all just waiting to see if this is going to happen. Can the cabinet indicate, for example, how it sees these new taxes in the municipal domain? Could this be done, for example, through the property tax, or is it excluded because it has a relationship to property and thus slightly to income? If that is not possible in this way, how, according to the cabinet, can the tax increase take shape in the municipal domain? My group would regret it if a personal or resident tax were to become the same as in the case of low incomes and thus to contribute to de-levelling. Maybe the cabinet can lift a little bit of the veil. D66 certainly has ideas on how to take this form and should be completed. The CDA has made it clear between the lines that it does not feel much about this, but thinks: it will take our time, because there will be elections and we will see again. How hard is this commitment and what is really going to come of it? We are curious how the one-off 100 million available for energy saving will be used by homeowners and how the cabinet will ensure that this money can be effective. For example, we would have liked to have seen a revolver fund, but that cannot be done with a one-off contribution. You have to come up with structural resources. How, in the cabinet's view, can this be effective policy? The last point I would like to make about the novelle is that, in my group's view, this novelle delevelling is working. Does the cabinet agree with my group? We read in the reply that this is not the case for 2016, but for 2017. Higher incomes will be reduced more slowly and will thus benefit from this novelle. What is the reason why, precisely for the incomes of around €35,000 to €125,000, the tax rebate is being reduced more slowly? We read in the reply that in 2017 in particular, the net effect of reducing the reduction in the labour cut and increasing the burden on labour will be detrimental for workers with a lower income or a middle income: to minus 0.2% at €35,000. For workers with an income in the fourth disc and above, the novelle is positive. The advantage increases to a maximum of 0.3% with an income of €125,000. Above €125,000, the employment discount goes to 0. We have no choice but to see this leveling. I would like to hear from the cabinet whether this is true and why this design was chosen. The gap with the welfare recipients is getting even bigger with this novelle. Does the Cabinet agree with us? My group's preliminary opinion on the novelle is as follows. As far as greening is concerned, something is being realized, but it remains very lean. In addition, my group deplores the debilitating effect and the slower reduction of the wage cut to €125,000. I'm passing the Tax Plan on a number of parts. Mr Backer just asked me how I look at the greening. First of all, I would like to consider the climate conference in Paris. Fortunately, this conference produced an agreement signed by all countries. This is an extremely important breakthrough. This agreement means saying goodbye to the fossil economy. When that happens, of course, there is still a big discussion, but there is agreement that fossil fuels should be stopped. The agreement also states that limiting the warming to a maximum of 2°C is not enough, and that is also an important breakthrough because this 2°C causes unacceptable damage to humans and nature. Therefore, a maximum of 1,5 °C should be used. This also means that Europe and the Netherlands need to take more action to reduce the use of fossil fuels and to speed up the pace. We know that what you pump into the atmosphere every year stays there for a long time. If the one-off 100 million for energy saving is the extra contribution, we think it is rather economical. This is less than 2% of the large amount of EUR 5 billion of structural burden relief. We will have to stop producing electricity quickly through coal power plants. This was also recorded by the Lower House by motion of D66, which was supported by many other parties, including mine. In the letter on de novelle, the cabinet states that it will shortly react to that motion and would like to phase out the use of coal power stations already during this cabinet period. Does the agreement in Paris mean that the cabinet will come up with a concrete plan to stop the use of coal as fuel in the short term? If so, what measures will the cabinet take to that effect? The Klaver c.s. motion, which calls for additional measures in 2016, also calls for a quick and adequate response. I come to a number of other points where we believe that the Tax Plan is inadequate. With the climate agreement in hand, it is no longer possible to defend that the energy tax for large consumers is so low as compared to the tax paid by consumers, but also by small and medium-sized enterprises. The deterioration resulting from the treatment in the Lower House of Parliament in this Tax Plan, namely an exemption for the levy on gas for the mineralogic and metallurgical industries, should also be reversed. Is the cabinet prepared to take steps to gradually increase energy taxes for large consumers? Is the cabinet also prepared to use its revenues for the energy investment deduction scheme, so that it becomes more attractive to invest in energy saving, especially for companies? Is the cabinet prepared to use part of the STEP approach to energy-saving measures in the homes of large housing corporations? There are, of course, some positive points in this greening, such as the postcode rose. Another positive point is that the local rate on self-generated renewable energy goes to 0. These are good measures, of course, which we support, but in general we think it is weak, especially in view of the huge amount of burden relief that is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u28	I've been sitting on the tip of my seat all along to jump forward, but I can't do that all the time. But now I couldn't help myself. Half of the energy consumption in the chemical industry we call 'energy consumption' is non-energy consumption of energy carriers, which means that hydrocarbons are converted into other hydrocarbons no longer called 'energy carrier'. In statistics, energy is consumed, but in reality this energy remains present in the substances produced by the chemical industry. Is Mrs. Vos familiar with that? Does she think that this type of consumption of energy should be subject to taxation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u29	Frankly, I find this an interesting technical question, but to answer that now... let's take a good look at that. Of course, we always have to tax wisely. My plea is that, in general, the use of fossil fuels in large companies is subject to extremely low taxes, which we, as consumers, pay heavily for. Let's straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u30	It is about half the hydrocarbons used in the chemical industry! That's not just a technical question. We are talking about the tax system and about half the hydrocarbons used in the chemical industry. You can't just take that off with the reaction that it's a technical question that you're not worried about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u31	Then let me answer the question. As far as we are concerned, the use and use of energy, electricity and gas must be taxed much higher. Your question was much more about the use in the production of materials. It will be necessary to look at how it can be properly taxed. I'd like to talk to you about that. Mr. Chairman. I ask the cabinet, in addition to making my plea to really address the big consumers, whether it is prepared to commit itself in Europe to a better functioning and more effective emission allowance market. Already during the Financial Reviews we had a nice debate on this with the Secretary of State. Is he prepared to acknowledge that that market does not actually work because there are far too many rights in that market? Huge reserves are not used, but are still available somewhere. As a result, the prices of CO are far too low and in fact we have a system that is not working properly. Is the cabinet prepared to say: "This system must work, so we want to speed up that ceiling and remove the allowances we do not use from the market. We really want to make sure that the price of CO goes up significantly."? I'd be interested if the Secretary of State responded. Another important point where we are wondering why no money goes there is the following. All the municipalities are squeaking and cracking at this moment when it comes to the huge amount of new tasks they get on their plate around the Participation Act, around care, around welfare, around the Wmo and around the appropriate education. Aldermen from many cities and municipalities have said that they simply do not like it. If that is the case, why do we not spend a reasonable amount of money on a decent implementation of all these important tasks in the social domain for citizens? Why don't we use some of the 5 billion relief for that? Why wasn't that chosen? This would also contribute to maintaining employment in, for example, home aid. The government is the largest job destroyer in the areas of care, appropriate education and the Participation Act due to its austerity. We feel that this is an extra burden for those who are less educated, who are already having an extremely difficult time in this labour market. Why is there no more investment in making jobs possible in home help? Another important point that we would like to stress concerns the budget for development cooperation. By way of a written contribution to that budget, we will also say a few things about it. My group believes that we are simply lacking in this. The budget is falling and falling and falling. The problem is that within this declining budget for development cooperation, an increasing share of asylum seekers' first-year care needs to be spent. We believe it is very important that this group is well received and well supervised and that more investment is being made in integration. But why should this be paid out of the development cooperation budget? Slowly there is less and less money left for the really poor countries: now it is between 0.15% and 0.20%. That is far below what we should actually make available to the really poor countries. Is the cabinet prepared to look at this again and find another solution for spending on the first-year reception of asylum seekers? As I said earlier, Germany does things differently. Germany has said: we have strong economic growth this year; we are spending some of that money on the reception of asylum seekers, and we are not letting all this go at the expense of development cooperation. What my group also notes is that climate funding is largely financed from the development cooperation budget. I come to the income distribution. We believe that the reduction in the burden is too much for higher incomes, whereas they do not need it. This will in fact further strengthen the decoupling between wages and benefits, as only workers benefit from this reduction. We do not see why the third disk should be extended and why the third disk rate is going down. We would like to hear from the cabinet what social purpose it serves. Should this money not be for the benefit of those on low incomes or those on welfare? I would like to ask another question about childcare for which an additional 100 million is now available. In itself, this is a very defensive matter, but we note that this money is only intended for children of parents who both work, while there are children of single parents, of parents who do not both work and of parents without money. Those children now depend on the facilities the municipality creates for them. This means that many children are unable to go to preschool or toddler facilities. Does the cabinet see the possibility of doing something extra from the budget of 100 million extra for these groups of children? I'm coming to a closure. I have already made it clear that my group cannot justify this 5 billion reduction. We see many social needs for which money should be available. We do not see enough greening and there is not enough "fair sharing." More attention should be paid to this. In our view, the novelle also offers too little improvement. We would like to hear the answer from the cabinet before we reach a final verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Rij, who has completed a fine career as head of a school newspaper as a senator for the CDA. I also notice a break in style within the CDA, because from now on everything goes public and not in the back rooms. I very much welcome that. I would also like to congratulate Mr Köhler, who has been able to lift the sarcasm's style to great heights this evening. But I know what the SP is fighting for, and that has my sympathy, although we will often choose other solutions. The present legislative proposals have an impetuous preliminaries. The Secretary of State knows that like no other. He's been released with some fear. The media have written a lot about it. The taxes are usually a subject for specialists and they are rarely front page news, but that was different this time. If so much has already been said about it outside Parliament, it is high time we debated it here with each other. We are doing this tonight and tomorrow afternoon and, if necessary, as the Finance Committee decided this afternoon, in a third term next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u33	A second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u34	A second term. Excuse me. Treatment should be undertaken with care. There is an existing package and there is a novelle, as has been mentioned a number of times this evening. It's a special figure, but it's possible, and in these proportions and in the time we have, it has to be like this. Both the amendments to the fourth letter of amendment and the novella have been supported by my group. My group has called for these changes, and I should like to clarify them immediately. This has also been referred to a number of times this evening. I'll discuss the package and the additions together. That is also possible, because we have received the answers to the last written questions on time and some questions have already been asked in the House of Representatives. I thank the Minister's staff, because they have answered the questions about real time. In the case of reforms, the cabinet could and can count on the D66 group. It would be contrary to political logic if we could not continue this series together. Now that we've come this far, we'd like to go through with it. We are simply faced with a continuous challenge of adaptation. We are very successful in the Netherlands, polding or non-polding, with or without a new landscape architecture. Look at OECD statistics, look at the EU, look at the ranking in the euro area and also look at the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, led by our former colleague Kim Putters, and its report on the social state of the Netherlands. Tax reform will have to be part of that adjustment. This Chamber in a majority last year also found this in the General Financial Reviews and in the Tax Plan. This is where the Van Boxtel motion was adopted, which was widely supported. The motion called on the government to come forward with proposals for a structural tax review in spring 2015. This was an urgent matter and that urgency has not been reduced. It is also reason for my group to continue to strive for improvements in the 2016 package, as well as in the 2017 review, for more emancipating effects than purchasing power-driven effects, and also to move towards reforms: the local tax area. I was talking about "urgent." I would like to quote with approval the words of Professor Cnossen at the hearing in the House of Representatives: 'Every country has the right to a bad tax system, but the Netherlands has used that right very eagerly'. This, the Van Boxtel motion and perhaps its own ambition, have prompted the Secretary of State to outline the outlines of a new system. What remains of that, in December of that same year? Is the major review farther away than ever? Is it, to take just one metaphor out of the music, a prelude that can also exist independently? Or is it an overture, in which the good listener can already hear elements of the later parts? I'm not jumping to any conclusions on which one it is. We'll talk about that later. Could it have been better? I have already heard the necessary comments in this Chamber this evening. Yes, it could have been better without a doubt. It is not much more than a step in the right direction. It seems to be a politically necessary intermediate step. Let's not beat around the bush. Our ambition to help achieve a major tax review remains, but it is not realised at once. I invite this energetic and optimistic ruler to explain to us how he thinks he is going to move forward with the project, which is now somewhat stagnating. That can't stand any delay. I share the concern that Mr Ester has just expressed. The work is not complete and until it is done, there is a risk that we will try to continue rowing with inadequate fiscal instruments, that we will try to stop a flexible labour market, for example, because we think we can protect outdated structures. But you can't. The tax administration will have to adapt to the shift of powers from The Hague to Brussels, i.e. to the EU, a curse for some, while others believe that this is right and to the larger, scaled up municipalities. That is why this should also become tax areas. This is anticipating or adapting to many innovations, including transactions, digital earning models, virtual activity and a cross-border economy. There are fewer and fewer permanent employees; at least, the trend is falling. The value of labour is not always the value that was previously identified and could be taxed. On the basis of the existing rules, it is also becoming increasingly difficult to determine where work or a particular activity can be taxed. Indeed, there are also products delivered entirely or partly digitally, which raise the question of where the profit is made and where the tax on that profit is to be paid. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's views on these developments. While we in this country are biologized by migration, from which also opportunities and not unilateral threats arise for the Netherlands, at the same time business is internationalising, i.e. physically or fiscally our country goes to economies in Asia and other growth poles in the world. There is a form of TTIP coming; which is not yet fixed, but there will be something of further free trade. The development of a capacity to adapt is crucial for our prosperity. It is urgently needed, and not least in the Tax Office. I would add that innovation is not the same as admitting to a race to the bottom. It involves adjustments towards an economy that offers the most opportunities for job development and leads to prosperity for many, in our country and in the world, who have now barely benefited from it. Mr Vos has already spoken about the commitments made by all countries at the Paris Climate Summit. That was indeed a historic event. I have checked: a commitment to well below 2 degrees, in the direction of 1.5, to which the whole world has committed itself. Implementation will be complicated, but this is a set of standards and it is consistent with these developments in our country. I would say that it is almost a coincidence, but the decision on phasing-out of coal power stations fits in very well with that. The cabinet has never gone as far as in the letter of 8 December. This is a gain for future generations, but now it comes down to cashing it in through a concrete decision. In the direction of Mrs Vos, I say that there is a reason for this, because this package again includes an exemption from the coal tax. We have to be honest about that. I'm almost afraid I've provoked an interruption with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u35	It is, of course, great that there is now a serious discussion about stopping the production of energy from coal. So that's fantastic, but I don't think it has anything to do with this Tax Plan, nor does it have anything to do with the novelle. You are really presenting this as a new profit, but I think it is due to a good motion adopted by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u36	I ask Mr Vos why this should always be seen in terms of profit and loss. I would say that this is a gain for future generations. It is true that there is a relationship with the Tax Plan, because this discussion, unlike both of us, has been conducted within the framework of the Energy Agreement and that exemption from coal taxation is being re-established. If the coal plants get that facility again, there is reason to say something about it now. That is the link with the Tax Plan, and that is why I thought it justified to speak about it and to address the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u37	I assume that this is one of the arguments why D66 now believes it can vote for the Tax Plan. I say to that: equipment has not changed. We are waiting for the letter, which had to come anyway because it is simply about the execution of a motion from the House of Representatives. I know that my colleagues in the House of Representatives have again tried to get that coal levy back into it by means of an amendment. If that tax came back in, you'd think we'd talk about something again. Then there would be a result, but now it is just a matter of waiting for that result to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u38	That's the beauty of the pluralistic composition of this Chamber. We can be satisfied with that, not GroenLinks. That's often the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u39	My question was, of course, why this is a profit for you now. Your group in the House of Representatives voted against this Tax Plan, partly because there was far too little ambition in terms of employment and greening. You're making an adjustment now. In fact, you have already said that you are much more satisfied. I am now looking for what that is in, what the big profit is for your group. Maybe we'll get there in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u40	Do you mind if I finish my story? You may then still be dissatisfied at the end of it. Then I'll hear it from you and I can explain it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u41	Fine, we'll talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u42	In that case, I shall continue with my speech. Before Mrs Vos interrupted me, I actually wanted to say that this is the end of my introductory remarks. My group believes that the fourth letter of amendment, the novella and the cabinet letter of 8 December, together with all three, represents a substantial improvement. There is always a look at this novelle, but for us the overall package is an improvement. With this, I will answer Mrs Vos's question straight away. These legislative proposals and the measures to contribute to job growth and greening in the long term, and they lay the foundations for a reform in the long term. These are the amendments to the fifth letter of amendment, now the novelle, in addition to the fourth, namely the increase of the IACK, the transferable discount on the childcare allowance, and the labour discount. Slowing down the phasing-out and changing the slope in the chart help to make work more rewarding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u43	I would like to ask a question in response to what Mr Backer mentioned, namely that there is now a package that is favourable and is helping us forward. I congratulate him, of course, on the novella, which is apparently supported by D66. However, this does not help all groups very well. I'm sure he understands that I'm referring to the group of one-earners. The General Financial Reviews have already discussed the gap that this Tax Plan will increase to five times greater. Now that Tax Plan is almost reality and that gap is so great. I know we think differently about one earner, but let me put that aside. Let us say that it is of course important that there are incentives for people to go to work. However, a number of people cannot do that. For those people it sometimes happens that they pay up to five times as much tax. Does Mr Backer still think that this is proportionate? I almost wanted to say "justice," but that's hard for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u44	If the answer were "no," we would have gone the other way. We had the opportunity to help shape the latest changes to the Tax Plan. This is evident from the written procedure and it has also been demonstrated by the Dijkgraaf/Omtzigt motion from the Lower House, in which precisely those other solutions were chosen and the earners would come out better. We chose not to. I think that'll keep us divided. You can argue whether the instrument still works well enough. You can argue whether it's really a free choice. That discussion has also been held in the Lower House. I remember there was an increase in the TOG contribution of 4 million, for those who actually care for a disabled child or roommate. But in the end, there just turns out to be a political difference: do you do something for families and workers or do you do something for the one-earner? If you do one thing, you don't do the other, unless you limit the load relief even further. That choice has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u45	I agree: that choice has been made. And there are these political differences. But at some point it gets disproportionate, and that's what it looks like now. For 2016 we have to accept that, so be so. Would Mr. Backer be willing to consider the possibilities in the future to reduce this far-reaching incentive for 2017? Plans for 2017 are already being developed in the novelle. I am very curious whether Mr Backer and his party D66 are prepared to think and watch; are there any more real images to get out of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u46	Mr Schalk asks it in a way that makes it difficult for me to say no. It's almost hard for me to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u47	Then I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u48	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u49	Just tell me what you have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u50	No, I want to be fair, too. There are political differences and differences in political views between us. In recent years, we have been sidelined by the SGP and the Christian Union in the difficult measures. Not because we agreed on everything, but we agreed on a number of things that had to be done. Roads vary when it comes to relief. That is clear in this plan. I therefore also call for a more fundamental approach to the tax review, which takes this point into account. Of course it has to be taken into account. If Mr Schalk's question is whether I believe that this should have a place in that discussion, then my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u51	Finally, Mr Schalk, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u52	Let me clarify something. Suppose we come to the conclusion that there are opportunities to narrow that gap where there is no substantial job loss. Am I to understand that Mr Backer is then prepared to think along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u53	I'm always willing to think about that. It is remarkable, however, that all Mr Schalk's proposals lead to job losses. I am referring to that number because I will talk about it later, but the arrow has so far been in the wrong direction. That immediately led me to the point where I wanted to continue, namely the amount of jobs and the exact calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u54	Wait a minute. Mr Van Rooijen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u55	We're talking about making choices. One choice is about how you deal with the difference between single and double households in taxes. A motion has been tabled and accepted. Finally, I have a similar question about the different treatment of workers and the elderly. How does Mr Backer look at the future? He talks about a further tax reform. It's off the table in my opinion. The resources aren't for it. I would like to ask him whether he is prepared, in any reform discussions, to look at the position of the elderly in relation to the workers. I would like to hear that because there too a choice is made in one direction or the other. We have to accept that now is the time to go to hell, but is Mr Backer prepared to discuss this further with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u56	I followed Mr Van Rooijen in his crusade for the electorate group he stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u57	Group? They're people, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u58	One doesn't rule out the other, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u59	The wording is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u60	That is not meant to mean anything, but I can see that Mr Van Rooijen is very responsive to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u61	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u62	No, Mr. Van Rooijen, not for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u63	I have followed Mr Van Rooijen in his crusade and also in his plans for those who care most about him most. Well, let me put it this way. I think I'll disappoint him. If we have to make great choices in the revision of taxes and if we look at the relative prosperity and the challenges facing us, then this tax plan will not be without our support for those workers who contribute to the income side of the economy and also to the income side of their own budget at home. Of course, there will have to be fair distances in the end. The balance with the non-employed and with benefits should ultimately be fair and proportionate, but I think that we are quite apart in terms of the ambitions in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u64	I have a supplementary question on the perspective. Mr Backer's answer is clear. I did not want to say this to him in the first term, but he also received a letter saying that at least we are considering extending the tax area of the municipalities. Let me say it carefully: we are debating it next week. It also states that the tax on employment should be reduced by 4 billion, with which the choice has already been made by the cabinet, but also at the initiative of D66. At least that's what I'm assuming. 4 billion more to the workers means 5 billion and 4 billion, 9 billion going to the workers. This is in D66's press release. I have argued today that 5 billion is already too far a bridge. 4 billion more is then two bridges too far. Can Mr Backer respond to that? In this way, the elderly will get nothing again and they will pay again through more municipal taxes because, of course, this has to come from somewhere. So they're screwed twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u65	That seems to me the right time to have that debate in its entirety. The debate on the local tax area has been going on since 1998 with Professor Gepaart's article, which you know of course, and all kinds of publications afterwards. The Rinnooy Kan Committee has advised on this. We're not here yet. An extension of the local tax area, which will ultimately impose heavier burdens, will obviously not be possible in these Chambers. Whether, in Mr Van Rooij's view, it is fairly divided between older people and others, I cannot judge now. That will be the outcome of that discussion and we shall have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u66	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u67	I have a quick question. Does Mr Backer recognize that the elderly are not getting anything and that there is no fair sharing of burdens in any way if the tax on workers increases by 4 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u68	I find this conclusion very brief. I'm not just gonna confirm it. I would like to continue with my speech. The exact calculation of the labour supply in the CPB model leads to all kinds of sums, but does not contribute to the discussion. I was therefore very pleased with what Mr Ester said. There are sums being shared and then it's like it's so much per job. It is a long-term structural improvement. In addition, the local tax area. 35,000 plus, I'll say. How much that is, I don't know, but it's the right direction. That's the whole package. I do, however, support Mr Ester's request that the CPB take another look at these figures. I know from experience that this request, through him, must be addressed to Minister Kamp, but on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u69	Mrs Vos, a brief question because I would like to give Mr Backer the opportunity to move on with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u70	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity. This point of employment is very important for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u71	For you, too, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u72	Absolutely, but for the Lower House Group of D66 I think this was really the reason not to support the tax plan. What, according to Mr Backer, is the profit, the ambition in terms of employment, so that the D66 Group can do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u73	This is a bit of a rerun of moves. I have just said that it is a total package that has taken us from a 'no' to a 'yes'. That reconstruction was done. The discussion in the House of Representatives has been about much more than the package that is in the end. A very large part of the fourth letter of amendment had our support, but it was not enough. In the end, the cabinet has been talking to us and there is a result in terms of jobs, greening and local taxation that is sufficient for us. Mrs Vos may or may not agree with this, but that has been the consideration. I'm open on that. Fortunately, the Netherlands will eventually get away with a tax plan for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u74	Mr Ester, one short question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u75	Sure. Mr Backer spoke about the overall package. There is, of course, a price tag on that. It's a $5 billion price tag. We and Mr Backer have seen that next year's structural budget deficit is going up to 1.9%. In 2017, it will be 2.5%. That is the structural budget deficit. This has been cleared for cyclical fluctuations and occasional benefits and charges. That's a big deal. Mr Backer has just spoken about Brussels. He must be able to explain in Brussels that, thanks to his support, Brussels standards are again not being met. Is that what Mr Backer is worried about, or does he consider it different?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u76	I have good news for Mr Ester, because the documents contain a letter from the European Commission, which has assessed the budget. I have carefully investigated this, because that was where my concern was: is this still in the Stability and Growth Pact and the commitments made, especially after the Council of State has been critical about this? And that fits! I advise Mr. Ester to read it. I do not want to say that everything that comes from Brussels is sacred, but within the European Semester it is important that the European Commission gives the green light.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u77	Very briefly, Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u78	But you do realize you're above the 60% standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u79	Certainly, but in the preventive arm of the Growth Pact that is allowed, if you only indicate a structural reduction. I advise Mr. Ester to read it. We are both familiar with this matter and have both provided a sober approach to the budget. This was cleared in Brussels. I see Mr Ester shaking no, but point out to him the pieces. I have already discussed a number of issues in my text when it comes to interrupting. Let me not repeat that. This also applies to the local tax area, but I would like to say in particular that the situation in the Netherlands is quite exceptional. Here about 5.2% of the total tax and contribution income is local. In the EU, this is about 38%. So a shift isn't that crazy. Of that 5.2%, 3.8% of the municipality, to which we ask so many things, as Mrs Vos also pointed out. So it is important that we do something with that. In particular, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the status of the preparation that has already taken place in his department. It has been worked on before. The letter states as the date of submission "before the summer." I'd like to know how many before that. Under the heading 'Human and Machine' I have a critical remark in my text about the timing of this debate. In fact, it is almost impossible to achieve the optimal for the tax year 2016 because "systems" do not allow it. Some spokesmen informed about the additional costs involved. In the execution test there is a lot of information about this. A number of plans for 2017 have been included in both the fourth letter of amendment and the novella. This happens a year later because they could no longer be implemented in 2016; think about the labour discount and the childcare allowance. My group has three observations to make. Firstly, I find it undesirable for the government to come to this Chamber so late with the tax plan that there is virtually no repair for the tax plan for the following year, as is sometimes necessary. Of course, it involves huge numbers and complex processing at the Tax Office, but man should and should remain in control of the machine. Secondly, this Chamber should allow the discussion to take place earlier. I am looking at the chairman: I know it is a complicated discussion with the House of Representatives, but we should nevertheless strive to do so. It is also a hand in our own bosom that we do this immediately following the General Financial Reviews. So we can discuss it as a total package. Finally, as I said, I found a performance test at the novelle. That reminded me a bit of situations that we encounter in working life when planning which operational services or staff tell us that they cannot, cost too much money, have already been devised, are not sensible and should be rejected. It is to be commended that the Secretary of State for protecting his Tax Office from untimely and non-executable plans, because we have seen strong samples in the past in which that was not done. That is very good and also fits in with the approach advocated by Mr De Graaf in the General Reviews. But good intentions that have been expressed in advance and are simply in the budgetary cycle should not be frustrated by the fact that the Ministry has made choices in FTEs and ICT systems and can therefore no longer be achieved on the basis of capacity. Nor should there be any pre-sorting of decisions that the legislator has not yet taken. I would like to remind you of the VAR requests for 2016, which were no longer dealt with in the summer because the DBA law was on its way. The VAR holders have received a letter on this subject, partly incomprehensible, that this will continue because the debate is not until January. Moreover, when we talk about jobs and jobs, this proposal appears to be more of a destroyer than a job machine. I will come briefly to a number of smaller parts of the package, which are nevertheless important. Of course, we support the provision under Article 2 of the Fund, but it is a pity that this has taken so long. The Other Tax Measures Act is a potpourri of donation, divend tax, Common Reporting Standard, WOZ, tax litigation law, an electricity slide and sewage sludge. This has to be different from now on. The cabinet has promised solemn improvement on the Hoekstra motion, which has been widely supported. The question is what frequency such motions should be tabled. I checked: the same motion was tabled by Senator Boorsma, also by the CDA, in 1992 during the Lubbers/Kok cabinet. That motion dealt with the same issues, was widely supported and would also lead to good intentions. By the way, the CDA also supported the tax plan at the time. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what his guiding criteria for the collection law are in the future. I would just like to touch briefly on two specific points which have not yet been raised today. That legitimizes that I'm gonna say something about it after all. In the written preparation, the question referred for a preliminary ruling was raised. Can the Secretary of State assure us that an individual seeker of justice is not harmed in his procedural position? If so, why not? There is another procedural point which my group is concerned about, namely the addition of force. That sounds medieval and maybe it is. It is in the proposals as a means of power of the Tax Administration in the recovery of claims. It's a heavy substance. Is it sufficiently secure? I am thinking of situations with a maze of surcharges, where people absolutely do not know what they are actually being called for. I want to make a comment about the RDA and S&D. That was also discussed in writing. My concern is that the top sectors and large companies are well addressed, but SMEs will eventually find the dog in the pot. In the Lower House they tried to cover that with a ceiling. It didn't make it. In the written questions, I do not think the Secretary of State's speech was convincing, because it came down to: it is good because it is good. I urge the Secretary of State not to repeat his moves, but to make a pass, or to find a solution to address the concerns. He said something strange about this in the House of Representatives. Let me say it in my own words: if it turns out that it doesn't work out well, we'll get the money back from those who paid it. That seems like a strange figure to me, or I misunderstood. I hope the Secretary of State will be able to explain that. I'm coming to box three now. It is difficult not to think about the recent advertising of a well-known supermarket, with the sniffing face of that tax advisor. This does an injustice to the esteemed profession of which colleagues Van de Ven and Van Rij are part, but it does illustrate the fact that most people understand little of this whole. In particular, if they have box 3 in view of the declaration, they do not understand the difference between the return on capital and the amount of the charge in box 3. The question is whether this will improve in the plans for 2017 and 2018. Mr Van Rij has spoken very extensively about this and has made his concerns very clear. I also indicated it in the documents. My group believes that the gap with the real return in 2016 and perhaps also in 2017 is so great that this announcement about the future does not benefit tax morals. It is possible and technically feasible to narrow the gap for the smaller savers as early as 2016. I note that some of my colleagues have been positive about this. For 2016 it is still possible to raise the free foot slightly. The small saver benefits from this in relative terms than most. From that approach, you could also come up with variants for 2017. There has been extensive debate in the House of Representatives about whether there will be a better regime in 2018 and whether it will help to announce that already. The very fiscal Netherlands that has studied for it has been asked for a judgment. We also saw this in the interesting hearing in this Chamber on 23 November. I would also recommend that everyone reread the report. Mr Köhler forgot to mention that Mr Bashir of the SP and Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 have jointly tabled a motion in the Lower House, which has also been supported, which seeks to base it on real returns and which calls on the cabinet to work on them. That seems to me to be the right direction. Even if this 2016 Tax Plan has been on the shelf for a long time, this discussion will continue. Mr Van Rij announced that he would also stimulate this discussion. I am therefore very curious to see where this is going to come out. Remarkable about the discussion on box 3 is that there has actually been no in-depth debate on the taxation of capital increase, which is a very fundamental point. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this and how this has been done. I'm rounding up. It was breathtaking to see the Secretary of State as a trapeze artist in the Lower House in order to gain support for his plans. Eventually he threatened to fall into the sawdust of the piste without a safety net and the cabinet with him. The Secretary of State has broken the law just in time; someone also called it administrative renewal today in the final phase went looking for support and support and it was found with D66. My group was open to this and has over time been able to see how solution-oriented it has been and how willing it was to look further ahead. I would like to draw attention to the issues raised in the supplementary measures contained in the letter from the cabinet of 8 December last, namely local tax territory and coal-fired power stations, apart from the other subjects. We have been able to contribute to this end result ourselves, and you have all been able to understand from my speech that it is a sufficient score for my group. It is therefore only logical that the group of D66, as it stands now, should still wait for what happens in the House of Representatives with the novelle............................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u80	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Rij and Mr Köhler on their maiden speech. I was very happy to listen to both of them, with all the differences, and very often also with approval. Remarkable: the NRC reported this week in a small message that Finland intends to give each adult Finn a basic income of around €800. That country is, I assume, the first country in the world to choose this form as a welfare state concept. It solves a lot of problems that have led us to unclear tax and surcharge legislation and to implementation problems in the Tax Administration. And it also solves some of the problems that have been raised this year by the Christian groups, especially those of the SGP, and in my opinion not wrongly. Looks like the Tax Plan, with all its annexes and with a novelle, is going to be adopted in this house. This is a problem for the government, but not all the objections I have raised have been resolved in recent times. Now putting money into a general round of purchasing power retention seems to be more or less justified in a slowly booming economy and after all the cuts in recent years. Pumping extra money into the economy in favour of specific groups of workers, especially those with children, is good for those who benefit but seems premature now that it is not embedded in a complete overhaul of the out-of-control system, now that the objective of a structural budget balance has not yet been achieved, is even further out of sight, despite the possible approval of Brussels, and now that there is every reason to assume that we are still facing very high costs from various domestic and foreign issues. In the area of care, justice and security are probably not enough, gas is still a threat to Groningen, taking responsibility for the EU's external borders is going to cost more money and what the so-called "war" with IS will cost in the event of further escalation may well be disappointing. And then there is the climate agreement, and that may cost a bit. What we are doing now with this Tax Plan is, in any case, not returning to simplicity and to an income tax which also basically equals income, but taking into account differences in capacity. No, what we are doing now is going further along the road of treating one differently from the other, especially workers other than non-working people, with the argument of wanting to tackle the major problem of unemployment, but in fact it is quite clear that in this way we can drive forward the supply of labour but will hardly have any impact on employment itself, except for the general incentive to spend this extra money. What we are chasing is the political-social ideal that everyone has to offer their labour on the market, and so what we do not want to take into account is freedom, but also the sometimes forced need within communities to make other choices. In my opinion, a clear and fair system of income tax should not pursue political and social objectives with series of income-dependent tax reductions and allowances. A clear and fair system should, in my opinion, be based on equal taxation of equal individual income; it should allow a large duty-free rate or general tax reduction which is transferable within a clearly defined framework of life. I would like to say that it is allowed to apply a uniform rate above par, with only a significantly higher rate for clearly higher incomes. That's where I'm headed towards the CDA, I think. On the basis of this, there is still work to be done, and it will be useful and inevitable when dealing with this great work, that not only small money but also large money will be available to make changes. This is certainly true when, for example, I venture to say that we want to take the last major step in the fiscalisation of the AOW. That is something that makes the system simpler and fairer because then AOW income can simply be treated as other income and AOW'ers as well as all other people, but it is something that has very big consequences. And the problem at the moment is that older people's incomes have been under pressure for years and will continue to be affected by the absence of a pension index. This is not because of taxation, but it is also because of taxation. It is right that taxation, even more structural than just for one year, should take account of this almost debilitating calamity. Fiscalisation AOW is reasonable, but it cannot simply happen. By the way, the alternative to the bottom of the system can of course be to choose the basic income, which is actually the AOW. After all, this solves all the problems of cashing in a blow and makes all kinds of surcharges unnecessary. An attractive, but initially not very easy alternative. Worth thinking about, isn't it, Secretary of State? The Finns seem to be able to do it. A real long-term problem, as rightly stated in the Tax Plan, is, of course, the excessive wedge between net labour costs and total employers' costs. This is not only a question of wage taxation, but also of the employer's continued responsibility for sick and disabled workers. Whether or not the Wtl Act and the low income benefit (LIV) included in it can really bring about the position of the low income groups, more than the schemes used so far, seems to me to be the question for the time being, but attention for these groups is not superfluous. This brings us to the arrangements that are not intended for the coming year, but are moving forward on 2017. One such scheme is the contested scheme for box 3. Of course, the criticism is justified that such a major change in the scheme requires a separate treatment and should not have been offered as a small part of the overall plan, not only because it takes an advance on 2017 in the 2016 plan, but also because it is a fundamental adjustment of an important part of the income tax system. This means that we need to be able to say more about this than about changes in amounts and rates, although sometimes they are also quite substantial. I assume that this part of the Tax Plan will be discussed again before this regulation is really valid. We have a year to do that. However, I should like to make a brief comment on this. The current regime is rightly being criticised. For holders of savings accounts, it means that the tax rate is higher than the interest rate and that each percent of inflation makes the loss even greater for the saver. The proposed system where fiction is stacked on fiction will not really please anyone. Only the small saver can be safely said that he or she is in any case getting better, even though the fictitious return is still much higher than the likely actual return. If it is so difficult to trace real realised capital returns and if the choice has to be made as to whether taxes should be levied on capital income or on capital gains, then that is not a simple question either. Why do we not make it easier for ourselves? The current regime is in its form a tax on capital income, but in fact a tax of 1.2% on capital ownership. Is there really anything against turning it into a real and formal property tax? With a somewhat higher level of freedom than is currently the case and with a modest but progressive rate, that seems to me to be a clear, easily verifiable, unobtrusive possibility and, finally, certainly not unfair. Does the Secretary of State agree with me, or does he want to make it harder? If so, does that seem fairer to him? The substantive points in the novelle, in so far as they are not mentioned in the Tax Plan, have not yet been mentioned at all. They didn't really give me any reason to go into that separately. The additional measures contain a number of good intentions; I assume that we will generally see them in separate legislation. Then we still have every chance to really get back to that. I have asked for comments from the Secretary of State on a number of points. I'd love to hear how he'll react to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. I too shall begin by congratulating Mr Van Rij and Mr Köhler. I look forward to the discussions and debates we will have. I liked the fact that in their contribution both said something about a subject close to my heart, namely the position of single-earners or single-earners. It will not be surprising that I hope to speak about this tonight. Today we are discussing the 2016 Tax Plan, the 2017 Tax Plan and the 2019 Tax Plan, at least, that's what it looks like if we include the novelle that still needs to be discussed in the Lower House. After all, the hinge point for support can be found in the novelle. It will be clear that the members of the SGP had hoped for another novelle. We're not gonna have any trouble with that tonight, but we're gonna have to be sorry. Therefore, I cannot ignore this point, especially since the novella that is now before the year 2016, is not a big deal. To be precise, the novelle involves two financial adjustments in 2016 that are directly noticeable for citizens: €100 million for energy saving measures for homeowners and an increase in the tax-free capacity for box 3 by €3,000. For most people, it will not pay off at all in 2016. If you're not a homeowner, you don't show up and if you don't have a piggy bank, then it's too bad! Only for those who have more than €22,000 on the bank, it becomes interesting. Thanks to D66's agreement, they are making a direct advance in 2016 at €0.10 per day. After all, with a fictitious return of 4% over €3,000, on which 30% tax has to be paid, this gives the small saver up to €36 on an annual basis. That's what I saw in the Secretary of State's answers. Spread over one year, this is €0.10 per day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u82	Every penny counts, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u83	Sure, every penny counts. It could have been much worse; I certainly agree with Mr Backer. It could also have been worth €3.60 per year. This will indeed be the case for a number of people, because only if you can save the full €3,000 extra or save it for next year will it yield €36. That's $0.10 a day. That makes it clear to me why this is called the small saver. In order to pay this, the rate is reduced in the second and third instalments of wages and income tax. My question to the Secretary of State is: what is left of that €0.10 per day for someone with a modal income? Once again, I admit that €0.10 a day is much clearer than the amendment that has been floating over the Tax Plan for some time. The aim was to reduce the gap between one and two earners. This involved serious money: a large group, i.e. 1 millionone-earners, would improve €520 per year. For a earner who pays up to €8,000 more tax than two earners, this is an interesting amount. But it wasn't meant to be. The SGP Group's offer during the General Financial Reviews of 17 November to discuss possible support from the SGP Group did not lead to any contact from the cabinet. We have to accept that. However, it still raises a question. The biggest problem, as it turned out at the time, was the alleged job loss. In doing so, we need to take the 35,000 jobs that the 2016 Tax Plan would generate as a starting point. On this point, I disagree with Mr Backer. After my third interruption, I was not allowed to go into the subject further, but at that very moment Mr Backer indicated that these 35,000 jobs would be at risk. The question is whether it is. The response of the Secretary of State to questions from this Chamber shows that the novelle has a marginal effect on employment: the final result is 0.0%. The Secretary of State's conclusion is, and I quote: 'The five billion package will, in the long term, still provide 35,000 jobs with the novelle'. In other words, the novelle does not generate more jobs. This number is still included, and these jobs would have been lost if the gap between one and two earners were reduced. During the General Financial Reviews, I explained in detail that this did not cut wood, because the CPB model did not pass on the amendment that provided for a reduction of the transferable tax rebate until 2028, but rigidly passed on as if the transferable tax rebate would last until 2040. To make it clear that this is a rigid method of calculation, the SGP Group has presented a fictional example to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u84	If I listen to Mr Schalk in this way, he will value the CPB model if it shows that the novelle does not create much new jobs, but does not value the CPB model when it comes to the SGP variant. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u85	Indeed, you almost understood that. I have to say honestly that when I read it in the answer of the Secretary of State, I actually thought: this is just not fun for D66. Now they've got a novelle... no, I'm just gonna finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u86	I can't handle that kind of compassion tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u87	Mr Schalk will finish his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u88	I'm just gonna finish my answer. I saw in the answer that there is some effect, but because the CPB uses these models in a certain way, it simply appears in such an official piece: 0.0%. I was kind of sorry about that, for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u89	I propose to Mr Schalk to form a small working group with Mr Ester to talk to the CPB for various reasons and different outcomes. Then maybe we can do something together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u90	I think that is a very good suggestion and I invite you to join us, Mr Backer. I just wanted to say that I really wanted to make it clear that the method of calculation might be good, but the rigid treatment of such a calculation doesn't really work, by presenting the following fictional example to the State Secretary: suppose that the transferable tax rebate will be increased by €1 in 2016, how many jobs would that cost according to the CPB calculation? I found the answer disgusting: 21,000 jobs. An increase of €1 in the general tax rebate would result in the loss of 21 000 jobs under the current system. In other words, the government needs €5 billion to create 35,000 jobs, and the SGP would lose 21,000 jobs at €1 per earner. Why this example? I would like to mention this in order to point out that the members of the SGP Group wish to consider using and interpreting CPB models in such a way that they do justice to legislative proposals and amendments. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also warmly welcomes the Secretary of State for this, which would have saved him a great deal of work. That is why I would like a response from the Secretary of State on this point. In the meantime, there is still one problem, namely how to proceed with the motion on the single-earners that has been adopted in this Chamber? This motion calls on the government to reduce the gap between one and two earners. In a nutshell, the problem is that up to now one earner has paid up to three times more tax than two earners. However, the 2016 Tax Plan increases this tax by up to five times. And because of the novelle, which also regulates things for after 2016, that difference still grows somewhat. This is a real problem. Everyone knows that it is necessary for some people to build incentives to get them into paid work, but this is one millionone-earners. As you know, research by the SGP shows that these earners can be found in all political parties. Last time, I argued that it concerns seven seats of the VVD in the Lower House, and four seats of the PvdA. For the new coalition companion in this Chamber, D66, it is 9%, and that is good for a seat. That is exactly right, because during the General Financial Reviews, Mr Rinnooy Kan..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... One out of ten. But there is more: 75% of these 1 million people cannot find a job or do not accept a job, because they care for sick children, because they have disabilities or because they want to care for their families. Part of it is forced, or part of it by freedom of choice. But these people don't just get an incentive anymore, this is more like the knot about it. Up to five times more taxes, that's unfair. For example, a earner is punished for his choice and the two-earner is faced with an incentive to choose instead of freedom of choice. That's where the SGP runs into it. This needs to be addressed. For 2016 this seems no longer possible through this Tax Plan. However, the novelle offers some light: it outlines all the contours for the 2017 Tax Plan. Now, the simple question of the SGP is this: will the Secretary of State undertake that the gap between the one and two earner will be substantially reduced in the 2017 Tax Plan, so that the motion supported by eight parties in this Chamber will still be implemented? And is the Secretary of State prepared to send an exploration of the possibilities to this Chamber for the summer of 2016, using real recalculations that do justice to the explorations? Perhaps we could take Mr Backer's suggestion to consider how we should deal with the CPB calculations and their interpretations. Madam President, you are right to point out time and again that the task of the First Chamber is to assess legislative proposals on three points: legality, feasibility and enforcement. The members of the SGP Group are very sorry to note that the 2016 Tax Plan submitted by the government stumbles on the first aspect of legality. We think that chasing the gap between one and two earners is unfair. And I hope the Secretary of State will want to restore this in the coming year, along with us. I look forward to the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u91	Madam President. First of all, like my predecessors, I would like to congratulate colleagues Van Rij and Köhler on their maiden speech. I have once again found that there are differences in starting points, and that will enable me to focus further on the work of this Chamber. I look forward with great interest to working with both colleagues Van Rij and Köhler in the near future. And it starts with the Tax Plan. The members of the VVD Group consider that the 2016 tax package is not a "great tax review." The blueprint for the fundamental revision of the tax system based on the report of the Committee on Taxation of 7 April 2010, the Van Weeghel Committee, and the report Towards an activating tax system of 17 June 2013, by the Van Dijkhuizen Committee, unfortunately did not lead to broad support for a desirable system review in the summer of 2015. Of the three elements to finance a fundamental review of our tax system......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5............................................... 5 Finally, on the basis of the State Secretary's initiative, with his fourth letter of amendment for income policy during the Second Chamber treatment, the purchasing power for all taxpayers increases to a greater or lesser extent by 1.4%. The members of my group have noted with satisfaction the novella which the Secretary of State made on 9 December. has submitted to the House of Representatives. This has created sufficient support for the 2016 Tax Plan in this house. The novelle, which is expected to be adopted in the House of Representatives, refines the positive income policy of this State Secretary. In his letter of 8 December 2015, the State Secretary further stated that he would like to broaden the tax area of municipalities with a purchasing power neutral for citizens. To this end, the government will issue a preliminary draft law before the summer of 2016. Moreover, these announced measures are still not subject to a major tax review. In this connection, I would like to make the following observation. Colleague Frank de Grave pointed out at the General Financial Reviews on 10 November that linking two independent legislative proposals in the Tax Plan 2016 with one legislative proposal coming into force in 2016 and the other legislative proposal in 2017 is undesirable. The improper linking of two tax proposals for two years in a single tax plan could, wrongly, further fuel the idea of, again, a major tax review. Quod nun. The members of the VVD Group voted in favour of the Hoekstra motion of 17 November, which calls on the government to refrain for the future in a tax plan from improperly linking legislative proposals. It is clear that my group believes that the tax package for 2016 is basically simply a regular annual tax plan with a big whipped cream for citizens. After years of increase in charges, the 2016 tax package provides the citizen with financial benefits. That's beautiful. The VVD Group strongly supports this tax package and the latest refinements with the novelle of 9 December. Proposals for a major simplification of our tax system are therefore not on the table. This has implications for the assessment of the 2016 tax package. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this package does not address basic views on the method of taxation due to the lack of legislative proposals for a major revision. The last time the House discussed in principle the establishment of our tax system and the burden-sharing for citizens was the Income Tax Act 2001. That was 15 years ago. However, in the 2016 tax package, the government has seen opportunities for simplification in a number of areas. I refer to an overview of Annex 1, Simplification measures package Tax Plan 2016 to the letter of the State Secretary of 15 September 2015. I would like to mention as an example the simplification of the abolition of annual motor tax payments. Also in 2016 the State Secretary wants to explore possibilities for further simplification. Those possible simplification measures are listed in Annex 2 to the letter of 15 September 2015, entitled "Starting in 2016 and continuing studies for simplification'. An example of a simplification study to be carried out in 2016 is the study announced in that Annex on the simplification of the Small Business Scheme for VAT, known as the KOR. In the opinion of the VVD Group, there may also be simplifications of tax legislation that are more simple. Let me give you an example. The VVD Group does not understand the enforcement of Article 5.10 (1) e. in the Income Tax Act 2001. That provision provides for the capital return charge in box 3 which is cash, electronic money, gift vouchers, etc. for an amount exceeding €517........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is difficult for the taxpayer to remember in 2015 when making his income tax return 2014 whether he turned all the wallets, scraped loose coins and parking money, collected gift vouchers, slaughtered his grandmother's pink piggy bank, etc. on 31 December 2013, and so on, with the aim of establishing whether that amount of €517 was exceeded as of 1 January 2014 and if so, with what amount. The members of the VVD Group ask the Secretary of State if he believes that this kind of gamble can be removed. In the context of simplification of tax legislation, members of the VVD Group assessed the currently proposed anti-abuse provision in the dividend tax under the amended EU Parent-Subsidiary Directive. This anti-abuse clause is complex in its effect in the opinion of my group. This scheme will lead to a significant seizure of the capacity of the Tax Administration in enforcement. The VVD Group called in the preliminary report for a comprehensive overview of anti-abuse provisions for dividends. The State Secretary replied that the time frame available for the examination of the 2016 tax package does not allow an answer to that question. The tax laws, the VVD Group concludes, in response to this reply from the State Secretary, that there are apparently so many anti-abuse provisions for the taxation of dividends that its right to exist can be called into question. Add to this the ruling of the EU Court of Justice of 17 September 2015 in the Million and X case, the comprehensive implementing rules for achieving a reduction or refund of dividend tax under the tax treaties, the question seems justified as to whether Dutch tax law is not served by abolishing that tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u92	I am interested to hear Mr Van de Ven's plea for the abolition of the dividend tax. I am also curious about his opinion on the position of the Netherlands in a broader context. I myself paid some attention to this when it comes to the future of corporate taxation. In particular, I am looking at what other countries are doing around us. We see the United Kingdom, which with its corporation tax goes to 18%. We see Ireland making such a move. By the way, that means broadening the basis. Does Mr Van de Ven wish to include this in that consideration, or does he merely call for the abolition of the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u93	That's a very interesting question. I do not think that this is the case with the average tax advisor, but I think that the determination of profits in the field of dividend taxation is a completely different matter from the taxation of passive money. That could be interest, dividends or royalties. I therefore believe that, contrary to what is happening in the neighbouring countries, with a reduction in the rate, it is much more important that we continue to use the concept of good merchant use. Good merchant use in the Netherlands offers the entrepreneur, large and small, flexibility in determining the profit. All this is determined in the framework of long-standing case law of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, the flexibility offered by good merchant use is a better guarantee for a good locational environment in the Netherlands in the sphere of dividend taxation than a tariff reduction. But I would like to hear the arguments again as to why a tariff reduction would now be so positive. Moreover, I do not think that should be tonight, because you had a follow-up to your question, namely whether I am referring to dividend taxation in this speech. My answer to that is yes, not on corporation tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u94	I am grateful for the lecture given by Mr Van de Ven on good merchant use, but that was not my question. My question was whether he also shares the view that the countries around us are all adapting to a number of international developments to which the Netherlands is also going to adapt. This means, for example, that we get a reduction in interest relief and a reduction in the patent box. That has nothing to do with being a tax advisor or not, that has just to do with the location climate in our country. Do we want to have a tax rate of 25% in corporate taxation or not? Maybe I can simplify the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u95	We are still in the Tax Plan with the discussion, I hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u96	The dividend tax is not included in the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u97	I do think it's a little outside of the Tax Plan. As a result of stacking anti-avoidance legislation, you can have an opinion at some point. In the end, that is also a question for the Secretary of State. You can have a vision of a certain tax. The question is what about corporate tax. Then you come back to the fundamental point of a major review, which not only concerns income tax, but could also concern corporate tax. Then you can also come to themes like: do you have to lower the rate when you see what other countries do? Do you also have to look at and compare with other countries in terms of incentives for scientific research and other well-known incentives in this respect? Right now, I'm talking about the dividend tax. If we end up in a major tax review, I will be happy to discuss it with you. I would like to discuss with the Secretary of State the question of how best to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u98	But that is not the subject of today's debate, Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u99	Madam President, I do not think that is the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u100	I don't think so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u101	I am almost at my conclusion, but still within the fifteen-minute time, I think, Mr President. Abolishing this could reduce the tax administration's regulatory burden and simplify tax legislation, in addition to the simplifications mentioned above. A first concrete measure would also be taken for intensification, with equity capital, of foreign investment in Dutch companies. In this way, the motion for a resolution by Mr Neppérus in part No. 100. from 18 November 2015 to the Tax Plan 2016 can get concrete content. The tax package 2016 and the bill Implementation Act Common Reporting Standard are positive for the citizens' wallet. This offers the citizen prospects and confidence. For the rest, in the opinion of the VVD Group, there is no discussion of principles, given the regular nature of the proposed tax measures. These legislative proposals, as has been said, have the support of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u102	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate colleagues Van Rij and Köhler on their maiden speech. I hope that this will be the beginning of fruitful cooperation. Tonight we are discussing the Tax Plan 2016 package, consisting of five individual legislative proposals, of which the 2016 Tax Plan itself is one. In addition, we include the Common Reporting Standard Act in the plenary session and would like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the Secretary of State some questions about the announced novelle. Like every year, we are very grateful to the Secretary of State and to officials for the hard work they have done in recent weeks to provide careful answers to the questions of the members of the First Chamber. For example, we always see the technical briefing as a very valuable service from the Ministry, for which we are grateful. Back to the 2016 Tax Plan package. This is bigger than it has been in recent years. It includes a EUR 5 billion reduction, a review of box 3, measures against tax avoidance, legislation for international data exchange, wage costs subsidy for low incomes, a solution to the lingering issue of Article 2 fund payments to war victims and many other changes. The PvdA welcomes the fact that the package provides more jobs and much more purchasing power. This year's income policy is aimed at reducing the burden on labour, and my group supports this. At the same time, without intervention, the purchasing power of people who are inactive, especially pensioners, would deteriorate considerably. This is fixed. The total burden relief package covers €5 billion, including €900 million in purchasing power repair for inactive people. The package should create 35,000 jobs. In addition, much is expected from LIV, that people at the bottom of the labour market should get to work. First of all, my group would like to draw attention in general to the way in which behavioural effects are taken into account in proposed tax measures. We are concerned that the estimates of revenue from burdens and liabilities often leave direct behavioural effects out of the picture. In other words, through the macro-economic transfer of the Central Planning Bureau, the impact of all proposed measures on tax and premium receipts, including the behavioural effects of all these measures together, will be calculated. However, this is not the case with the direct behavioural effects of tax measures. As Edward Elferink and Ruud van Schijndel, two researchers attached to the General Court, write in a personal capacity: "It is important at this time that a transparent, clear and realistic justification of the amount to be collected from the measure is available in order to properly conduct the discussion on the usefulness, necessity and impact on the society of the measure." Does the Secretary of State agree with the researchers and my group that information on direct behavioural effects of tax measures could and should play an important role in the various stages of the political decision-making process? If not, why not? If so, what consequences does he have? Then I would like to draw attention to the taxation of capital gains. At present power in box 3 is taxed at 30% on a supposed return of 4%. This is widely regarded as unfair in society, in particular because interest rates on savings accounts are currently much lower. Therefore, there seems to be broad political consensus on the need to revise Box 3. Even about the way: ideally you have to go to a system in which real returns are taxed. Unfortunately, a system in which real returns are taxed is currently not feasible for the Tax Administration. That is why this Tax Plan contains an intermediate form: a system based on the long-term experience that the higher the power, the more return is achieved on it. On this basis, a system has been established that de facto imposes more progressive burdens on assets. The PvdA welcomes this progressivity. After all, in the Netherlands, capital inequality is higher than average: higher than in most European countries, higher than in the United Kingdom and at the same level as in the United States. In addition, there is evidence that in recent years there has been a further increase in capital inequality. At the same time, a multitude of interventions have led to a further reduction in the tax on capital in the Netherlands in the past period. This is below the OECD average. My group supports the Secretary of State's desire to tax real income in Box 2 in the long term. In box 2 as well as in box 3, the actual revenue will be taxed. However, taxing the actual individual returns in box 3 is not yet possible, according to the State Secretary. He will examine the possibilities for this and report to the 2017 Tax Plan next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u103	I hear Mrs Sent say that the real income should be taxed in box 2. They are simply taxed, so I do not think that is the issue at all. They will be charged with vpb. I've been tarfing in this year's Quote 500 and out of the first 100 there are 97 detectable in box 2 with their total power. Of three, it wasn't directly visible in which box they were in. So Box 3 doesn't matter there at all. This is about a completely different category. I wonder what Mrs. Sent is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u104	It is a misunderstanding that I would like to give the impression that in box 2 non-real income is taxed. Precisely with the move towards taxing real income in box 3 there will be more equality in handling box 2 and box 3. We support that, and we want to see that movement make the Secretary of State. I shall put a number of questions to the Secretary of State on this matter in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u105	I think there's been a slight misunderstanding between the parties. Mr Van Strien spoke about the e.g. that is being taxed regularly in box 2, and Mrs Sent referred to the exempted investment firms in box 2. This was addressed in the second letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u106	Thank you very much, colleague. The Secretary of State is investigating possibilities to tax actual returns in box 3 and will report on this to the 2017 Tax Plan next year. My group believes that this is too late to be included in the next package. We therefore ask the Secretary of State to forward the results of this inquiry to this Chamber before the summer recess. My group welcomes the large amendment that has been adopted to discourage the diversion of investors in box 3 to exempted investment funds. Mr Van de Ven has already mentioned this. With the Secretary of State, we consider it important to continue to monitor to some extent the development of the flat-rate returns in box 3 for the level of the flat-rate benefit in box 2. In the coming year, the Secretary of State will pay particular attention to the avoidance possibilities for box 3, where possible measures against this will be part of the 2017 Tax Plan. Here too, we ask the Secretary of State whether it is possible for this Chamber to submit the results of this study before the summer recess. My group would then like to draw attention to the Secretary of State's intention to offset the current RDA benefit through the payroll tax rather than through the profit tax in order to improve the effectiveness of the RDA. The integration of the S&D reduction and the RDA has the effect of reducing the tax regime by 2016 and the S&D reduction consists of a basis for all S&D costs. In doing so, my group, together with a number of other political groups, is, if I understand correctly, concerned about the problem of cashing in small and medium-sized enterprises with few employees this evening. Furthermore, we fear that large multinationals will make disproportionate use of the scheme. For example, large companies are compensated for the reduced net benefit by the removal of the ceiling in the Wbso. Smaller companies are compensated by their R&D expenses falling within the first disc. The result could be that medium-sized enterprises pay the bill of integration. My group considers this to be undesirable. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? The Minister for Economic Affairs has undertaken to monitor closely the impact of integration. We would like to know when the results will be shared with this Chamber. The Secretary of State has promised that if there is no ceiling on large exceedances in favour of large companies compared to the current estimate, compensation will be sought from these companies themselves. We would like to know when the evaluation and consequences of this will be shared with this Chamber. However, prevention is better than cure, as the Secretary of State should agree with us. This can be done by increasing the rate of the second disc from 16% to 18% in the new Wbso scheme and introducing a third disc with a lower rate of, for example, 12% from a minimum of EUR 25 million, i.e. This takes account of the government's concerns against a ceiling, is almost budgetaryly neutral and compensates medium-sized enterprises for the adverse effects of the compensation without worsening the position of smaller companies and multinationals compared to the current situation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make this change? If not, why not? In the course of the written examination of the package before us, my group also drew attention to the possibility of using taxation for start-ups and start-up-related SMEs. In particular, we have called for attention to be paid to the usual wage arrangements, employee participation and the taxation of venture capital from the perspective of the Netherlands as a start-up country. The 2016 Tax Plan does not include any specific measures to promote the start-up and growth of start-ups, but the government has released 50 million in the 2017 budget to stimulate start-ups and SMEs. The next year will examine how this budget can best be used. The framework conditions are also taken into account: feasibility, enforcement and European legal sustainability. We would like to ask the Secretary of State to forward the results of this inquiry to this Chamber before the summer recess. On behalf of my group, I would like to draw attention to a number of issues which require our continued attention. The first concerns the employment rate of women. As a result of our group chairman's involvement in the General Political Reviews, my group considers it desirable to amend legislation and regulations in order to make it profitable for women. Research carried out by the Central Planning Bureau shows that potential two-earners are relatively sensitive to financial incentives. The PvdA of the State Secretary would like to hear the consequences of this. Research carried out by the Central Planning Bureau also shows that lowering rates has a much lower impact than in the past, as the employment rate has become less sensitive to financial incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u107	I put a question to Mr Backer of D66 this evening about the problems of the single and the two earners. Mrs Sent is now also talking about two-earners, and she has focused on women in particular. I have referred to a study, which shows that 125,000 women are one earner. They also have to do with this huge gap. Would Mrs Sent be prepared to consider whether to do something about it in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u108	The gap between men and women is of great concern to us. For example, it means that the proportion of women in employment remains 64%, while in men it is 81%. Women earn 80% of what men earn in business and 90% in government. Only 53% of women are economically independent. We think it is extremely important that this gap be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u109	That is a different gap from what I meant, but Mrs Sent probably already understood that! That is why I refer once again to a group of women who do work, but who is a earner. It has to do with a completely different gap. They are not struggling to get to work in relation to men, but for example because their husband cannot work because of a disability or because he takes care of children. These women have to do with the gap between the one and the two earner, which can sometimes reach five times as much tax. That is a different gap from what Mrs Sent meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u110	Mr Schalk called for attention to be paid to women who are single parents. The figures in the Tax Plan show that single parents with a minimum wage in purchasing power are improving 3.6% as a result of the Tax Plan. That group therefore has the attention of the cabinet and we support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u111	Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u112	Last time, Mr. Chairman. Third time's the last time, so I'm gonna try one more time. Mrs Sent calls the group single people, but I mean the groupone-earners with a household and a partner. There are 125,000 of them. That's a different group than Mrs. Sent meant. That group's just getting out of it. From my point of view, they only advance 1.4%, while two-earned people improve 3.6%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u113	If we fly it from the women's side again: here too, this group is getting out of hand, because only 53% of women are economically independent. Knowing that many marriages are stranded, however regrettable, we consider it important to promote women's economic independence and participation in the labour market. We welcome the contribution that has been made to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u114	Mr Schalk, for once you can try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u115	It gets complicated, because we talk about a different group each time. I really care about the one-earner who hasn't divorced...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u116	You mean a woman who's a breadwinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u117	Thank you, Madam President. So I'm talking about a woman who's the breadwinner, who's not divorced and who's not all that other stuff yet, but who just has a family. But she has one problem: her husband can't work for some reason. 75% of this group simply cannot work, but those women do work and have to deal with the one-earner gap, in which they pay five times as much tax. They would be much more economically independent if we were to put that on a more normal footing. My question is very simple. Would Mrs Sent like to think about this in the coming year, so that we may be able to start a minor repair in 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u118	Then I will stick to the perspective from which we judge it. Well, that's different. I think that the conclusion is the same as in the small debate that Mr Schalk had with Mr Backer, namely that we see other gaps that we consider important to restore. I was at the female employment rate. Lowering rates has much less impact than in the past, as the employment rate has become less sensitive to financial incentives. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State what non-financial measures we can expect from the government to stimulate the employment rate of women. The next point concerns possibilities for further greening. It is clear that my group supports the measures for further greening of the tax system in the Tax Plan. We also welcome the measures in the area of fiscal greening resulting from the letter of amendment of 13 November 2015. Tax greening is also expected to play an increasingly important role in the implementation by the Netherlands of the climate agreement just concluded in Paris. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for this purpose? During the examination of the Tax Plan in the Lower House, various options for further tax greening were exchanged, as we read in the reply. My group is pleased to receive a written assessment of these measures from the Secretary of State. Is he willing to admit this? At the same time, the behavioural economy contributes other, cheaper means that can bring about changes in behaviour in the environment and sustainability. That will do Mr. Prast a good job. With a combination of economic and psychological insights, nature and environmental policy can be improved, for example by responding to status quo effects, impatience, affect, social factors and "nudging." We have already brought this to the attention of the Secretary of State and now we would like to know what the state of play is with regard to the implementation of the greening measures inspired by behavioral economic insights. Finally, we would like to ask the Secretary of State a number of questions regarding the 2016 novel Tax Plan. It has only a small number of measures and we can support them. However, my group has serious reservations about the late submission of this report. After all, this does not benefit the feasibility and enforcement of the 2016 Tax Plan and that while this Chamber has to review legislative proposals on the basis of that same feasibility and enforcement. In addition, the implementation costs also increase as a result of the 2016 measures. To quote from the contribution of my group colleague André Postema during the General Financial Reviews: "The primary review role of the First Chamber must involve more than checking whether the House of Representatives has gotten its way." Does the Secretary of State agree with this? If not, why not? If so, what consequences does he have? My group would also like to draw attention to the announced preliminary draft bill on the extension of the municipal tax area. It is striking that there is a very large difference between perception and reality as regards the share of the various governments in total revenue taxes and premiums. For example, the citizen believes that the share of municipalities is 22%, while the actual share is 3.4%. And so the citizen believes that the share of the Empire is 51%, whereas the real share is 95%. In my group's view, this deserves serious attention in the way municipal taxes are levied. Is the Secretary of State prepared to pay explicit attention to this in the forthcoming preliminary draft? If so, in what way? The PvdA also considers that extending the municipal tax area should not mean greater income inequality. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? If not, why not? If so, what consequences does he have? In doing so, we call for particular attention to be paid to the fact that the levying of resident tax is de-levelling. Does the Secretary of State consider that undesirable with us? If not, why not? If so, what consequences does he have? I'm rounding up. My group supports the closure of the Belgian route. We are pleased with the exemption benefits Article 2-Funds. We hope that with the Compensation Act more jobs will be created for people at the bottom of the labour market. We consider country-by-country reporting to be an important step in the fight against tax avoidance. We therefore wholeheartedly support them. We welcome the anti-abuse provisions to close tax loopholes across Europe. And we see the Common Reporting Standard Act as an important step in the fight against black savers and other tax evaders. To speak with John Maynard Keynes: "The absence of taxes is the only intellectual pursuit that still careers any reward." We'd like to see that different. In order to prevent a debate on other insights from this renowned economist, I have only a few remaining words. The present package gives rise to a number of concerns, as mentioned in my contribution tonight. I hope that the Secretary of State will take this away and look forward to his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u119	I have a question for the colleague of the Labour Party. We are talking about a huge reduction in the burden of 5 billion, which will create 35,000 jobs. I can't wait to see how she feels about that. Does she agree with our group that this is relatively little for that huge amount? Part of this reduction also comes with higher incomes. Is this the tax review the Labour Party had in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u120	What we consider to be important is that the economy is currently extremely fragile. The high level of unemployment is a major concern. This deserves all the attention by promoting purchasing power and employment. It is not just about extra jobs, no matter how many they will be, it is also about additional purchasing power for people who have had a very difficult time in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u121	Of course, part of that purchasing power gain does not end up with the people who are having such a hard time. There is a tax reduction, also in the third disc, for incomes up to over €66.000. Honestly, I don't think that group is exactly the kind of group that's having such a hard time. We know that people who are struggling, for example, work in home care and lose their jobs. My question remains: does the PvdA think that good choices are being made with this Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u122	I'm looking at the numbers. A single person with the minimum wage improves 3.7%, a single parent with the minimum wage improves 3.6%. I am fighting the idea that the tax plan does not improve the minima. On the contrary, it is precisely with the measures on the bottom of the labour market that this group has extra attention in this Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u123	The fact remains that there is an extension of the third disc and a reduction of the tariff. Surely you cannot deny that this group of incomes does not need it, when we know that there are great social needs in the provision of home help and the provision of social services? A lot of jobs are lost there. My question remains: are good choices made here now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u124	In my opinion, it is. I'm repeating myself. The economy is fragile, employment must be encouraged, the bottom of the labour market must be spared as much as possible. A single earner with children and twice as much of a mode progresses relatively less than other income groups, such as social minimums.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u125	Mrs Sent talks about purchasing power development. The same applies to everyone, including the elderly. The State Secretary's replies show that over the last four years, the purchasing power of the elderly has fallen by 10% to 12%. Does it not consider it desirable, from an economic point of view, to do something about this for the future? I have one more question. I had hoped that Mrs Sent would say something about the position of the elderly. She didn't. It has only said at the outset that there is 5 billion relief, of which 900 million for purchasing power repair. Can it confirm that this 5 billion is structural and that 900 million purchasing power repair is only a one-off operation? So that 900 million is not a structural part of that 5 billion. Otherwise, she calls up an image that is completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u126	I've certainly mentioned the elderly. In other words, the purchasing power of older people and beneficiaries will be repaired by nearly 900 million in 2016, including a one-off increase in the elderly discount. After 2016, structural funds are available for the elderly discount, i.e. 200 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u127	That's not an answer to my question. Does Mrs Sent recognise that this 900 million is one-off compared to the 5 billion that is structural? She says that implicitly, but can she confirm that this is the case and that after 2016 there is no structural sharing by the elderly in the 5 billion given every year? That's as clear as I can ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u128	We are discussing the 2016 Tax Plan today. I look forward with interest to the plans for 2017 and the measures they include for the elderly. I have only limited influence on that, so I have to confess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u129	Is Mrs Sent prepared to help with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u130	I'm willing to think with help from a broader perspective. I also have concerns about workers and how they can knit it all around and how minima can make ends meet. I wouldn't want to take out one group and just meet them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u131	I believe that by now we have all developed think groups in the Chamber in all kinds of subjects. That's gonna be interesting. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u132	I shall suspend the sitting for the night's rest until 9.15 a.m. in the morning.
