ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Minister for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mrs Kooiman of the SP, who has requested this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that during the general consultation we discussed the lost talks. There's been an investigation into that. I think I'm just reading the motion because I think it's clear enough. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the investigation carried out by the Audit Service Rijk into the tap malfunction in September 2012, which also did not save the phone call between Teeven and Van Rey, has not provided complete clarity in all respects;]] [[noting that a number of questions remained unanswered, such as the exact cause of the malfunction, why the backup system did not work, why tapping calls did not stick in the buffer, why the system was manually restarted without permission and why no record was made of them;]] [[Whereas these are questions which may be clarified by further in-depth research;]] [[Considers that it is important that this remains as unclear as possible because of the integrity of the investigation and the diligence of the taking of evidence in criminal matters;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out further detailed investigations into the questions which have not yet been answered and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. file/29279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u3	I think the motion is clear enough, so I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u4	At least she was tall. I give the floor to Mr Oskam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u5	Well, Mr. Chairman, you're gonna see it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u6	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u7	That I'll stay in time. Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I have two brief questions on how to deal with hooligans. In the relevant AO on criminal matters, the Minister was asked whether the mayors can be connected to the Football Follow System, not just in the updated version but already in the current one. They now have an important role to play from their responsibility for public order. They already did, but they've been given more powers. Information about rioters is also very important for mayors. The Minister has promised to discuss this with the National Police. Has this already happened as planned, and what has been the result of this? My second question concerns the willingness of BVO mayors, mayors who have a paid football organisation in their municipalities, to use a digital reporting obligation. So far, it's been very disappointing. The Minister said that he would speak to BVO mayors about this at the next mayor's meeting. That was last month. I'd like to know what came out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u8	Maybe you can tell me next month. Thank you very much, Mr Oskam. You have indeed stayed within the time frame. Mr Recourt didn't want to speak anymore. He only wanted to listen, just like Mrs Helder, Mrs Swinkels and Mr Van Oosten. So this has put an end to the term of office. The Secretary of State... no, the Minister! Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. The Minister is ready to answer. I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u9	Mr. Chairman. I have indeed been allowed to take over the role of the Secretary of State today, so I also feel a little undersecretary of state. In that sense, I will certainly not make the mistake of naming you wrong. First of all, I come to the motion by Mr Kooiman, Mr Van Nispen and a number of others on item No. 290. We have held a wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject in general. The Audit Service Rijk (ADR) conducted independent, in-depth and thorough investigations into the malfunction. No evidence was found that there would be deliberate human activity in the occurrence of the malfunction resulting in unidentified calls. Furthermore, no evidence was found that those talks had been deliberately erased, in particular on 20 September 2012, when the meeting of the then State Secretary took place. There is therefore no reason to assume that the malfunction was caused intentionally. It is important that we record this, so that it is clear. In general terms, I have promised a letter. I sent it to the Chamber this afternoon. I have announced that, given the doubts expressed not only by Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group but also by Mr Recourt of the PvdA Group, I would appreciate it if Mr Van Koppen and Mr Jacobs were able to discuss their thoughts, feelings and also Mr Van Koppen's article with the ADR. If new insights emerge, I will inform the Chamber. My suggestion to Mrs Kooiman would be to hold her motion in the light of that letter until I could inform the Chamber of the outcome of that discussion. I assume that will take place in the spring of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u10	If the Minister agrees that he will at least include the points of concern and the unanswered questions in the discussion, I can hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u11	That is, of course, up to the interlocutors, but I will make sure that they know the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u12	Then I'll hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u13	Then there is the football tracking system, which Mr Oskam keeps asking me about with charming persistence, because he knows that like him I am a big fan of the game we are talking about. The renewal of the football tracking system is taken into account in the total ICT attack system of the police. I can inform the Chamber about this in the spring of 2016. I will send a copy of it to Capelle to the IJssel. Until then, the current football tracking system will continue to be used by the partners who are already using it. I have already informed Mr Oskam of this. Municipalities can also consult the system through their partners, especially the police, and the good news is that this is happening. With the entry into force of the new system, municipalities can also use it completely independently. It is well known that the portfolio of the National Police's IT facility is a major problem. I reported that to the Chamber on 23 November. The aim is to deliver the new system in the season 2016-2017 and to do what we expect. I have not yet been able to speak to the mayors about the obligation to report, which Mr Oskam has asked for, but I will inform the Chamber, again with a copy to the municipality of Capelle aan de IJssel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u14	I'm happy about that. In addition to the VVS, the football tracking system there is also the WIS, the walkway information system. From this I understand that there is tension on privacy, that is to say that there are aspects in that system where privacy is at stake. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u15	In general terms, the Minister considers it very important that information be shared in the corridors. Whether that's in line with privacy... no, seriously, I have no idea. If Mr Oskam wishes to do so, I will inform him about it before Christmas. Let me say at least that I will do so before the end of the year, because Christmas is very fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u16	Mr Kooiman beat me to it. I had a question about the Minister's letter and the answer to it is decisive for my advice to the group. In the last paragraph, the Minister writes that the ADR will invite the gentlemen of Koppen and Jacobs if required. I conclude from this that the initiative lies precisely with those two researchers, while Mrs Kooiman's motion calls for an investigation. Is the discussion going to take place now and is it therefore right that the motion should be held?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u17	I understand Mrs Helder's question. The point is that the ADR, together with or without my ministry, asks those concerned if they need to be interviewed and whether they appreciate it. Nor can we oblige people to make conversations. If they want to, they will be invited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u18	Perhaps in abundance I notice the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-22.u19	So we will not be voting on the motion for a resolution for the time being.
