ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u1	Seven speakers have spoken for this debate. The first speaker will make her maiden speech this evening and will taste the pleasure of having her talk for twenty minutes. I can see that she has signed up for twenty minutes of speaking time without being interrupted by fellow Members of the Chamber. We are going to listen with enthusiasm to the story of Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. At the end of her maiden speech, I will suspend the sitting so that we can congratulate her. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. As for all Members of Parliament who are here for the first time in plenary, it is also special for me to be able to make my first contribution to this public debate today. Today we are discussing an amendment to the Participation Act. That law was adopted on 21 February 2014. As a former alderman for social affairs in the municipality of Onderbanken and the municipality of Meerssen, the Participation Act had all my special interest. Long ago, the Liberals started building social legislation in our country. If you'll allow me, Mr President, I'd like to take those present back in time. Thorbecke wrote in 1848 in Article 195 of the Constitution: "The poor administration is a subject of continuing concern to the government, and is governed by the law." Nevertheless, residents of the Netherlands who were unable to take care of themselves were still dependent on charities. In 1854, this was changed by the introduction of the first Act of Arms. The care for the poor became a task of the government from that moment on. It was subject to strict conditions. Only those in need who did not belong to any church were allowed by the government to read: the municipality where one was born to be helped. This legislation can be regarded as the first fundamental social right. On 1 September 1912, an amendment to the Law on Arms was introduced to strengthen cooperation between the aiding authorities. For this purpose, poor councils were set up in the larger municipalities. These poor councils were obliged to obtain information about residents who asked for support. This was already done at the time to prevent the provision of unnecessary help. Under the responsibility of Marga Klompé, the first female minister of the KVP in the centre-right De Quay cabinet, the General Assistance Act was adopted in place of the Armenwet in 1963. This law was a turning point in the social history of the Netherlands. "From grace to justice," Klompé described this radical change. Not only did the General Assistance Act protect citizens from poverty, but this law also gave emancipation a huge boost. From that moment on, women were given the opportunity to become financially independent from their husbands. The then VVD Group greatly appreciated the draft law. The core was to bring the dignity of man to justice as much as possible. During the legal procedure in the Chamber on 2 April 1963, Ms Ten Broecke Hoekstra expressed concern on behalf of the VVD about whether the conditions in the law would be sufficient to prevent abuse of the law. This concern turned out to be real, because in the years that followed, the number of benefits increased enormously, at least more than you might expect from the national economic conditions at that time. The law was not only a last safety net, but also a permanent income provision for many with many rights and few obligations. Only in 2003 was the General Assistance Act replaced by the Work and Assistance Act. The main purpose of that change was to get more people to work. The number of people dependent on a welfare allowance fell steadily under the Work and Assistance Act. However, with the coming of the Work and Assistance Act, it was still possible for someone on benefit to refuse offered work. This changed in 2009. The law determined from that moment on that someone without a job was forced to accept any job after a year. The term "appropriate work" has been deleted. With the coming of the Participation Act in 2015, a great wish of the VVD has been fulfilled. As a result of the further tightening up, a benefit is really a last safety net. People who need support can go to municipalities for a helping hand, but those who can work must get back to work as soon as possible. The law offers room for customization. We are all different, but the law mainly prevents the undermining of our own sense of responsibility. Taking this responsibility away has not been social and inhumane for many years, despite perhaps the good intentions. This is also important for the support in our society, which is needed to continue to help people who really need it. I hear people say, "The government can do it, can't it?" People sometimes seem to forget that we are together with that government, that our good social safety net, known far beyond our borders, is brought up by people who wake up early every day to work, in construction, as a nurse in care, in education, or the vegetable man on the corner. It is all these people who make it possible with their taxpayers' money to maintain a good social safety net. We must be careful about that. Now I'm going to the present law amendment. The VVD took note with interest of the answers given by the State Secretary to the questions raised by the Chamber. To date, I have only spoken in a broad sense about groups of people who were forced, but sometimes also from a comfortable position, dependent on assistance and sometimes for generations. Among this group is also a group of people who are unable to earn the statutory minimum wage on their own due to illness or lack. We must help this group. We must move towards a society in which it is normal and accepted that a person with a disability can also work with a regular employer. Too long have these people been on the sidelines, and we have assumed what someone can't do instead of what someone can. The VVD does not consider it social to lock people into a benefit, not even the group of people with disabilities. I believe that almost everyone in the Chamber agrees with me that work is so much more than just an income. I'm thinking about that nice colleague you meet at work. You come home at night with a story. You can continue to develop yourself. It's good for your self-esteem. Work makes you independent and research shows that work makes people happier. During work visits as alderman, but also as a member of the Lower House, I have seen how proud people with disabilities are when they are just working for an ordinary employer, when they are given the opportunity to develop themselves and if they belong to it like everyone else and are not tucked away behind four walls. Fortunately, there are already many socially involved employers who make room in their company for people with disabilities, from ideological beliefs or simply because they are looking for a motivated person for certain activities. These employers, both large and small, are our ambassadors. Within their own network, they can get at the heart of other employers with positive experiences and thus persuade them to examine the work processes within their own company in order to give someone with disabilities a chance. The present legislative amendment has been made after extensive consultation with De Werkkamer. In this Chamber, parties are represented who stand every day with their feet in the clay to implement the Participation Act. These are also the parties involved in the social agreement, in which agreements were made on the realisation of 125,000 guarantee jobs by both industry and government. The Participation Act is a decentralised law. The Chamber has done part of the work by adopting the law. It is now the responsibility of others to take action. Not only in the short time that I have been allowed to speak on behalf of the VVD on this subject, but also in the period before that, as a municipality leader, I have always held the view that you should give parties this responsibility and that the Chamber should let go of adopting the law. As a result of decentralisation, municipalities and employers have the room to work together to implement the law, to develop new and innovative ways and to give real substance to the goal of creating a labour market in which everyone counts. I realize that takes time. As legislators, we must not be blind and we must pay attention to the signals from the parties involved. Sometimes you have to turn a button carefully to fine-tune an arrangement. The VVD aims to facilitate employers who create additional jobs for the target group when hiring people from that target group. By offering a uniform no-risk policy, employers do not have to fear payment of wages in the event of illness. That is an important point for the VVD. I am pleased that the Secretary of State also recognizes the importance of this. A shift of resources makes the scheme unambiguous and simpler. This helps employers move towards an inclusive labour market. By making the mobility bonus available to the total target group of the job agreement and not only to the Wajong target group, both groups do not have to compete with each other. The VVD assumes that with the present change employers will be better supported in hiring someone from the target group. That is what we want to achieve, that people with disabilities also get to work on the working floors of the Netherlands. You will therefore not be surprised that the VVD can accept the proposal as it stands. I do, however, have two supplementary questions to the Secretary of State which concern the implementation of the law. Before you can offer an employer a no-risk policy or mobility bonus as a municipality, there must of course be a match between the employer and someone who is eligible for a guarantee job. The target groups register includes people who are not considered to be able to earn the statutory minimum wage on their own after being indicated by the UWV. The Secretary of State has previously indicated that, following consultation with De Werkkamer, some changes will be made to the working processes of the target group assessment, which will make it easier to fill the register. However, I am still getting reports that despite these changes in the work processes, the matching between employer and target employee in the target group is not working properly and that employers are losing out. Of course, that's a missed opportunity. Does the Secretary of State recognize these signals? Is it prepared to consult with the Chamber on this matter, to find a solution and to inform the Chamber on this matter? The second question concerns sheltered work offered by municipalities. The media have been paying a lot of attention to this lately. In previous communications on this subject, the State Secretary indicated that the Ministry's inspection will investigate the exact state of affairs. I am very curious to see if the Secretary of State can indicate when they expect the results of this investigation and when we in the Chamber are informed about it. I come to a conclusion of my contribution with a small personal note. I've always had a tremendous urge to stand on my own feet as soon as possible. How can I take care of someone else if I can't take care of myself? Not everyone is lucky enough to be born in a family in which you are deliberately or unconsciously challenged to get the best out of yourself, but you do have every day the choice of how to handle this yourself. My crib was in Rijswijk, not that far from here, in a ten-story flat. I come from an ordinary family, where my mom and dad both worked hard to keep their heads above water. When I got home from school, there was no cup of tea for me, like most of my girlfriends. Did it make me worse? I don't think so. It has shown me that hard work and faith in yourself are rewarded. My father grew up in a jappen camp the first few years of his life. He's known real poverty in those years. With nothing at all he arrived in the Netherlands together with his mother and two sisters at the age of 4.5. I probably do not have to tell you that they were not received with open arms at that time. At the age of 16, his teacher told him to go to the factory with the breadbox on the back of the bike, because according to that gentleman there was no more. My father, however, had other plans. He was convinced that he had other qualities and chose his own path. Like his father, he became a soldier. By working hard, believing in himself and showing respect for others, he eventually became a professional officer, something he is rightly proud of to this day. It is that mentality and stubbornness that I carry with me and have made me the person I am now. Someone who rows against the current when necessary keeps looking at what they can. Someone who takes care of someone else, and even when things are a little bit off, they keep making something out of it. Mr. Chairman. That is the way in which I like to give substance to my parliamentary membership and the public debate in this Chamber and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u3	Mrs. Nijkerken, may I be the first to congratulate you on your maiden speech? May I ask you, Mr President, if you are already on your way, you are well prepared to take your place so that your colleagues can also congratulate you and, of course, the family members who are present?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u4	I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP, who has also signed up for twenty minutes, but who may of course be interrupted if one feels the need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to congratulate Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan on her maiden speech. When I hear the characteristics that you all possess, the debate here in the Chamber must be totally fine. I also see that you have a far-reaching understanding of the difference between the classical liberals and the neoliberals. I hope that together we can achieve a little more classical liberalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u6	Is that a promise from Mrs Karabulut for the SP Group's approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u7	Mr Van Weyenberg is, unfortunately, also one of the neoliberals, but that can also change. I see he's very excited. Participation, participation, participation. It's almost written on the forehead of this Secretary of State. A vegetable garden here, caretakers there, a real Participation Act that should provide inclusion, equal opportunities, more jobs and a better life for jobseekers, disabled people and also young people with disabilities. Sounds good, but tastes bad. Especially in combination with the 3 billion in cuts in employment, income and support for these groups. Let's take a look at the practice. What does this practice look like after years of preparation? Indeed, it is the law that comes out of the box of a liberal designer and introduction now almost a year later? I asked people this morning about their experiences. I would like to put some of the reactions and, above all, questions to the Secretary of State. I hope she's willing to answer all of them. I don't get all the questions, I say for the people who follow it, but I'm going to do my best. Citizen's participation in parliament through the parliament, I do not think the Secretary of State can get it any better. I'll start with the questions about the young disabled. Why, one wonders, do Wajongers who already work receive a penalty discount of 5% on their benefit? Are you proud, ask someone else, to cut 5% of the benefits while there is no job guarantee? How is it that a municipal official, not always a professional, decides whether or not someone is able to comply with certain obligations? Young people are getting into hopeless trouble with the new law. Why, again, is another question, don't higher-educated Wajongs get a job at level? What is the Secretary of State doing to support disabled people who can earn more and have higher education, but not always get the opportunities and the job? Will the Secretary of State 50-plus-Wajongers and groups from 2004 perhaps exclude the re-evaluation operation? Why bully these people, the questioner asks, when they have no perspective? Then we'll talk about the family allowance. Is it true that your law governs that the caretaker who takes her father into her home is reduced to her welfare allowance? When, is another question, does the Secretary of State remove the care allowance from care relationships? Can the cost-sharing standard be abolished so that my child can just live with me if he wants? Now I come to a series of questions about social employment, because there are many things happening and there are also great concerns. How long does Mrs Klijnsma allow the gossip around SW company Hameland and the SW'ers in the Achterhoek to continue, that is the question. Would the Secretary of State agree that the people who are now posted through the social workshops are mainly posted through the SW and have little chance of getting other jobs? What indication does the cabinet have that social workshops will not be needed in the future to help vulnerable people to work? What about the collective agreement for the social workshops? People who work in social workshops have jobs, don't they? Why do these jobs ultimately have to die out? You know, someone else is asking how hard SW'ers are financially? Since the arrival of this cabinet, many have deteriorated considerably. How many people have been recruited by your department and how much work has been outsourced by the government to SW companies? Finally, a series of questions on assistance. Could the Secretary of State tell me how, as a healthy 43-year-old HBO-WWB, so welfare worker, I could still get a paid job? Why should I, as a healthy welfare seeker with over 20 years of work experience, gain unpaid work experience far below my level? Why are job seekers using WWBs without a job handicap in former social workshops? When will the money-consuming unemployed industry be put to an end? This is just a selection from all the responses and questions that have been asked. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to answer them all without referring to the municipalities. Why does the Participation Act as it looks so far exactly the opposite of what it promises to do? In fact, there is no analysis of the target group, of the labour market, of demand and of supply. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? I ask a lot of questions and there are many developments in the country. Moreover, we have been informed in the last few months that it is not going well. The results of all kinds of studies also indicate this. In the meantime, I wonder if the Secretary of State still wants to be in charge at all. In May of this year, for example, a broadcast by Nieuwsuur showed that of the 11,000 people who were on the waiting list for a place in the social workshop at the end of last year, almost no one had a job. What's going on with that? Figures from the CBS show that the introduction of the Participation Act has led a large number of young people with disabilities to receive direct assistance. This explains the increase in the number of beneficiaries of assistance. How many of these young people have been helped and what does the Secretary of State do to reverse this development? There was a riot around the Secretary of State's press release just before the summer in which it said that 11,000 additional jobs would have been created. After a lot of scrambles and after a lot of letters had been sent over and over again, it became clear that at most only half of that number of jobs is involved. Moreover, most of these additional jobs, if you can see them as additional jobs, have been created through the social workshops. What does this tell the Secretary of State? What conclusion does it draw? At Cedris, the umbrella organization, they say: there are actually even fewer, because we have only issued 416 indications. So it went from 11,000 to 416 new indications. Can the Secretary of State tell us how many unemployed disabled people who were not at work have been helped to work? I'd like to see this question answered tonight. This is the key question and I have still not received an answer to it. Actually, I demand that the Secretary of State can answer this question tonight. Can she tell us what kind of jobs this is about? Are they sustainable jobs? Is this a matter of temporary contracts? There is also a lack of insight into this. Municipalities also receive less and less money for employees of the social workshops. For many years there has been talk of a collective agreement for the SW sector. Such a collective agreement has still not been concluded. That's what we just heard from the questions. People turn out year after year, and there's no prospect of improvement. This applies to the municipalities, but especially to the people involved. What's going to happen with this? Another urgent problem is the development of certain SW companies. These are often well-established SW companies. I just mentioned Hameland in the Achterhoek. A while back, I went to that company. It's a super-good running company. They innovate there and they do a lot of things. But municipal authorities perform it to decide that the company needs to be shut down, while there is no good alternative. When I present this to the Secretary of State, she says, "Yes, I don't know." This is unacceptable! You can delegate cases, Mrs Nijkerken said so already, but it is unacceptable if problems are thrown under the new law on fence. People are in uncertainty because of that. Let me give you another example. Dethon in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen is once again a very successful company that provides a lot of jobs. They work with companies and they do what they can. But there too, there is uncertainty. For example, there should have been a regulation on sheltered work, but it is not yet there. What does the Secretary of State do with this fact? In recent times we have also seen the usual play where there was a tip to distribute. Mr. Kerstens calls out: yoo, yoo, yoo, there's 20 million extra for sheltered work. Is that right? Mr Kerstens is showing off this now, but there are all sorts of reports on this in the media. Can the Secretary of State clarify this in Parliament? She doesn't have to do that for us, because she doesn't want to share that information with us, but she does for the people who have heard these messages and want to know what's going on. Is this money going to be structural? There's gonna be 650 million cuts. How many places can you realize of this at all? But more importantly, the main problem is that the Secretary of State says: municipalities, you do not necessarily have to arrange these sheltered workplaces in this way. That's not a legal obligation. Will the Secretary of State now legally guarantee that these 30,000 places will actually be realized and that all the money will be earmarked for that? In fact, there is still a lot of money to be paid instead of all the wipes that are now coming at us. Then I'll get to the instruments. The Participation Act has been introduced, but there are still a lot of instruments and, above all, a lot of money needed for employers to get people working at all. The mess with numbers and placing people in booths are anything but beautiful. In theory, that was not the intention of the Participation Act. In practice, that is the result. That job deal where the numbers were messed up is not nice, especially when well-functioning SW companies are made death homes. The fact that certain jobs with a collective agreement, protection and pension, including for people with disabilities, are being transformed and reduced to precarious jobs is not a good thing either. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State says: a number of instruments to ensure that new jobs are created in business as far as possible must be aligned, because with the UWV, the one government organisation, they are put together differently than with the municipality. That's gonna get in the way of fake competition. Harmonizing is what it's called. That's fine in itself. These are the mobility bonuses (a bonus discount for employers), the no-risk policy (compensation in the event of illness of employees) and the third wish: the job coach per company. But why is some of the people with disabilities not eligible for these instruments? Why does the only scheme that has been proven to be successful stop the no-risk after five years of existence? And why is the mobility bonus not properly evaluated? Why is there no legal regulation and harmonisation of the job coach? And why does it all have to be within the budget, which was a wish of the VVD? What if you could use more resources to get more people to work? Is that out of the question? We discussed the target group for a very long time during the quota legislation. Part of it, people who can earn the statutory minimum wage on their own but have a structural limitation, do not have access to the target population register. Does that mean that this group cannot make use of the instruments we are discussing here? Why is that? Is it true that this makes it less attractive for employers to employ these groups? How does the Secretary of State explain that to the people themselves? She argues: municipalities have to do so themselves; they have alternatives. But how much does the Secretary of State see the chance that municipalities will actually do this? I have an amendment in preparation to broaden that target group so that all those who need support can actually make use of it or be supported, including financially in the form of grants to employers. I say "grant to employers," so it's possible, even for the VVD. We are surprised that this bill does not provide for harmonisation of job coach provision. The Secretary of State refers to agreements that UWV and municipalities can make with each other. But how hard are these agreements and how will this work out in practice? What does it change in practice when municipalities join the UWV's policy? The SP considers it important to harmonise the provision of jobs, because it is so consistent, but also because it is a necessary tool to help many young people with disabilities. On this point, too, I am considering tabling a motion. A no-risk policy applies to cases where a worker with a disability becomes ill. In such cases, the employer shall be compensated, which shall remove a risk. The bill lasts five years, after which the policy disappears. Why abolish something that works well after five years? Is it clear what impact this has on the target group of the Participation Act? Or is it just to do the government again to stay within the budget, to be able to move forward for a number of years, to get jobs and to deal creatively with the numbers? After all, it'll be done. I do not think it is wise to include a horizon clause, which means that the scheme will expire after a number of years, in the legislative proposal. I would like the policy to continue in principle unless an evaluation to be carried out shows that it would not work. You can always cut her off. On this point, too, I come with an amendment. The amount of up to €7,000 for three years for the mobility bonus will be reduced to €2,000. There is no transitional arrangement. This is such a hugely lower amount of money, a reduction of 75% that I wonder if this might not have any effect at all. Otherwise the bonus would have been much lower; that would have saved us a lot of money. On what basis does the Secretary of State base her assumption that it will continue to work equally effectively? What I have some difficulty with at the moment is that the effectiveness is unclear at all. I think that effectiveness is quite unproven. Does the Secretary of State wish to evaluate the effects of the mobility bonus after three years? I will table an amendment to that effect. I started my speech with a number of questions. I would like to end my speech with a question from professionals in practice about the mobility bonus. These are labour experts and experts from special secondary education. They have a dilemma. Young people coming from special secondary education are given an indication of "learning disability." An employer can then receive a bonus of €7,000 for three years. But with this bill and the Participation Act, those who will no longer be eligible for wage costs subsidies after three years. Because the reasoning is: someone has earned the WML independently for three years and is therefore excluded from the target group register. According to these experts, there is a real risk of someone getting a place in the assistance rather than being able to work with support. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? The other side of the story is that if you have someone indicated for the target group register, the employer can get a bonus of €2,000 for three years under this bill. The municipalities then supplement this to the WML from the wage cost subsidy, but the student is then in the target register. Is he or she ever gonna get out of there? Maybe in the long run someone can grow independent into that WML. As said before, these experts have a dilemma: they have to decide what someone can or should go and see if someone can achieve the WML independently. Now they do so in a clear way with one regulation. They want clarity on this point. Do they even have to make these choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u8	I learned in high school that stupid questions don't exist. I don't know if I'm sinning against that with my question, but I'm going to ask him anyway. It will be a surprise for few that Mrs Karabulut has made it very clear in her contribution how her party stands in relation to the Participation Act. But how does the SP view this bill? The Chamber has asked for two means to be harmonised. Does the SP intend to support The Chamber's proposal, as laid down in the bill? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u9	There are no dumb questions. If there are, you'd better ask them, it'll be solved immediately. The idea that you make instruments more workable and equal, because we are one government, I wholeheartedly support. So I certainly support the idea behind that. However, we have a number of critical questions, so I await the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u10	I hope you will have it tonight, but first I will give Mr Pieter Heerma of the CDA the floor for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u11	Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the government intends to harmonise a number of instruments at the request of De Werkkamer to remove an uneven playing field between municipalities and UWV and to improve the provision of services to employers within the Participation Act. It's about the no-riskpolis and the mobility bonus. That's fine. One might wonder whether harmonizing these instruments is not at all at odds with the idea of decentralisation. However, if, from De Werkkamer and from the municipalities themselves, the request to harmonise this is so explicit, then I think it is a good thing that it is happening. Especially since the objective of the Participation Act is to create a single system for the bottom of the labour market. I think that we all have doubts about whether there is a single regulation and whether there is no competition within the target group. That is specific because the UWV with the Wajanger is about a different instrument than what the municipality is about with the Participation Act. Especially with regard to the no-risk policy and the mobility bonus, this is now partly resolved by this proposal. However, the same argument with regard to the unequal playing field and thus the risk of competition within the target group if there is no single scheme for the bottom of the labour market is also reflected in the discussion on wage dispensation and wage wage subsidy. Wage dispensation runs through the UWV and wage costs subsidy through the municipalities. Does the Secretary of State share the view of my group at least that, looking at the instruments of the Participation Act, the difference between labour cost subsidies and pay dispensation may be a greater reason for an uneven playing field within the target group? Would it not be logical, in line with this law, to look at harmonisation in this respect as well? We have been holding discussions with this Secretary of State on the possibility of paying dispensation for municipalities for some time now. Following questions from both the D66 Group and the CDA Group on the report of this bill, the Secretary of State referred again to the negative letter following the Heerma motion on the possibility of pay dispensation in municipalities. She also referred to the investigation of the Van Weyenberg/Herma motion by the same law on the comparison of the instruments of remuneration dispensation at UWV and wage costs subsidy in municipalities. However, I could not find that in the note on the report when we get that investigation. Perhaps the Secretary of State can state what the deadline is for this. Perhaps she has already given it and can refresh my memory, because I think this discussion will continue. That is why this investigation on the occasion of the motion is a very relevant test moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u12	Mr Heerma knows by now that the basically bad thing about the instrument is pay dispensation that allows you not to keep the statutory minimum wage. It is even more important that workers should be deprived of rights. I am surprised at the fact that Mr Heerma is still holding on to this. Why doesn't he argue for the introduction of wage subsidies at UWV, with which you do manage all these matters, for those who are now receiving pay dispensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u13	That's the interesting thing about this discussion. That pay dispensation has been in place at the UWV for a long time. There are a lot of Wajongers working on that pay dispensation. They have work to do with it, while otherwise they would not have a job. I also said in the last debate to Mrs Karabulut: if the SP is so fundamentally against this, it must also remove pay dispensation from the UWV. Then she has to submit an amendment to the budget, or anywhere else, to say: we are done, because we are opposed in principle, not only to the municipalities, but also to the UWV. That's a consistent line. My line is exactly the other way around. I would prefer people to have a chance on the labour market through pay dispensation rather than through wage subsidies to have a potential higher wage, but not in practice a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u14	If Mr Heerma had been paying attention, he would have seen it, but perhaps he has forgotten it for a while, it can and may be, because so many of our amendments and proposals are coming along, because we are diligent. We have, of course, advocated and proposed this before. My question to him is: if you know that the rights of workers with disabilities, who are already less well placed on the labour market and already have lower wages, are further weakened by pay dispensation, why is the CDA not prepared to argue the other way? Why does it always have to be for less and cheaper? Mr Heerma says that with wage subsidies they do not get a job and with pay dispensation they do. Where does he get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u15	That is perhaps what the evaluation I am asking the Secretary of State for will be conclusive about. I believe that several parties to this legal process have asked why we are not giving both means. Then it can become visible in practice what works better. I am convinced that an in-depth evaluation will show that pay dispensation in many cases leads to employers being willing to hire someone and that it is a more effective way to have a job rather than a benefit. That is ultimately what this law is for. You can say that a job with pay dispensation is not good and not social. I think that's kind of social. I'd rather have people with pay dispensation on the job than with no pay dispensation stuck in a benefit. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to disappoint Mrs Karabulut. I will continue to have this discussion in every debate, because that is how we stand in it. I am therefore looking forward to the answer of the Secretary of State on when we can look forward to this evaluation, this study following the Van Weyenberg/Heerma motion. Then the scope of this bill. Mrs Karabulut has already spoken about it. It has tabled an amendment to item No. 9. People who are not covered by the job agreement, but who are under the quota, do not count for this law. The group of people with disabilities who could earn the minimum wage by means of benefits will only be shown when the quota is activated. The question remains with me as to whether this distinction is justified. Isn't there a clearer signal to employers if we let them count? Otherwise, you're telling employers that this person with a disability doesn't count for the job deal, that they don't get a no-risk policy or a mobility bonus, but when the quota comes, he'll count or it'll help to avoid a quota. No doubt the Secretary of State will respond to the amendment to item No. 9 of the SP Group, but after reading the written reply I am curious to see what the argument is for choosing this rather than for a more unambiguous signal to the employers. As far as the signal to employers is concerned, I wonder if the Secretary of State is also getting signals that employers who had the intention to work on a workplace that is more inclusive are threatening to drop because they no longer see the forest through the bureaucracy or the rules of the legislation. Despite pressure, no match can be made, as Mrs Nijkerken has already mentioned, and these companies are not provided with people. Or they get people delivered, but these do not get the stamp of the target register of the UWV. This also affects the discussion about the flower seed sorters that we had with each other before the summer. In this context, I am also curious about the implementation of the motion which has been widely supported by the Chamber for the summer, in which the following has been requested. If that target group register does not work, it can also be opened up to those working with a wage subsidy, for whom a validated wage value measurement has established that there is a reduction in wage value. This would probably remove some of the thresholds that employers run into. I am curious to see what is going on here, because the motion that has been adopted on this point states that something must be done about it this autumn. That's it now. I see the Secretary of State looking economical, but I'm curious to hear her answer in the first term. Then I move on to the subject of "safe work." In her term, Mrs Karabulut mentioned the euphoria of John Kerstens, the spokesperson of the PvdA group, who, following leaked reports, mastered that extra money would come for sheltered work. Now I think we all expect what the Secretary of State is going to say about money that is possible in the budget. That is a bit of a flaw in this debate. In the last week, Cedris was the alarm clock about sheltered work. There should be 1,600 workplaces, but if there are 100, there are many. Cedris advocates opening up a no-risk policy to sheltered work and exempting transition fees. As far as this is concerned, I'm curious if the Secretary of State can say anything more about the money that's being released. Is this gonna solve any problems? How does she view Cedris' plea about the problems that now exist with sheltered work? Cedris isn't just talking about the no-riskpolis and the transition fee. The association also identifies the bureaucracy of the law and the method of working at the UWV as a problem. Today, I too received signals about this, including through social services. Municipalities wishing to bet on sheltered work, and assigning people to this is not commonplace, according to a tour of municipalities................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These people don't count. This is a similar discussion to that of the target groups and flower seed sorters and the "deck bedbugs." So I'm curious how the Secretary of State looks at Cedris' plea, but I also like to hear a response to the signal that municipalities that are committed to sheltered work get a no from the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u16	I'd like to focus the image for a moment. The workplaces for sheltered work are almost entirely paid by the government. €28 000 would be released per workplace, but this amount has been reduced to €22,000. That amount is insufficient. Am I to understand that the CDA, on top of that, wants to provide an additional subsidy to employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u17	I referred to a plea Cedris made last week. She made a plea for the opening of the no-riskpolis to sheltered work. In the note on the report, you can see that the CDA Group, but in my view several groups, have already asked questions about the note of this bill. What about the sheltered work? Can you remove barriers by dropping sheltered work within the no-riskpolis? In addition, I wonder at all whether sheltered work will be realized within the framework of this law, even now that there is extra money. We are also in the dark about what really happens to that money. The legal treatment has already been discussed that the social agreement, within the sheltered work as formally laid down, will give the target group with the lowest wage value in potential the highest wages. I wonder if it will actually work in practice, even with that extra money. I think that municipalities that will not offer formally sheltered work do feel the obligation to do something for the target group that depends on a sheltered working environment. In Tilburg, for example, there was a discussion about this. That's part of decentralisation. We shall see how that will work out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u18	What does the CDA Group say now? You share with me that there are major problems and that it does not work in practice. You're asking questions. For example, you can ensure that the social workshops are restored. Covered work was part of that, but that has now been pulled loose. If you restore the social workshops, you can combine a stronger group with a weaker group. Then it's viable. However, you can accept it. Then you accept the law for which you voted, in which municipalities are given the freedom to regulate it or not, themselves, through daily spending, or through the employer. I cannot tell from your speech what the CDA Group stands for. Are you saying SW companies, including the sheltered work, are functioning? We see in practice that they achieve most postings and placements, so perhaps the current law and the decisions we have taken are not so sensible. Are you saying we should reconsider it? Or are you saying that now that we have taken that path, we should continue with it, perhaps with a little more subsidy for the employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u19	I think Mrs Karabulut is asking two questions. The first question is: what am I asking? I'm asking the Secretary of State to respond to Cedris' suggestions. That's what we do in debates like this. We ask questions to the cabinet, because the social employment services have made a plea. It sees bottlenecks and proposes solutions to them. That's what I'm asking questions about. In addition, the division: are you for option a or for option b? Do you choose door one or door two? In the summary given by Mrs Karabulut, I choose door two. I believe that this law is going to work. I do not believe that if we return the old SW provision, as the SP Group advocates, this will lead to an improvement. Cedris indicates the way in which municipalities implement sheltered work, that half of the municipalities, half of their members, have not yet taken a decision on the implementation of sheltered work. Does the Secretary of State also see that many municipalities with everything that has come to them, the decentralisations, everything that took place on 1 January, are still looking at how they can fill this out? How does she assess this trajectory? Is she also positive about the fact that there are municipalities looking for alternative ways to do something for this target group? Or does she say: no, it really has to go through the frameworks of this law and we are only focusing on the formal sheltered work, as agreed in the social agreement? I'm finishing up. I'm running out of time, too. I think it is fine that there is a legislative proposal here that will harmonise a number of instruments. I also believe that this will be supported by Parliament. The proposal creates a more level playing field between UWV and municipalities and it actually brings one scheme for the bottom of the labour market closer. However, I still have doubts as to whether the results in practice will correspond to the figures that have been suggested. In last summer's discussion it has been pointed out that the figures on paper will be more beautiful if you count enough things. Mrs Karabulut mentioned this as well. It reminds me of the fairy tale of the emperor's clothes. Is it really so beautiful when you start looking at what the numbers actually are? Is it not a question of whether we should not get rid of the turds, as provided for in the quota law, and whether we should not move towards more positive incentives and freedom of policy for municipalities, as this has also emerged in the debate we have had on the quota law? We must at least avoid that if the figures are not so good in practice, we will be making even more tighter legislation from The Hague, reducing municipalities to some sort of local implementing bodies based on a blueprint devised in The Hague. In any case, I hope that we will do the opposite and that we will look at pay dispensation and the operation of sheltered work as formally laid down. I hope that we will then make choices to give these municipalities more confidence instead of even tighter frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u20	Mr. Chairman. Today, I will resist the temptation to conduct the entire debate on the Participation Act and the creative accounting with figures. I will really limit my input today to the instruments that are the subject of the legislative proposal. I see now the disappointment on Mrs Karabulut's face; I am sorry to disappoint her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u21	Well, I guess I'll just ask you a question about that. Mr Van Weyenberg has rightly been very angry about it and the D66 Group has asked questions about it together with other groups. What does Mr Van Weyenberg think of the results of the Participation Act, which he has been a warm supporter of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u22	I see it's a very early day. I have seen that 4,000 jobs have been created by companies in the years of the deepest crisis. I thought that was rather encouraging, but we're still a long way from here. I saw a job drop in the government for people with disabilities. I found that deeply sad, and you have heard me say that before. It also shows what an enormous task this Secretary of State still stands for. It was remarkable, moreover, that she congratulated the driver, Mr Spigt, on his contribution to the figures in the letter in question, while the best man had not even been appointed at the time of these figures, but this aside. So I was optimistic. I think we made a clear agreement on the postings. I note that the Secretary of State has sent a letter to change all those rules around that count. We have to talk about this again, but it does not make me very happy to change the calculation rules during the ride so that the figures get better. I'm not a big fan of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u23	In short, your anger is not that bad, you are satisfied with some of the figures and some of the results and the rest of the problems, namely the SW companies that are falling apart, the problems with the sheltered workplaces, the cost of care and the growing poverty, do not at the moment involve you in your assessment of the functioning of the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u24	With all due respect, Mrs. Karabulut wanted to leave everything as it is. We have discussed this with each other, and she knows that I do not agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u25	That wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u26	I now hear a very strong plea from Mrs Karabulut: let us now talk about jobs, jobs and job seekers, as mentioned in her election programme. As far as I'm concerned, we're not going to talk about that today. I like to talk about it at another time. There's now a bill before us that we have to decide on. I am extremely dissatisfied with the presentation of the figures. Mrs Karabulut knows that, too, so it's a little faint what she's doing now. The core of the SP is either it's all dreary or it's the SP way. Those are the only two flavors. That's not my angle. My approach is that I'm very critical of the count. There's still a lot to be done. We're damaging that file by charging us too early. I said that, and I still support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u27	Then I have an enlightening question. We voted in favour of the Participation Act. I will come back to a number of things that certainly need to be improved. Mr Van Weyenberg himself used the term "creative accounting" in the summer. That's quite a reproach. If that were said to me as a ruler, it would make me uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u28	That's critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u29	It goes beyond criticism. It suggests that there's more to it than that, that things are being covered up. I find it special that Mr Van Weyenberg does not say anything about this now. He used that term. Has he been changed by the answers to the questions sent by the Secretary of State this week, or is his term still valid and does he think something should be done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u30	I would like to comment on the letter we are receiving, but its content is not included in the current proposal. I note that the Secretary of State is now making a proposal to amend the accounting rules. In this I see a confirmation of the fact that the inclusion of all those posting jobs for 2013 and 2014 was not in line with the agreement made. I did call that creative accounting and I do not take back the letter. We will discuss the proposals of the Secretary of State, but I have great difficulty in adjusting the accounting rules during the journey. I see the Secretary of State is doing that now, and I'm not a fan of that. We made an agreement about 125,000 extra jobs. Detachments in the ZW may count if there is sheltered work. I believe that this is obvious and I am therefore not convinced by the answer given by the Secretary of State in the report. I'll talk about that with love, but I'll stick to the agenda for a while. I see that the President is also getting more and more into her chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u31	I understand from the Registrar that the letter was discussed today at the procedural meeting and that it was agreed that it would be discussed in detail at a later date. I would like to give you a brief clarification, but my proposal is that the subject of the letter should not be discussed in detail in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u32	I believe that, even in the case of a legislative proposal, we can deal with all the issues we want. In fact, I have just heard Mrs Karabulut mention 25 subjects, which were not all about this law, but I shall say euphemistically. This is a reproach, a rather heavy reproach, which has been made and which is in relation to this law. Mr Van Weyenberg now says that he is not a fan of adjusting the accounting rules halfway through the journey. That's what's happening now. Then there is the opportunity to at least give a different statement about this and perhaps change the government's mind. That is my point and I think I always have the opportunity to do so in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u33	I am absolutely not denying Mrs Schouten's right to ask me that question. The question was why I didn't go into this in detail myself. I'm not doing that because we put that letter on the agenda right now. At the initiative of D66, all kinds of questions were asked about these accounting rules. Mrs Schouten asked me if I was convinced by the answer that counting those 6,000 jobs was right. My answer to that question is no. That's two things. Firstly, I see that the Secretary of State changes the accounting rules after the debate that has arisen on this issue. Secondly, because of the proposals that are before me, I am absolutely not convinced of the idea of suddenly taking up jobs in spite of previous agreements. I'd like to talk about it at another time. I can talk about it for hours, but I'd like to confine myself to the bill now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u34	I'm getting a little curious right now. Is D66 the biggest problem now that the Secretary of State counts creatively, or the fact that it is necessary to count creatively because the results are lagging behind because the frameworks are too tight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u35	On a number of points, together with Mr Heerma, I have tried to create additional space. I am thinking, for example, of pay dispensation and job coaching. I always want to see how we can organise things in such a way that these jobs really get there. That's the point. The debate on the census is about whether we are on course or not. There is still a very long way to go. I've seen that 4,000 jobs have been added to companies. That's a start, even if it takes a lot more. But in the government, I've seen a job drop. I found that a sad observation, and I hope that Mr Heerma is of the same opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u36	It's an interesting choice anyway. Are we looking at the content of how we can improve the frameworks so that more people get a job, or are we criticizing the way the Secretary of State counts? In my view, anger should be more focused on the first point; then we hardly have to discuss the second point anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u37	This is a nice experiment by Mr. Heerma. He pretends those two points contradict each other, but I think you can do both. We need to make the rules so that these 125,000 jobs can be created and that the most vulnerable group in municipalities is also getting started; that is 30,000 places. Especially that's what we need to talk about. At the end of this year we will check whether we are on track enough. We even have the instrument of quota in hand, which Mr Heerma is so incredibly opposed to. Then we'll measure. We need to see how we can make it easier for companies, municipalities and the UWV to get these people working, but we need to count according to the agreements made. I don't think that's wrong with that. That is what we do on every subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u38	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u39	Actually, I'd like to start with that now. After this barrage of interruptions, I would like to congratulate Mrs Nijkerken on her maiden speech. Of course, I have heard her speak regularly in other debates, so it was not the first time for colleagues. I had a small feeling of jealousy, because my maiden speech was a three-minute debate, also important thirty-member debate, requested by Mrs Karabulut. These are always important debates. Then I had to stop it all in three minutes. You had chosen a better one, I say kindly to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. Back to the case. For the sake of clarity, my group also thinks it wise that we should look for harmonisation in the no-risk policy and the mobility bonus. That seems to me to be in everyone's best interest. It is good that agreements have also been made on this subject. Mr Heerma rightly said that you can ask yourself whether it is not strange that municipalities here give up policy freedom for harmonisation, but I also think it is an ultimate sign of self-confidence and of finding an effective way to increase the opportunity for people to get to work. I, too, have questions. For the sake of clarity, when it comes to the instrument of pay dispensation and wage costs subsidy, the research into the comparison between these two instruments and the question of when it comes to the question of when it will simply be in line with Mr Heerma's questions. Of course, I'm curious when that investigation will come. This is, of course, something that also affects the playing field; that seems to me to be a fact. One thing has surprised me in the written answer. The mobility bonus of up to €7,000 for Wajongeren now goes back to €1,800. When my group asked the Secretary of State if she was not afraid that it would give fewer people a chance, the answer was: no, it doesn't matter what the opportunities are. Then I got a little uncomfortable. Apparently it doesn't matter at all whether you give a mobility bonus of €1,800 or €7,000. This raises some more fundamental questions about the effectiveness of that instrument. I am convinced that the mobility bonus has added value, but how can it be that apparently it doesn't matter at all if you really make the amount much smaller? I still need an explanation from the Secretary of State. With regard to the target group of the employment agreement, I have also looked with interest at Mr Karabulut's amendment. It is no secret that my group is concerned that a group which cannot earn the minimum wage on its own without a provision, but with a provision, does not count for the job deal. We have already debated this with each other in this Chamber, but an amendment has been adopted, widely supported in this Chamber, that if the quota law ever came into force, the quota levy in particular, the target group would be widened. This group, which has already been restricted at a young age, but which still needs a little help in order to earn the minimum wage, should not fish behind the net. This raises the question of why you do not want to make available the fine instruments we are discussing today to this group. The answer so far by the Secretary of State does not convince me yet. I had answered a lot of questions about this. I am also very interested in the answer to Mrs Karabulut's amendment, which, in my view, brings some consistency. I would like to hear what would be against giving this group that instrument, too, with more opportunities to get to work. It does not seem to me to be the issue of repression, because this is not going to replace the 125,000 additional jobs we have agreed on. So what's the problem? I also have a question about the no-riskpolis and the administration. An employer will have to pass on to the UWV when an employee is ill, the UWV will have to tell the municipality that the employee is sick, the municipality will stop the wage cost subsidy and then the UWV will turn out the no-risk policy. That's at least five links. Now we have seen before that the more links in a system are, the more vulnerable it is. I can follow the logic, but how are we going to prevent all kinds of miscommunications and accidents from happening because one signal accidentally comes through too late and suddenly someone has to pay back money? How is this actually organized, even in order to prevent this from happening, certainly we should not want the employee to go from the locker to the wall because somewhere in that process a mistake has been made? How are we going to prevent that? What did the Secretary of State arrange for that? This law has a horizon. We don't see that very often. After 2020 it stops again, but certainly the no-riskpolis is of course also important after that, so I still have a lot of questions to ask why it stops now. I must say that even after reading the cabinet's answers to written questions from the Chamber, I am not yet convinced that this is necessary. I really need more explanation from the Secretary of State on this point. I would ask her to take particular note of my concern that stopping by 2020 will cast a shadow. An employer will decide now or in 2018 to refrain from hiring someone, because soon the no-riskpolis will disappear. How am I supposed to see it? How much does the Secretary of State estimate that risk? It would be a pity if employers, who, of course, already find this an exciting task, did not accept certain people. The employer may then say: I have a no-risk policy now, but in a few years' time that person may have a fixed contract and if that no-risk policy disappears, I am afraid to wear it anymore. That seems to me to be a vulnerability. I would like to comment on this. Mr Heerma asked questions about the target group register and the motion that was adopted on it. In the autumn we would look at how things stand. The meteorological autumn started on 1 September. I expect the Secretary of State to be able to say something on this subject today. Finally, I come to the job coach. A motion by the Labour Party, the CDA and D66 has been adopted requesting that the maximum of three years applied by the UWV for the deployment of the job coach be abolished. Of course you hope that after a number of years someone can continue to work with an employer without the support of the job coach. But we had put in that motion that there are people that this does not apply to. The support of a job coach is needed for them to remain employable. Now there's the Participation Act. What is the progress on the implementation of this motion? What is the effect of the UWV, which worked in the past with a maximation of three years? How often does the UWV use that instrument for more than three years? What is the experience of municipalities offering job coaching? I understand the maximum of three years isn't over. This law is still in force for more than six months. But has anything been done about the maximation? I'm worried about this. For Wajong beneficiaries, this was one of the major concerns that we were given in preparation for the treatment of the Participation Act. I hope the Secretary of State can reassure me. All in all, we have a positive attitude towards harmonization, but we still have many questions about the exact form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u40	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with yesterday's news. I cannot, of course, lag behind a number of colleagues from the Chamber. I'm talking about yesterday's good news. If you're from the Labour Party, you'd almost forget today, but yesterday there was also good news. That news has not yet been confirmed by the Cabinet. I think we should wait another week for Prince's Day. RTL opened yesterday with the announcement that the Secretary of State will allocate EUR 100 million extra in the coming years to ensure that there are enough places for people with the greatest distance from the labour market. With this money, as we discussed earlier, 30,000 sheltered workplaces will soon be created for people with the weakest position in the labour market. They will then receive a normal wage for their work, as we agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u41	I understand that the PvdA needs to publish good news, but can Mr Kerstens confirm that RTL's news is correct? He's making it very definitive now. It's possible he has prior information. Can he confirm this? Then maybe we won't have to ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u42	Perhaps Mrs Schouten missed her sprinting to the interrupting microphone, but I indicated that the news has not yet been confirmed by the cabinet and that we probably all have to wait a week for this until Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u43	That wasn't the question. I didn't ask the Cabinet to confirm it. I also know what the answer will be. However, Mr Kerstens presents it here as a fact. He says there's good news. I will review the short-term report, but he said that EUR 100 million will be added in the coming years. That's pretty convincing. RTL does have more information. This news channel doesn't stop yelling. That is hardly ever confirmed here, but this is fairly clearly mentioned. Can Mr Kerstens, not the cabinet, confirm that the news is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u44	No, I can't. That is why I have just specifically said that we will all have to wait a week for the communication from the cabinet. I indicated that, if it is true, the PvdA is in any case very happy about that and so is Mrs Schouten, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u45	You didn't ask the Secretary of State to confirm this. I didn't hear you ask that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u46	I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u47	I have the impression that I have fallen into a very bad comedy, in which Mr Kerstens's party member of a coalition party, I add, is celebrating because of a message on RTL News that the cabinet has leaked that extra money will come. Mr Kerstens can't confirm that, but hurray, hurray, hurray. This isn't a show, is it? That is what I am saying to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u48	That was a cry of hearts, recorded in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u49	My question to Mr Kerstens is why he starts his speech with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u50	Because it would be very strange if I didn't bring that up, if only because two colleagues have just mentioned me in particular in relation to that news. I have just indicated very carefully that this is a news item from RTL News. We still have to wait for confirmation of that news. If it turns out the news is right, I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u51	Suppose Mr Kerstens would be given EUR 20 million for sheltered work for five years. What would he do with that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u52	I would use that money in such a way that municipalities which apparently do not yet succeed in shaping sheltered work in the way that we have all meant it, namely at normal pay, can do so immediately. I am not referring to the way in which it happens now in Tilburg, Arnhem or Utrecht, for example, where people do not receive pay, if there is already sheltered work, but have to do it with a benefit. Mr Van Weyenberg himself said something about it in relation to the communication from Cedris, the organisation of the social employment services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u53	I cannot escape the impression that Mr Kerstens, with this cheerful parade, lacks his party hat just now, having some insider knowledge and therefore is jogging here, but I have no proof that he would not know. Assuming that Mr Kerstens will be able to applaud even harder next week, because he managed to manage it for just a moment, I think 20 million is a shame on a structural cut of 650 million. Does Mr. Christmas recognize that? At the heart of the problem is that the law does not guarantee that these 30,000 places must actually be realized by municipalities. They have freedom in that respect. Is Mr Kerstens going to have that money, if that happens, ear tags for this purpose? Does he then come up with a proposal to ensure in the law that these 30,000 places are actually realized? Or is this just another comedy act by Mr. Kerstens and is he here alone celebrating while all SW'ers outside are still in great uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u54	I'd like to invite Mrs. Karabulut to come over if I'm actually having a party. Then I mean in a slightly different way of celebrating. We're gonna have to wait and see what the cabinet comes up with. Perhaps the cabinet is doing something with some suggestions that have been made. Maybe not, but we can talk about that. I'd like to respond to what you said about the pubic patch. I don't think that's it. It could, for example, put an end to the antisocial situation in municipalities such as Tilburg, Arnhem and Utrecht mentioned by Mr Ulenbelt, Mrs Karabulut's colleague. That's where the SP is in the college, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u55	If it is true, it would be, but I am going to interrupt this discussion, because I find this increasingly complicated. If you are already going to respond to proposals...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u56	I'm getting questions about it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u57	... while you yourself say that you do not know if the news is true, I think that is actually an unusual way of debating it. Since last week, we have been talking about plans being leaked every day. I want to limit this. I will give Mrs Karabulut the opportunity to ask another question in a moment, but I would ask you, Mr Kerstens, if you yourself say that it is not yet known, to limit your response to the announcement that you will only respond to it when the news is true next week. I find that the most orderly way, because I find this really very uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u58	It seemed to me that it was only normal to try to answer questions that were asked in good faith and conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u59	I understand that, but it is my role as chairman to indicate the frameworks in which we are debating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u60	I understand. I really hope that the Presidium, and you first, will work on that leak, that there will be a report and you name it. But my question to Mr Kerstens is about a subject that he has also tweeted about. It's been in the news. We could play some kind of play here, but let's not do that. Those questions also live in society. Assuming that money will be available, I would like to answer my question: will Mr Kerstens solve the core of the problem, namely to ensure in the law that municipalities actually have to realize those sheltered workplaces, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u61	I really think that is a question to which I have to say: you really have to wait and see what the cabinet comes up with in that regard. The only thing we have been able to read is the amount. I do not know and do not know the manner in which the cabinet would implement it, if the amount were right. We cannot respond to this until we know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u62	I'm just passing through. I suggest we suspend for a moment. I'd like to have a word with the MPs before we proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u63	Ladies and gentlemen. It is a very special situation that we feel placed together and in which we also place ourselves. I also feel a bit like Solomon who has to pass judgment. One part says it has to do with this bill, while the other part says it has nothing to do with it. It's very difficult for me to estimate that. I propose this: I could not become more Solomon. I suggest that we proceed with this first term. I ask everyone not to allow this discussion to come back all the time. I'm looking at you, too, Mr. Kerstens. Then the Secretary of State can answer. It has been said that the Secretary of State can't help but get it all involved. I can't judge that right now. The Secretary of State has assured me that she can. Well, let's get to it then. If I feel like it's really not going well, we're not gonna finish tonight. But I'm going to decide that at a later date. It's really impossible for me right now to look at it. I would like to say to all of you that I am very displeased by the situation that has arisen. Mrs Karabulut has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u64	Then I ask whether the Secretary of State can start her contribution by answering the question whether these plans are indeed in the pipeline or something like that and the relationship with this bill. If that is the case, then that is what we are hearing as a Chamber at the moment only through the media, then the Secretary of State must also be so honest and we must suspend the further treatment. If that is not the case, then we can proceed with the treatment. What happened happened. There's been a leak. This is in the press. We have to deal with this, but we cannot stand here in the second part performing a play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u65	No, I think it's a fair question. The Secretary of State has heard the questions. She has told me before that she can immediately explain why it is separate from each other. That is at least Mrs Karabulut's one question. To the other question, the Secretary of State must answer to his conscience. I can't anticipate that. I give the floor to Mr Kerstens for the continuation of his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u66	Mr. Chairman. Today's agenda is the so-called harmonisation of a number of instruments available to employers in business and government to give people who, like you and I, want to move forward with and through their work, but who need just a little more help and sometimes a lot more help, opportunities to participate fully as colleagues among them. That's a big good, because work is more than the paycheck that pops on the doormat once a month and the corresponding salary. We all know that; Mrs Nijkerken said it in her contribution. Work means getting social contacts, structure in your life, developing yourself, participating and really matter. The Labour Party therefore welcomes the agreement made by the government in the social agreement with trade unions and employers and subsequently enshrined in the law to create at least 125 000 places for people with disabilities in business and government in the coming years. The inclusive society that we want, for example, in which the workforce of companies reflects our society and people with disabilities are at the heart of their work, is thus taking a step closer. This is good for the people in question, for the businesses and for our society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u67	That is a beautiful ideal, but now the practice. Can Mr Kerstens tell us how many people with disabilities who were previously unemployed due to the new laws and regulations have been sustainably helped to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u68	Mr Van Weyenberg has just indicated that we agreed at the procedural meeting to go into more detail in a separate general discussion on the letter from the Secretary of State concerning the creation of jobs in the framework of the employment agreement. Mrs Karabulut must also have received the letter of reply sent to us by the Secretary of State at the beginning of this week or at the end of last week, in which she answered her questions, that of me and that of other colleagues. It says that it is now about a number of thousands of people. In any case, there are a number of thousands of people who, if I am not mistaken, have got off the SW waiting list and gone to work, who are now receiving a salary instead of a benefit. I also think it's a lot of people who went to work for more hours. However, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg and to the Secretary of State that we are far from there. We are far from getting close to the 125,000 agreed in the social agreement and, of course, we need to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u69	I have a follow-up question, because Mr Kerstens does not know it all very well either. That question concerns another point, namely the sheltered workplaces. At the moment, as he knows, it is possible in the law that municipalities make choices in it: organising themselves, organising differently, not organising. Does the situation remain legal as it is if it is up to Mr Kerstens or does he draw conclusions from his opinion that sheltered workplaces should be the rule?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u70	In any case, I agree with Mrs Karabulut.................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have been in oral Question Time to express my concerns about this, I have asked written questions and I have tabled two motions for resolutions. In my view, on the occasion of the last motion, the Secretary of State asked the inspection to review the regulations of municipalities. I think we're gonna hear from her when she comes out with the data. Then I would like to continue the discussion with Mrs Karabulut, the Secretary of State and all my colleagues on how we are going to ensure that these 30,000 jobs are sheltered, on top of the 125,000 jobs agreement. I would like to help employers, as I have said before, to live up to their own commitments. In extreme cases, through a legal obligation and a fine if they do not comply with it, but above all by simply allowing them to help people with disabilities voluntarily to get a job by looking at what they need for it and what they can miss as a toothache. Three counters, four meters of paper and five employers' consultants with a card box under their arm can spare employers as toothache. Brightness about which they can claim when, help clarity and simplicity and thus also align things like the no-riskpolis and the mobility bonus, so employers do not have to puzzle on the question of who, what, where, when, how long and how much, and who not or a little or sometimes. I have called for this, like other colleagues here and the partners in the so-called Chamber of Commerce. I am pleased that this is happening now and also in a way that has been achieved in consultation with all the parties involved, with municipalities, with trade unions, with employers and with the UWV. That means there's support for this bill. I would also point out that it is now being regulated that, in the event of the closure of a no-risk policy, employers are not faced with higher charges if an employee falls out. That too is good news. I do have a few more questions for the Secretary of State. The result of opening up a mobility bonus to everyone in the target group of the job deal is that there is no difference between one employee and another, that more people can be helped and that the chance for employers to get a perfect match between a job and a person is growing now that the bonus for more people is going to apply. The consequence is that the bonus is lower than for the limited group for which it used to be. I think it is important to keep a close eye on how this is going to work out in practice. I ask the Secretary of State to do so and to keep the Chamber informed. Should extra money be available, increasing the mobility bonus may be a good destination. In the memo accompanying the legislative proposal it can be read that the funds now associated with the mobility bonus, after the five-year period mentioned in the law has passed, can be used in the tax and contribution context. I find that vague, too vague: 'can' and 'other instruments'. I would prefer to see that described a little tighter, so that it is clear that remaining resources remain available to achieve the job agreement. After all, the implementation will continue after those five years, i.e. after 2020. The need to support workers and employers in fulfilling the commitments made in the social agreement is therefore still ongoing. I shall, moreover, table a motion on this matter in the second term. Previously, we also talked about harmonising the instrument job coach. Apparently there are good reasons not to settle this in this proposal. Can the Secretary of State tell us what's going on with that right now? In the meantime, how many municipalities have decided to join the agreements made a while ago between the UWV and the G-4, the four large municipalities, in order to achieve greater harmonisation of the instrument of job coaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u71	I'll come back to that no-risk policy horizon. I have tabled an amendment on this point, as Mr Kerstens has read. D66 and the CDA are sympathetic to this. Do I understand that Mr Kerstens is also struggling with the fact that it is already clear that this arrangement, which, according to the Secretary of State, has been successful, will come to an end after five years? Does he agree that this horizon clause should at least be deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u72	Not automatically. I have read in the documents that the parties in De Werkkamer who insisted on this agreement have also insisted on the inclusion of a horizon. However, I have just said that I have also read in those documents that the funds for a mobility bonus may well lapse after those five years. They may then be put into other measures relating to the labour market. I just quoted that. I would argue that, if there is any money left in the future, this should be kept within the Participation Act, so that that money is spent on the people for whom the Participation Act is intended. I therefore believe that this money should be spent on those who, like you and I, want to move forward in life, but who need more help in doing so. That is what I am asking the Secretary of State, and perhaps that is a little different from what Mrs Karabulut's amendment says about that horizon clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u73	Mr Kerstens is confusing two things. He was just talking about the mobility bonus. However, I am talking about the no-risk policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u74	Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u75	Well, you talked about the mobility bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u76	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u77	But I'm talking about the no-riskpolis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u78	Yes. I am not confused, but I am saying that your amendment is about something other than the matter on which I just asked the Secretary of State a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u79	Yes. So can you answer my question now? Isn't it logical if, while waiting for the results of the evaluation, we say to each other: that is a system that basically goes through, unless the evaluation shows that the scheme is not working? However, we do not expect this to be reflected in that evaluation. That's a different setup than it is now in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u80	I understand. The confusion wasn't on my side. Maybe she was on Mrs Karabulut's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u81	If so, perhaps Mr Kerstens should answer more clearly. Does he support the amendment, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u82	I have said that I understand from the documents that the desire to harmonise certain resources comes from employers, trade unions and the UWV, but that they have also actually proposed to the Secretary of State to shape this by means of a horizontal clause. I am not quite convinced yet by Mrs Karabulut's amendment which states that it would not be good. I'd like to hear what she thinks of this in the Secretary of State's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u83	My question is somewhat along the lines of Mrs Karabulut's question. Mr Kerstens now says: there is a horizon in it because after a number of years we may be able to use other resources, for example in the fiscal sphere. He's shaking no now. Then it's not entirely clear to me either. However, we once tabled together a motion on the tax "rewarding" of companies that really do the job of employing people with disabilities. So it's about companies that really want these people to count. I never heard from the Secretary of State about that motion again. Does Mr Kerstens still think that should be done? This year's Tax Plan doesn't tell us what it is. Does Mr Kerstens think that we should start working on this with the Tax Plan in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u85	Then I am very curious about the contents of the Tax Plan. If, in my group's view, there is no such thing, I am already assured of the support of Mr Kerstens and his group. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u86	Mr Kerstens continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u87	At the end of last week, the Secretary of State replied in writing to questions raised by the Labour Party at the first intermediate stage. These were questions about the implementation of at least 125,000 jobs I have just mentioned. We are going to discuss this in greater detail in a separate general discussion. I would just like to say that, like Mr Van Weyenberg, I think it is positive that more people from the target group have started working in business, despite the crisis in 2013 and 2014. That's consistent with the feeling I had when I went into the country at that time. I noticed that employers became increasingly aware that something was expected of them and that eventually politics would even be prepared to enforce it through a legal obligation. This has led to a debate. That's what got things moving. The fact that some of these places have been filled out through secondment is not a problem for my group. In fact, we insisted on that. It's a way employers can cross the line. It is a way that, while maintaining certainty, offers opportunities to the people in question. Detaching can be a part of the earning model new style of social work provision. It is like no other experienced and skilled in the posting of people with disabilities and in what comes to mind. But we are not here yet, if only because not all jobs filled by posting automatically count. It is good that the Secretary of State has given more insight into the people behind the figures. It is good that people have come to work from the waiting list, are no longer dependent on a benefit, but receive a salary. It is good to see that many people have managed to get more hours to work and thus got more in their pockets. What also stands out in the figures is that the government itself is lagging behind. Mr Van Weyenberg pointed that out. I don't think that's possible. The government has an exemplary role to play in this. If you ask employers to do something, as a government, make sure that you show how to do it in your role as an employer. Practice what you preach, it's called in good English. Just as with the Law approach fakes constructions and the Work and Security Act, which also require something extra from employers, the Labour Party is also on top of this. I therefore have a number of questions to the Secretary of State about the government's being left behind. What explanation does it have for the fact that the government itself is lagging behind in offering jobs as part of the job deal? What actions have been launched during the measured period in order to achieve this job agreement? Have some more been added later? Which ones are they? Is the Secretary of State prepared to make additional efforts to ensure that the government also meets its objectives and, if so, what are they? As has already been said, and then I shall close, I welcome the push on the part of social employment services, the conditional inclusion of postings from social employment services, and the introduction in the country of the motion that I have tabled on behalf of many colleagues, which has finally brought EUR 60 million on the table for plans to enable social employment services to play their important role under the new law. Contacts with the trade union movement show me that this goes well in many places. But every now and then there are people who think that the money from this motion, which is intended to prepare the social employment services to play a role in the new law, can also be financed, for example, the dismantling of a social workplace. Let me be clear: that is clearly not the intention. I assume that the Secretary of State takes good note of this in the assessment of the plans to be assessed by its ministry shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u88	If Mr Kerstens was so keen on social services, on the sector, he should never, ever have agreed to the plans for a death home. But my question is this. At present, highly educated people with disabilities who can earn the legal minimum wage with support are not eligible for these instruments. I have a proposal to make that possible, because this is also discrimination and these groups play out against each other. Can my group count on the support of Mr Kerstens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u89	First, I would like to say that I do not agree with Mrs Karabulut's statement, made between the nose and the lips, that there is a death home construction at the SW. I see that many SW companies have a role to play in implementing the new law. I have just mentioned a number of elements which hopefully show that I have contributed with other parties so that they can fulfil their role. As far as the target group to which these instruments apply is concerned, we do not yet see any reason to accept Mrs Karabulut's amendment on this point. It clearly separates the target group from the target group when it is necessary to activate the legal quota. I believe that what is now being proposed by the Secretary of State fits within the dividing line. The Secretary of State has already argued, and I agree with her, that the original target group definition of people who cannot earn the WML on their own is the weakest group, which needs additional help when it comes to sheltered work and its share in those 125,000 jobs. At the moment when employers fail to meet an agreement they have made, the quota is activated and we go to a larger target group, including highly educated people, without crowding out the people who are really at the bottom and cannot earn the WML on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u90	That is a technocratic answer. Mr Kerstens then outlined a false contradiction between groups of people who all have a disability at different levels. They all have trouble getting a job. About a million people like to work. Next, Mr Kerstens denies that his group has indeed signed a death house construction, because no one is coming in. The question is, how long will the SW companies last? I just want a clear answer to the question of how Mr Kerstens is explaining to those hopeful people who also need those tools to get to work that they do not belong to that target group. Then I do not want a technocratic reply from Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u91	Your question is clear. The answer will now be given to Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u92	I did not, in my opinion, give a technocratic answer, but I did explain how we reached the two target groups. There is a time when the first target group will be enlarged. It makes sense to see if instruments are available for the whole new target group. Mrs Karabulut spoke about the highly educated, but they do not need to be higher educated at all, they can also be lower educated people who can earn the WML independently. They can also claim other instruments. I have been approached by a lot of people from that group who told me that they are extremely happy that we in the Chamber are letting them count when the quota has to be activated and each employer will individually check whether the obligations are met or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u93	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan on joining this beautiful, but ever-increasing committee, as she has probably noticed today. I look forward to the many debates we may have with each other. This law seems to be a kind of final piece of all the steps we have taken in relation to the Participation Act and the ambitions to help people with disabilities to get to work. We have all expressed our intentions and our visions. But the question now before us, including in this bill, is how we actually stand in practice. To this end, I would like to share a number of stories with the Chamber. I have visited quite a few employers in recent months and asked them how they deal with what we ask them to do in the Participation Act, namely to give people who are remote from the labour market the opportunity to work. I have to say that I have met a lot of employers who are serious about this and want to do something about it. But all those times I've talked to them about it, and I've spoken a lot of them, I've heard them say: we're getting people so hard and it's such a huge bureaucracy. One of the employers I met told both UWV and the municipality at some point that he wanted to make 14 jobs available to people with disabilities on his company. After more than a year, three people were nominated, two of whom could stay. That employer has been left completely disillusioned. He has exempted someone within his own company to ensure that those jobs were created and it seemed as if he was just being counterproductive. That's not the only story I hear. I hear it all the time. Then we can make laws here until we do one thing, but if that practice doesn't change, there will be more and more resistance in practice around the mediation of people who also have talents and who we really like to give a chance to. The tricky thing is that we want to take care of everything here, that we want to pull something out of the closet right now and say: that is why things have to be different. In all honesty, I do not know exactly how to change this practice. I'm just wondering why this is how it works. But I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she has heard those sounds. I really want to be honest with you, because it can't be that we just hear it and not the Secretary of State. How, for example, does she deal with UWV and municipalities in De Werkkamer, with all the parties involved in this dossier? How's it going in practice? What's their picture of that? I really want the Secretary of State to reflect on that, also in relation to this bill. We support the thrust of this bill. That's pretty easy to say. I have two specific questions on this subject, which have already been put to me by other spokesmen. I'll start with the mobility bonus. I, too, have read that the "height of the bonus doesn't matter for the outlets in this law." Mr Van Weyenberg made that quite clear in his term. I sincerely wonder why we spent so much money on this mobility bonus all these years. But let me turn it around, because I don't think it is. Does the Secretary of State have a clear view on the impact of a substantial reduction in that mobility bonus on the opportunities for exit? They're getting over it a little bit now. I think that when we look back we will say: oh no, that bonus is completely undressed and a lot of people have not gotten any more opportunities. Then we're too late. I actually want to know how the Secretary of State assessed that in advance. If she says the height doesn't matter, we wouldn't have had to pay for it for years. Then I come to the no-risk policy horizon. I wonder if it doesn't cast out all its shadow. If you as an employer seriously consider hiring someone with a disability, you want to look ahead longer than a number of years. If this is already envisaged, is there not a risk that these people will not be recruited? 'Cause imagine it going to fall away. The employers already have some kind of cold feet. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at that. Then I'll get to the job deals. At the procedural meeting, it was discussed that this would be the subject of a later discussion. However, it is inextricably linked to this bill. For my part, I must say something about this. Those numbers vary. I have been given the overview showing that the employers have created places, but that the government itself is in the least, -148. Then you can say that this has to do with the number of hours calculated and that it depends on whether it's full or half jobs or whatever. But isn't the Secretary of State ashamed that the government, which should set a good example itself, is now apparently lagging behind the market? Does she have an explanation for those numbers? And more importantly, how is it going to make sure that there is a huge catch-up, even if it is, or rather: precisely, with the government? When interrupting Mr Kerstens, I asked a question about our motion on tax incentives for social entrepreneurship. We are no longer allowed to talk about government plans, but I am very curious to see what will be in the Tax Plan next week. That motion called on the Secretary of State to do its utmost to examine, in consultation with the Secretary of State for Finance, the possibilities for using not only the stick, but also the root. If you do it right, you'll be rewarded, and then we'll see it as government, too. What efforts has the Secretary of State made in this area? Is she hopeful that there will be proposals for this? I will not ask about the whole of the Tax Plan, but perhaps she can tell us what she herself has done so that we can get a little insight into it. Then I come to sheltered work. Cedris has indicated that more is needed to ensure that these sheltered workspaces are built. We are curious to see what the Secretary of State is about these plans. I can see that this number of places for sheltered work does not come automatically. We have discussed this before. There is a dilemma between the policy freedom of the municipalities to realize this matter and the hard agreement made in the social agreement. According to Cedris, introducing a no-risk policy for sheltered workplaces will give a significant boost to the creation of those workplaces. Does the Secretary of State share that view? Does she think it's likely to introduce that? Maybe I'm getting into the chairman's water right now, but this was my line. It's a little complicated. Perhaps the Secretary of State can reflect on the plans Cedris has made. It is clear that we support this proposal in its own right. We do have great concerns about the achievement of the objectives laid down in the law up to now, not only in the market or in the public sector, but in general. This law is intended to relieve employers, but it does not appear to have that effect. If we want this law to be a success, if we want to avoid a quota law, we have all called for it to be a law that hopefully will not enter into force............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If we need steps to change things, we need to start with them today and not wait until it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u94	Mr. Chairman. It's been a long night, so I'll be brief. Most of the questions have already been asked. There are questions from D66 that I can join, questions from the SP, questions from the CDA, actually from all over the room. Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan, congratulations on your maiden speech, with a beautiful personal note at the end, which I very much agree with. The Jobs Agreement Act and quota of labour restrictions and the Participation Act are not going to be reversed tonight. It can't be. I'd love to, because I hate that quota bill. We talked about that back then, so cut it out. The buttons have been turned and the people who matter are now in a situation where they need to be dealt with. Sometimes things need to be levelled up in the process or in the middle of the process that is going on. That's what we're gonna do. I must say that we can support the idea in the basics. I would like to look forward to the answer to the questions, such as those about the government itself which is lagging behind in meeting the quota. A lot has been said tonight about the bill. It has been unclear: do we continue, do we not proceed. We shouldn't talk about that anymore, because time is ticking and everyone wants to go home tonight. In fact, I have very few comments to make on this bill. Buttons have been turned. In the opinion of the PVV Group, the people involved also need a little more clarity. We support that. The SP Group has put another question on the amendment to item No. 9. I would like to answer that question. That is a very important issue for me too. For the rest, the Council of State does not comment and the authorities concerned indicate that it is enforceable. Then I shall be brief myself and await the answers to the many questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u95	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that she wishes to suspend for a moment because she wishes to hold consultations for the preparation of the reply. I don't know exactly how long that suspension's gonna take. So keep an eye on the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u96	I have consulted with the Secretary of State and it seems to us both wise to continue the debate, with the reply of the Secretary of State, after the General Reviews. She would like to make this answer as complete as possible in the first term. She would like to answer all the questions asked, in order to do justice to the contribution of the Chamber. It is therefore perhaps better to continue after the General Reviews. I'm going to make sure that it comes on the agenda the week after the General Reviews, so that we can complete the examination of the bill. Then it is well in time for the treatment in the First Chamber, I say to those who are concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u97	Of course, it would have been a farce if it had been different. It's a very sensible decision. I assume we will receive a letter of amendment from the Secretary of State before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-26.u98	I can't say anything else about that. You made that remark. We will see next week what is in the budget and what impact that has on the handling of this bill.
