ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.1.0	Good morning, everybody. The session begins. In the first place, and before starting the order of the day, I recall the voting delegations presented in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, in this case the deputies Oriol Junqueras and Raül Romeva, who have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, spokesman for the Republican Parliamentary Group, and the deputies Jordi Sánchez, Josep Rull and Jordi Turull, who have delegated their vote to Mrs Elsa Artadi, spokesman for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Cumulative motions for resolutions on the release of processed Members and the guarantee of political rights and on the compliment of the precautionary measures granted by the UN Human Rights Committee to guarantee the political rights of Mr Jordi Sánchez and Mr Picanyol]] [[250-00104/12 and 250-00105/12]] The first item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the release of Members of Parliament and the guarantee of political rights. The fact is that, in agreement with the Board of Spokesmen, this motion for a resolution will be discussed jointly with the motion for a resolution, which appears as follows from the agenda, and also presented for the same groups, on the compliment of the precautionary measures agreed for the UN Human Rights Committee to guarantee the political rights of Mr Jordi Sánchez and Mr Picanyol. As I said, these two motions for resolutions have been tabled for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Application - Crida Constituent. Therefore, in order to present this initiative, these two initials, we will start the debate with a turn of the parliamentary groups that are the authors of the proposals, with a intervention of two minutes for each parliamentary group and five minutes for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP-Crida Constituent, as, I repeat, it was agreed to the Board of Spokespersons. It will then be the turn of the rest of the parliamentary groups, which will have a single turn of intervention of two minutes to defend the papers presented, if you stand, and, if not, to position themselves in relation to the motion for a resolution. So, in the first place, and to present and defend these two motions for resolutions, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.2.0	Okay. Good morning, Speaker of Parliament, deputies, deputies. Today is my first intervention in the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia as the deputy of Junts for Catalonia, and from the emotion I remember as Councillors Rull and Turull say to me: "What a special feeling you will see on the day of your first intervention. Allow me, then, that my first feeling and thought is for them. Also denounce the existence of exiles and political prisoners as in Quim, Jordi Sánchez, the Oriol, Raül or Jordi Cuixart. And also for political pressures, pain and karma. We bring our solidarity to all families, who are also accompanying us to the hemisphere today, because we demand their immediate release. We also demand that political prisoners be brought to Catalonia, because there are two injustices: the first, that of their enterprise, and the second, that of the prisoners of Catalonia, with an unjustifiable and inhuman impact on the families. And to quote Jorge Semprún, from his book The long journey: « I am stopped because I am a free man, because I have seen myself in the need to exercise my freedom and I have assumed this reality. In a context of democratic normality, these motions for resolutions that we are submissive today should not be debated. During the election campaign we asked: "Will the results of 21 December be respected? I, deputies and deputies, already have the answer: no. The Spanish government, through the complicity of the judiciary, is trying to achieve that the votes are converted into mullat paper, even though it is due to the failure of the State. Thus, the Spanish justice – defined by Quim Monzó, Honorary Prize of the Catalan Letters, as the Spanish injustice –..., they have our deputies ready, they have our votes ready. And those who are ex-fellows are now profited from repression and political persecution. MPs and MPs, in 2018 we have political prisoners in Spanish prisons, political prisoners who are persecuting themselves for their ideology, because they are invented that the world saw that they are not producing; the world has seen that the most numerous and most democratic manifestations in Europe have occurred in Catalonia. On the other hand, the only violence he had was that of '1 October, which, moreover, I hope that the deputies and deputies will continue with attention this late the syndic's intervention in his report, because it is more than blunt. The Parliament of Catalonia is the head of popular sovereignty, the head of the vision of all Catalans, regardless of their thinking, their language, their culture, what follows, and that makes it incomprehensible, on the part of all those who defend civil rights, not to position themselves before these undertakings and the difficult regression of democracy in Spain and Catalonia. Since the Catalonian Parliament has proposed up to three candidates for the presidency of the Generalitat, but to each proposal made the answer has been more violation of political rights. This Parliament, with the results of the 21st of December, proposed the very honorable Carles Puigdemont as a presidential candidate. The response of the Spanish Government, which did not accept the results, was to refer its investiture to the Constitutional Court, which adopted surprising precautionary measures, unprecedented, to prevent the holding of the debate. And, still, from this Faristol, the existence of pressure and trickery on the part of the Spanish Government to the Constitutional Court was made public, falling into one of the basic pillars of the state of law: judicial independence and the right to a procedure with just guarantees. Moreover, this plenary on March 1st proclaimed that President Puigdemont continued to have the parliamentary majority sufficient to be ratified as President of Catalonia. This interference of Spanish justice forced President Puigdemont to temporarily renounce his investiture; however, he denounced this violation before the United Nations Human Rights Committee, in accordance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which is signed for the Spanish State. On the day of his arrest in Germany, it is by chance a public fact that he admitted to filing his claim on behalf of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. Neither the Spanish Government nor Spanish justice will be able to follow the orni before the requirement of the compliment of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, signed by Spain, because in its article 25, of binding character, guarantees the right of citizens, without distinction, to participate in the direction of public subjects directly as well as to vote and be chosen, in elections, for their representatives. Another candidate for the presidency of the Generality, Councillor Jordi Turull, was hired on the first investiture session, not allowing his presence in the second investiture; another violation of political rights of a Member of this House, of a Member who is willing and proposed to be invested as President of the Generality. Moreover, a proposal for a specific resolution requiring the compliment of the resolution of the precautionary measures of the United Nations Human Rights Committee, as it is understood that the political rights of MP Jordi Sánchez, chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, will be guaranteed. It was Judge Llarena who prevented his presence in the investiture to be a candidate for the presidency of the Generality, in violation of the political rights of Congressman Sánchez, in violation of Article 25 of the International Covenant. Please note that this adoption of precautionary measures by the United Nations Human Rights Committee denotes and manifests the gravity of the situation. It should be noted that Judge Llarena is obliged to complete these precautionary measures, and this Parliament is also obliged to do so as Jordi Sánchez is not a Member of Parliament. We are not naive, at these heights, and it is possible the failure on the part of the judge Llarena of these precautionary measures, fact that would affect even more the international reputation of Spain, which is already very bad fruit of the violence of '1 October. And they see all this scener and what's coming, we warn them: how do they want the United Nations not to react before what we're living? Do you, MPs and MPs, think that judicial institutions start and end in Spain? Today, they are fully in force and remember the words of Master Pau Casals' speech on October 24, 1971, from his award of the Pau Medal to the United Nations, and it was assured: "The pau has always been my great concern. Already in my childhood I learned to esteem her. In addition, Catalan soc; Catalonia held the first democratic parliament, long before England, and made my country where the first united nations were. These phrases contain the Catalan definitional traits: pact, dialog and pau. The return of democracy and the judiciary to which we are under attack has unjustly held political prisoners, political prisoners, exiles and exiles, but it has also secreted the vote of the Catalans and the majority and the sovereignty of this Parliament. In these moments of democratic emergence, from Juntes to Catalonia we want to say publicly that we will not give up the investiture of President and Deputy Carles Puigdemont and safeguard with all our strength, determination and hope each of the political rights of the candidates to preside the Generality of Catalonia that the club of 155 does not want. [[Greetings.]] We are President Puigdemont's list and we will do everything possible to protect his legitimacy as President. Because no one doubts it: patience, perseverance and perspective. And it is that the reality to which many refer presents us a country where demonstrations, places and streets feel the cry of « Puigdemont, our president, because they recognize him as the legitimate president of Catalonia. We want to be a country where each of the political rights of all those people who have been voted for by the citizens of Catalonia is defended, independently of their political position, because, without this energetic defense, it is impossible to succeed before this failed democracy. We do not want to be from a country where the success of the title of Duke of Franco is published in the official butllet; we want to be from a country where people kept ballot boxes without asking their company what to vote for. We recognize October 1 and will not give up, because we want a better country, because Together for Catalonia is transversality, centrality and diversity, but also the compromise with October 1 and President Puigdemont. Sometimes we listen that we have to look forward, and I say together for Catalonia does not only not forget the past and the present, but, because we look at the future, there is no choice but to compromise with the release of prisoners and political pressures, the determination for the defence of the political rights of all and each of the Members of this Parliament, because the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia does not have to go through Spanish toga, only to pass, as it has been, through the ballots and votes of Catalans. A country that does not struggle for the protection of civil and political rights is a country that has no future. And for this reason we ask you to vote in favour of the two motions for resolutions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.3.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. It's the turn, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs. Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Clac, clac, cloc, to infinity, a mountain, incessant drop to drop, but constant. Cloc, cloc, one at a van, one at a time; a drop of cold water, well cold, fell in the same place, kept a constant fall, day by day, perhaps at a time, but cremated your hair. It's just the beginning of a painful end. They call it the Malay Gout. And it's that we see it, and we suffer, sadly, from the violation of our rights and freedoms in the Spanish State, which, every time and in an uncontrolled way, apply it to us. And they're no longer drops of torture, but of a storm, and with thunders and flames, unfortunately. We're here one more time to report the courthouse that one day we live in another, a direct attack on our civil and political rights. Democracy is suspended in the Spanish State, with the abuse of power, the arbitrariness, its persecution and the attempt to end up with a civil, peaceful, popular and political movement; a grassroots movement of people, of more than two million people. They're liquidated their own state and the little reputation they had left. And they can make speeches, and they can make up the stories they want, but the cause is just, and the facts they explain, unreal. For this reason, United Nations accepts and handles complaints. And that, even if it is stored or imported, is internationally instrumental. And now they expect Alemanya to make them a grant. All this, in a process every time more internationalized, are pending the answer of four countries: Belgium, Switzerland, United Kingdom and Germany. Well, we already know the answer. But let's not lose sight of the fact that the violation of rights and freedom of expression is not just with the independenceists. Everything you bring to the Spanish government is in danger; everyone who doesn't defend their ideas is enemy. They have banned books, songs, tweets, headlines, protests on the street in Murcia... We have no freedom of speech; no one is sure in this State, a state that denies us, that is denying us our basic rights. We are in a situation of national emergence and we will always defend the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia against the interference of the Spanish judicial system, which makes it impossible to apply the results of 21 December with normality. The Spanish government is not respecting the results of the polls. Candidates Puigdemont, Sánchez and Turull could not be invested. And in these conditions it's all more difficult, if not impossible, when the arbiter's land is the purest arbitrariness. This one I'll show you now is the photo of the 21st of December. They tell us that without violence we could talk about everything. Here you have it. Because it's very quick and simple to say, "We have two deputies in exile, three in prison, they've been forced to resign again, but it's harder to see them caresses and name them for their name. They are President Carles Puigdemont, Vice President Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Cuixart, Jordi Sánchez, Quim Forn, Carme Forcadell, Josep Rull, Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva, Jordi Turull, Marta Rovira, Clara Ponsatí, Toni Comín, Meritxell Serret, Lluís Puig, Carles Mundó and Anna Gabriel. I'd like to take this opportunity to bring in a warm hug to all the family members who are with us today. March 23rd will be remembered many years, we will remember many years, because it marked one before and one after in the degradation of the state of law in Spain; you have been sold to five of our companies and companies that share with us when they took freedom and to another they have taken him to exile. Disperse ovation here to many of those who are painted, families and friends, without forgetting those who have preceded them or are in exile. You'll tell us we're victims and we use the pain of families, our own pain. But no, a non-round one; these appreciations are excuses for a bad payer and do not accept the anti-democratic reality of the 155 block. This is the raw reality; it is a manifestation of humanity, of empathizing with the pain of alienation, beyond ideological or political differences. Because they are and have been our companions. I remember that Raül always said a very simple phrase, which said: "For decent politics, and he and the rest of the company for me represent this. Because today it's from this, from making a decent policy, not a policy that offers dissidents or entrepreneurs. To offend and silence opinions they dissipate from a government of PP's Drets and their accomplices of 155 is democratic politics? Is that democracy? Democracy is not concealing or speaking of greetings or other frivolities, but complementing and fulfilling with the fundamental rights, and defending freedom of expression and political opinion, and even more so when your companies and companies are, elected as democratically as all of us here in this Parliament. The Parliament is his of popular sovereignty, it is who has to decide who is or is not the president of Catalonia, in the head court. Politics is done to Parliament and not through jutjats. But they do so because the polls always lose, always, and some of you have forgotten it or, worse, want to forget it or do it as if you don't exist. And, with the good sportswoman, I learned quickly that it's so important to know how to win how to lose. As often as Mrs. Arrimadas repeats herself very often that she was first, we live in a parliamentary democracy and rule that makes the majority. And yes, look at the Mirall, face-to-face, no fancy clothes, no paper poses, no one wants to make a deal with you. [[Greetings.]] We felt them a lot of times signifying to us that we were guilty of the social fracture. Certainly, you give content to the sentence of what you assume and I will tell you what you lack. You speak of the social fracture, you, that your party was born and grows just to cause this fracture. Yes, you do, but you blame others. It's not just hypocrisy, it's pure cynicism. But let's go back to what we really care about. Parliament is not where it all begins, but it should be where it all ends, where it is legislation to make people where they are and citizens feel identified and not offended. There wouldn't be an Obama president without Martin Luther King and other struggles, or no president or right to vote without feminism... that came out of the street and went against the unjust laws. Not a single century ago, in the sixties of the 20th century, the people moved for civil rights. Luckily, we got where we are. We suffer a systemic violation of our rights and we suffer an abuse and excessive abuse of legal and police resources against our freedoms, the minimum democratic standards, our physical and mental integrity; we suffer a total abuse of power, and we suffer a creation of non-existent relationships to promote a lie, a lot of fake news that they want to sell us as relationships, like so many that they make the 155 block serve with the Spanish government to captivate. The internationally recognized black activist and feminist Angela Davis said: "The Amos's tools are not used to unmount the Amos' house. Democracy is shaped and transformed with the laws that are just with the demands of the street, as was feminism or anti-racism, or now, at home, as in other countries, independence. The decision of the United Nations is another victory of democracy in the face of the authoritarian and repressive state in which the Spanish State has become, a new victory like October 1st, like that of December 21st, both with very complicated situations and when the State was not expected – a drop in cold water – accompanied by other headlines such as: "The High Court of Human Rights condemns Spain in twelve occasions in 2016 to violate some right, where we would add the acquaintances for torture and the recent cream of the king's photos, and in addition many others, with the admission to the UN, of the demand of Puigdemont, for the violation of their rights. And a short time ago we learned that Switzerland has no intention of extraditing Anna Gabriel, considering it a political process. Gout to gout, Espanya loses her credibility. We have always addressed the world with our best weapons: ballot boxes, pacifism, the will of dialogue until the last consequences. We've kept our hands up until when our opponents want to eliminate us to win. We have great projects and proposals, such as that made by the President of Parliament: a common front for civil liberties and rights, where many social movements have already shown their willingness to join. And with others more humble, like now we're planning to pull out because we want to do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.5.0	Mrs. Caula, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.6.0	... – I ended up – address us to the countries of exile, where Catalans have found justice and respect, countries like Belgium, Switzerland, Scotland. We would like to thank you as best we know, with a cultural action that is just beginning: books and libraries in exile, music concerts, movie premieres. It doesn't just define our pacifism, it also defines our critical experience. José Eduardo Agualusa, in his acceptance of Dublin's international award, said: "Reading develops in us the muscle of empathy and makes us better people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.7.0	Mrs. Caula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.8.0	Five seconds. The country will end a campaign that is just beginning. Freedom is a bookstore, as Joan Margarit says; it will be our flag. We will make it come to an end; the world must know that opening the doors of Catalans and Catalans to their freedom means opening the doors to democracy, pau, culture, solidarity and fighting shared between peoples. Drop by drop, the one we kick is torture; drop by drop, the one we want is that of temperate water, the water that gives life. Thank you very much. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. It's Mr. Carles Riera's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.10.0	Thank you, President. First of all, our solidarity with the victims of the police violence of these past days, these past days; police violence that we denounce, against the non-violent mobilizations that in our country are giving themselves to defend our rights and our freedoms. Today this Parliament takes a step that has not been necessary if the Spanish State has not secreted democracy in Catalonia by violating the civil and political rights of the independent deputies and denying the sovereignty of this chamber at the time of determining who is to be a candidate for the presidency of the Government. A passage that was not necessary if the Spanish State had not secreted the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia and that of its Parliament. Nor has it been necessary if the majority groups of sovereignism and the very presidency of Parliament failed to comply with these illegitimate prohibitions by adapting and withdrawing applications, suspending and suspending full and renouncing the inalienable right to vote in exile. So, today we know that Junts for Catalonia has made a decision that we share and celebrate: to call for the acceptance of President Puigdemont's delegated vote; congratulations on this decision. Every time democracy retreats, as we have repeatedly said, before repression and dictatorship, this moves harder, as the recent decisions of the Supreme Court show. Only defending rights and exercising them will we return democracy to Catalonia, only with sovereignty will we return to self-government. Today the pact with the State has only one name: surrender. And the rendering takes us to the dark and the ignominy. But today, fortunately, we are rectifying the course and defending, demanding and affirming the civil and political rights of everyone, also of the independent elites, for whom we are also demanding liberation. The United Nations Organization reinforces us by already taking over the cases of Jordi Sánchez and Carles Puigdemont. The internationalization of the Catalan case in relation to its advanced rights, and the shame of the State as well. The shame of a state that, as Mr. Rubalcaba has already warned us, is willing to assume the deterioration of its international democratic image if what it is about is to defend its regime. A state without separation of powers and that uses the courts to exercise its institutional rape, its state terrorism. Today we add to the international voices calling for a political and democratic solution to the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. Switzerland has joined in communicating to Spain the natural – listen to me well – policy of the crimes and accusations that the Spanish State wants to carry over Anna Gabriel and deny it, logically and as it may not be in another way, its extradition. Today we have a passage that can be important to make reality very soon that a large part of Catalonia claims, the elections of 21 December have determined and a growing international public opinion recognizes: the investiture of Carles Puigdemont as president of a Republican Generality, an act of elementary sovereignty to begin to rebuild Catalan democracy, the most effective step to obey the mandate of '1 October, the most effective step to govern the way to the construction of the republic, that so many people are in power and that today is the only way to develop truly social legislation and public policies, to the service of the working class of this country, and to overcome the true and only fracture of our society, that is the way to develop legislation and public policy, to the service of the social economy. Today this motion for a resolution can also reopen hope in the unity of the independence forces; so good the proper passes it confirm. Invest Carles Puigdemont as legitimate president, make republic, return to the path of national dignity, that this Parliament dismissed the 78 rule in Catalonia and set up the republic won at the polls and closed to the streets. This is the path of the unit; let's take it. From the CUP - Crida They are asking for a ple of investidura already to invest Carles Puigdemont as president. And we take on and assume all the institutional and political responsibilities that we need to make it happen, with all the consequences to make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. It is now the return, to position itself, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of the Inés Arrimadas. [[Pause.]] Yeah. Say'm, Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.12.0	I'd like to make an intervention from the escho.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.13.0	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.14.0	It'll be too short. It will be a very brief intervention because this is no longer about political, legitimate and healthy discrepancies in a democracy, which can be debated and voted in a parliament. This proposal put forward by the separation groups, the separatist groups, includes a huge barbarity, which I do not know if you are aware of what it means to vote for this barbarity. And, moreover, it includes two great falsehoods. Firstly, the first falsehood: Mr Puigdemont is not president of the Generalitat. And the first one who knows it and the first one who recognizes it... was Mr. Torrent, because he proposed two more candidates to be presidents of the Generalitat. It therefore acknowledges, publicly and explicitly, that Mr Puigdemont is not President of the Generalitat. In fact, now it seems that Mr.Sànchez, who said that he was going to leave the seat and stay in the university sector, now seems to resume and wants to be president of the Generalitat. Between Mr. Turull, Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Puigdemont, this looks like the chair game. But, come on, I remind you, and I say to you: stop lying, even to your voters, because Mr Puigdemont was President of the Generalitat, but he is no longer. Second falsehood: no, ladies and gentlemen of the separatist tripartite, the UN has not given Mr.Sànchez the reason – the UN has not given Mr.Sànchez the reason. Read – read – the procedural response, as an acknowledgement of receipt, issued by this institution. It states, in text, that‘in no case does it imply positioning the bottom of the question, in no case does it enter the bottom. [[Greetings.]] You think and defend publicly that Spain is a totalitarian country and that Spain is a dictatorial country. Well, that is your opinion, which is not shared by any of the international or European institutions. And we can review a lot of lists in which Spain is an absolutely full democracy. I'm just telling you, I'm asking you, I recommend you, rather, get out of the process bubble – get out of the process bubble. Because outside the process bubble there is no one who considers Spain to be a totalitarian and dictatorial country. No one. Get out of the process bubble. And finally, and most importantly, that is the barbarity that is going to be voted on right now right here. Do you intend to decide in Parliament who has to get out of jail? What will be next? Do you decide who has to go to jail? Is that going to be next? [[Greetings.]] Yeah... [[Greetings.]] In this Parliament we cannot tell justice, neither Spanish nor German, what it has to do. Are you telling German justice and Spanish justice, two democratic countries of the European Union, who has to go to jail, who has to get out of jail? But do you realize the barbarity that this entails, beyond political discrepancies, that you may not legitimately agree with a judicial decision? Do you realize that it is a barbarity for you to decide who gets out or gets into jail? Do you realize that we are a legislative power here to make laws not to tell judges what they have to do? We, as democrats, will respect what German justice and what Spanish justice decide, because we are democrats, and because we know very well that when we present ourselves to an electoral list, we are not who to decide who enters or who leaves the prison. I'm telling you... we've looked, and we already know what your idea of democracy is. We read with great attention his law of legal transitoryness. That pamphlet without any legal application, but that was a declaration of political intentions. In that law you said textually that the almighty... – that's not it, that's what I add, huh? – the president of the Generalitat was going to choose the president of the Supreme Court, and that he could not even be a career judge, but could simply be a lawyer of recognized prestige. Is that the republic you have wanted to build? Is that the republic by which you have broken Catalan society in two? That's barbarity. And, finally, I would like to recall the barbarity that President Torrent, the Speaker of the Parliament, said in this Parliament that no judge, no government or no official has the legitimacy to pursue the president of all Catalans. Do you realize the barbarity that is? Do you realize that what you are saying is that in the Balearic Parliament you can vote for the President not to go to jail? Are you aware that you are saying that in the Madrid Assembly, with the majority of the People's Party in the past, it has been possible to vote for a President of the Madrid Assembly not to enter prison? Do you realize that you are saying that in the Andalusian Parliament you can vote that Chaves and Griñán do not go to jail? Do you realize the barbarity you are saying, Mr President of Parliament? Do you realize that? [[Greetings.]] Discrepancy is legitimate. The power to criticize a judicial decision with which you do not agree is legitimate and reasonable, you can do so, but you cannot vote in this Parliament who has to go in or out of jail, nor can you say that politicians have immunity. Please reflect on what this Parliament is about to do. It is far more serious than a legitimate and healthy political discrepancy in democracy. We're going to respect court decisions. And we point out that what was behind this process is the desire for impunity and almighty power for politicians, which is what some persecuted for corruption crimes and which is now being extended to another type of crime. It is a good thing that we live in a 21st century European Union country, where parliaments do not say who goes in or out of jail, where parliaments do not say to German or Spanish justice what they have to do. Good luck. It is fortunate that we live in a 21st century European Union country and not in that republic with which you are dreaming and which will not arrive. Because, of course, it would be an independent republic, probably in its dreams, but what it would not be is never democratic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas... [[The applause continues.]] Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. It is the turn, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. It's Mr. Pedret's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.16.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, also the people who follow us from the public or through the media that makes available the Parliament, we try to start from that where we can agree. And it has been mentioned, in previous interventions, some questions that we may agree with. Firstly, the need for a greater degree of empathy with the positions of the opponents, with those who disagree with our own positions, and a greater capacity for empathy with those who suffer the consequences of this political process, which has clearly caused a deep division of Catalan society. We have to do, I think, all of us, folds and folds, the effort to make an exercise of empathy with the people they suffer. On this I hope to have occasion to return to it at the end of the intervention. Other questions which we agree with, which have been said or which are raised in the motion for a resolution or the proposals for a resolution which have been defended by the three groups submitting them: we fully agree with all the contents of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and with the need to respect everything that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights contemplates. And, in concrete terms, it is in accordance with Article 25, and specifically it is in accordance with Article 25 and we are very much in agreement. It's an apartment that talks about the right to have access under general conditions of equality to public officials in your country. We're in full agreement. And there is also the Spanish Constitution, which in its article 23.2 says, so too: the citizens – I add to make it understandable – "have the right to access in conditions of equality to the public functions and functions with the requirements that they sign up to the laws. And it is something that can be resolved, in the first place, through internal procedures, if the concrete affect that these people who are speaking of in the motion for a resolution and who are postulated to invest as presidents of the Government of Catalonia, according to the limitations that establish our laws, is according to what the Constitution provides as a matter of law and to what it provides for the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, signed on 76 and ratified on 77 for Spain. On the other hand, I have to say that we disagree with the reading that you make of this repudiation notice that the United Nations Human Rights Committee has made respects, let us say, the individual complaint that has been filed and that has given rise to this proposal..., these motions for resolutions and the debate that we have today. It has been commented, and we agree, that this is not just an admission to transit, it is a warning of rebuttal in which neither are taking precautionary measures. The Human Rights Committee is not a court. In any case, it forms part of these international mechanisms that issue reports or opinions that are known, say, as soft law in the international law, and therefore does not dictate precautionary measures. It has provided, among its standards, the possibility of making a series of recommendations, which are produced with sufficient general character whenever there is the possibility that there are fundamental rights at risk, which does, of course, before individual complaints before the Human Rights Committee this is quite frequent. But it's the same resolution you've already said. He says he opens a six-month term so that the shares put on the table all those arguments respect the admissibility of the complaint, of one band, and then respect the foundation of the assumption, of the other. Therefore, taking into account, moreover, that one of the premises of eligibility is that internal lives are exhausted, so we will see what is ultimately the answer to the admission of this complaint. But, in any case, we agree, as I said, on the need to respect the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the same Constitution, the Statute and the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia. With regard to all this, we agree. Now, a more delicate question, which is the question to which is also an ugly reference in all previous interventions, which is the question that Parliament calls for the release of persons who are in pre-trial detention. Look, we don't think that an institution that forms part of the legislative power, like the Parliament of Catalonia, can go to the judiciary to tell them what to do, huh? They can do so, from their different political positions, individuals, groups, political parties, associations; civil society, all of them, can feel respect for judicial resolutions, criticise them – criticise them – hard. And, in fact, our political party has made respect for some criminal types for which it accuses people who are in pre-trial detention and has considered that, let's say, the typical is certainly not at all accredited to the described conduct, and it has also made respect for the same precautionary measure of pre-trial detention. But criticism does not exempt itself from respect for judicial resolutions, and institutions like the Parliament of Catalonia must be especially curious about this, for reasons that have been exposed and also for reasons of the role that they want to play or that they should want to play the Parliament of Catalonia in resolving the political conflict in which we are situated. But we..., we make it clear to the people who are in these situations, we want them free – we want them free. We have been years before the understatement of many of you, let's say, consider maximum leaders of the independence movement. We have been trying to warn of the social and political consequences of falling into a mess of legitimacy. You've often used the middle of jumping the wall, huh? They presented the law, the Constitution, the State, as an unbreakable wall that would jump. And we gave them, and we'd told them from this very moment on, that to jump the wall the only one that would do is to place a wall between Catalans and Catalans, which actually happened. We are today much more divided than before giving certain steps that were given in this Parliament on 6 and 7 September, 10 October or 27 October; much more divided than then. And, frankly, it won't be because we didn't do everything that was in our hands, we didn't say everything that was in our hands to try to get us there... to try to keep us from getting into a situation like this. They may remember the long and tense day of October 26th, when we offered to try to hold elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, convened for President Puigdemont, and avoid all this, all the situation we now find ourselves in. It has not been possible; it has not been possible despite all efforts. Now we have to decide whether we continue to deepen the conflict, whether we continue with a policy of permanent toilet blocks, or if we try to look for the spaces, the dialogs needed to rebuild some basic consensus in our society, which allows us to get out of the current situation. Unfortunately, from the interventions that preceded me, I can't get out especially optimistic respects a dynamic shift in this. But I think we'd do well to take advantage of today's plethora and the ones who can come to try to start this path that I think some were trying to start in the plethora too that we've had past dissipation. Look, I told them I wanted to return to the issue of empathy at the end of my intervention. I've told them..., and I offer them my empathy and that of my group with their patience; I think I can understand it, even though I wouldn't like to say that I can fully understand it, because I think that only those who are going through situations of these can really know what it is that is lived. But they also demand that they make an effort to empathize with our sympathizers, militants, with our elites, with those of the other political groups that are not independent, who have long, and with special intensity in the past, are seeing as their party members are vandalized, attacked with stone, they are seeing as they are individually sitting in town halls, and they are also seeing personal data, such as that of their home, through the streets, in case someone wants to leave them behind. I believe that we would do well in the Parliament of Catalonia to denounce all – all – insults, threats – also the addresses, obviously, against you and against your leaders – all insults, threats and attacks, vandal attacks against your policies, and that we would do well to try, each in our responsibility and addressing the space that we feel represented by ourselves, to make a cry to the serene, calm, to try to intensify the conflict and to try to find political solutions to a conflict that is eminently political and that will not be resolved through the judicial process, only through dialogue and politics. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Now it's the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can. Mr. Domènech...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.18.0	Thank you very much, President. In one week alone, we carry three unexpected plenarys, certainly in absolutely extraordinary circumstances which probably led to the convocation of these three plenarys in just over a week, but certainly we convoke the plenarys which we convoke, with circumstances which every time are harder and more extraordinary, there are three things which, beyond the plenarys, follow exactly the same. Yesterday he made five months of the application of 155, five months of the intervention of our institutions and of our self-government. Three months ago, more than three months ago, the 21st of December elections were held, and while we do not go out of 155 and while we do not form government, every time we have more repression, there are more prisoners, there is a tougher situation, and we do not go out of this cycle that seems to be without any. We are once again in this third plenary, commenting on nine motions for resolutions, which we sincerely hope that the package of motions for resolutions, not just those we are talking about now, will not be winded up, in our plenary and nine motions for resolutions. Two motions for a resolution, in this case, which state precisely, again, the injustice of what we are living and the need to defend the political rights of Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Turull and Carles Puigdemont, but seem to suggest – and I think it is also clear – not only the struggle for these rights, but the will, again, to return to the exit box; the will, again, to seek the investiture of Carles Puigdemont. I can be fair, but let's go back. And probably, when we go back, it can be very apotheotic, it can be very dignified, it can have a great epic content, but probably, when we go back, it's because we don't know how to go forward, we don't know how to pull forward, trapped in a cycle without what? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because here what I would like to answer, in these motions for resolutions, is what they feel the last, what they feel the last. Are you trying to invest in Puigdemont again? All right, Puigdemont. And then what? More processed? In this case, the Bureau? More prisoners? More plentiful? More resolutions? After what? What's the meaning of what he's proposing? Because, yes, it's true, the moment is difficult, it's true, and demand answered, absolutely true. Answers, no more questions; answers. In this sense, in the heart of the struggle for rights and freedoms, we will find ourselves. In us trying to go against one wall one time and the other, no. Just four days ago, I was claiming in this same chamber a democratic bloc, with transversal alliances, and said: « a bloc that wanders from Workers' Commissions to Cultural Ómnium. Yesterday, joyfully, the Space for Democracy and Co-existence was born, which included a cross-sectionality that went from the great unions to Ómnium, passing through the Union of Pages, Confavc, Lafede, the Association of Actors and Professional Directors of Catalonia and many more that are still missing to come; here there is no one left, we all need. It is immense news that, coming from civil society, we built this democratic and cross-cutting bloc that we asked for just a short time ago in this chamber; that is, moreover, calling upon the experience of the Assembly of Catalonia, at the four points of the Assembly of Catalonia: freedom to make access of the people to economic power, amnesty, recovery of institutions and the self-government of Catalonia in the way of the exercise of the right to self-determination, and the fourth, mass time forgotten, coordination of struggles for the freedom of all peninsular peoples. We need this spirit that's already produced in society to be translated into this chamber, and that you make government, rule at once. Government for what? Because, before the uncertainty, this government makes us stronger and not weaker; before the sinking, I allow us to start walking at once; before the humiliation, I allow us to talk about you with the State. This government would have to form the simplest majority out of the polls on the 21st of December, we haven't stopped to say it. But after three_months of blocking and trading, it doesn't seem like you're ready to form a government for the moment. They seem to be going backwards, not moving forward. And, in fact, it seems that within this majority there may be sectors that have the tempt that, before the lack of answers, before the raising of only questions, we return to elections. And we will have failed and failed at the conjunction of the people of Catalonia. We need to start working already on a proposal to regain self-government and withdraw 155. That's the basic consensus of this chamber. In this sense, in this Ple, Mr Miquel Iceta, in the previous Ple, made a statement that leads to reflection; he said: "We are very far from the consensus necessary to form a transversal government, he said: "It would be the best for all, but we are very far from the consensus necessary. But in change, we're very close to falling into the abyss. Probably with all the years we'll ask ourselves what we did at that time that we were so close to falling into the abyss. This is the way we're going to have to go so we don't fall into the abyss. Because at these times, which are hard times, they are moments of uncertainty, at these times what there is and we see that there is more fear of being qualified as traitors than of making proposals to advance the country; there is more focus on problems than solutions. And in this sense we have to do something. Before that, what do we do? Will we stay still, each and every one of us in their place? Will we stand still while we see that everything is smiling? In this sense, I repeat: you, most of you, have the responsibility and the right to govern; do so. But, if they don't, we're all taking a step back to make a step back and forth before it's a step back into the country. A step back from the matches to take a step forward as a country. A step back from power and the party to take a step forward as a country. We are clearly in a moment of reaction; but there are also hope and change, also in everything we have experienced there are hope and change. There have been historical mobilizations to claim various sobrieties. We saw on March 8 a historic mobilization of women in this country, which will mark a step forward and a step later. We have seen how our opinions and our avies have mobilized for our future, for the future of everyone. We take good and better from all of us, from our hopes, and we govern. A broad, cross-cutting government with independent personalities, because we have too many motxillas, maybe; so, we take a step back because the country takes a step forward. With independent personalities of reference for the conjunction of the Catalan society, which represent the democratic sensitivities of the conjunction of the country. If it's said that this is no longer of independence, but of democracy, let's get the government out of democracy at once. And in this sense there was a government that had four great goals – four great goals. The recovery of Catalan institutions and the end of 155, the end of the judicial process and the freedom of the press and prisoners. A sham plan before inequality and injustice grow every day: application of guaranteed income, urgent measures in the justice of gender, housing, education and sanitation. Develop new ways of political solution from broad cross-cutting, country agreements, out of any unilaterality against a part of the population, to advance towards the recognition of a new political status of Catalonia, beyond an autonomous_mark which, it is said or is not said, everyone knows that it is surpassed in Catalonia. Therefore, a government that has, at the same time, a limited mandate of time, and the compromise of those and those that encapsulate it, of those personalities that can represent the set of sensitivities of Catalanism and democrats of the country, if it does not run for nine elections. A government, in short, of our hopes, of our hopes, of our convictions and of all our dignitys which, taking advantage of the good and better of Catalanism and the progress of this country, allow us to refer to, refer to us at a time, and look forward with hope, to look forward with hope at a time. We'll get over the past and the people's government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party, the turn of Mr Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.20.0	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to say is that the celebration of this plenary session is a mistake. And it is a serious mistake because this plenary today is not going to bring anything positive, it is not going to bring any solution, and all it is going to achieve is to conquer the problem even more, if any. The motions and the plenary in general, it is clear that they have two clear reasons, they have two clear wills: the first, to remain installed in this challenge to the State, this challenge to the rule of law, and to satisfy and endorse the radicals who are sowing conflict and chaos at different points in Catalonia. Today, with the celebration of this plenary session, the Members of Parliament and the Independentists are acting, you, as the pyromaniac firefighter: they light the fire of the social conflict and then pretend or will pretend to shut it down with words. And I want to tell you very clearly that the gasoline from that fire that is currently affecting, since last weekend, the streets and roads of Catalonia is the management that you are doing of the political moments that we are living in. I have listened very carefully to the intervention of the representatives of the three independence parties, and my final conclusion is a request: ask them to please stop lying at all times, please tell the truth. You Catalans need to know that you are panicking about telling your followers the truth. They know that they defend an impossible and unacceptable cause in a minimally serious democracy. It is neither presentable nor welcome to hear, as we have heard today, that democracy is not respected in Spain, that freedom is not respected in Spain, that free expression is not respected. To Mr Carles Riera, of the CUP, I would like to ask you if it has not been five or six years since saying from here what you want. If it doesn't take five or six years to defend independenceist ideas of breaking up Catalonia with the rest of Spain. And I don't see that Mr. Carles Riera is currently in jail for defending his ideas, nor do I have the impression of seeing any jailer, huh? , in my surroundings. To Mr Roger Torrent, to the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to say that I do not have the impression, after having heard his speech last Sunday, that no one is repressing him from saying what he believes and defends, which is a real fear, what happened last Sunday after listening to his words. And here it is, presiding over this plenary with complete freedom, as it cannot be otherwise. That's why we have to say things the way they are. And things are as they are..., is that the motion for a resolution that you are presenting to us today, the only thing you intend to do is divert attention from reality. Because the reality, for example, is not that Mr. Jordi Sànchez is in Soto del Real for being independentist, Mr. Jordi Sànchez is in Soto del Real for assaulting a Civil Guard car, for putting himself on top of the hood... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] To defend a subversion, huh? That's why Mr. Jordi Sànchez is in Soto del Real prison. And Mr. Puigdemont, if he's in a prison in Germany, he's not because of his ideas. Mr. Carles Puigdemont is in a prison in Germany for trying to cause Catalonia to break with the rest of Spain. And this has a name, which is a blow to the state, to the democratic state it represents and which is this country. This weekend – this weekend – a journalist, in a_media, not Madrid, huh? , but in a written medium of communication, from Catalonia, specifically in The Journal of Catalonia, wrote the following: "Independence has burned the Catalan institutions, it has burst the model of parties, it has broken the coexistence between Catalans, it has faced many of them with the rest of the Spaniards, it has put the system of the whole state in crisis and it has eroded the international reputation. I subscribe and add: independence has not won. Independence, as has been shown, has not been able to get away with it. This nation is very big. Spain is not an invention four days ago, and they can be sure that we are many Catalans who are very proud of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.21.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. Next, to indicate the elements that are accepted and the text that is put to the vote, has the word, for a period of two minutes, Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.22.0	Bon jour, another time. In relation to the papers, therefore, both the Republican Parliamentary Group and the CUP, so, obviously, we do not accept any of the papers they have submitted to us. And to make very brief comments in these two minutes, so, well, to Mrs. Arrimadas, when you speak of the "groups of separation, I already understand why after we do not have to greet him, because the first one that is separated is you; therefore, I will not enter here. And when you speak of the "bubbles, I suppose you must refer to the "bubbles of the electoral polls of 21st December, that nobody gave victory to the Republican groups of this Parliament." With regard to the Socialist Party, therefore, I very much appreciate it to Congressman Pedret. To say that, for our part, therefore, we always condemn any type of coercion to the parliamentary activity of any Member or Member elected to the Parliament of Catalonia. I believe that this is an unbreakable red line, and therefore in these points of agreement we will find it, but we also ask for facts – we ask for facts. We are at a time of a democratic abnormality, and, therefore, further away from this, so we ask for facts so that we can really continue to add up. On the legal discussions of the effect of the convention, therefore, we will not do so here. But, above all, we complain, that the moment is difficult... and, therefore, beyond all, they act in a sense when we have political prisoners here, or families here, in the hemicicle. In relation to Xavier..., so, well, tell him that we also have government, and we have an agreement and we can do it, but we have tried three investments and, as you know – and you will be sympathetic to us – we are getting invested, right? , of repression. And so, as soon as we get better, we also want this 155 out. But I would also reflect on it: let's not think that 155 will ever go away. He'll never be the same again. And how did you present – that I have written down – the axes, right? , of this agreement..., of course, he spoke of many policies that were already made in the previous legislature, and you said: "I am not going back. And I'm telling you, a lot of these policies... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , when we find in the unconstitutionality of the Constitutional Court that, in the end, we want the republic to be able to implement all these measures because what we want is the progress, the public social policies, so we will also go back again because the Constitutional Court will paralyze us each of these skills that we want and have exercised and are willing to re-exercise. But the republic and the 1st of October, for us, too, are irrefutable, if not in this path of civil rights, of struggle, of democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.23.0	Mrs. Geis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.24.0	... always be there. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. – one moment now, President, please – and in relation to the PP, so, well, I had always thought that democracy could speak of everything and you said and said that the idea of independence and the republic is unacceptable. That's how you understand freedom of thought. And as I used to say, when you say, "Speak, lie, always..." there's a phrase that I think is very adhesive, that you always have to see masked by a brute paella. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.25.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. I understand, Mrs. Geis, for whom you have commented, that you do not accept any of this. So, you vote on the text, as originally proposed, huh? [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Alamany?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.26.0	President, we ask for the vote by points, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.27.0	Of all two motions for resolutions? [[Pause.]] One of the two... all of them, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. As long as they asked for a separate vote from all points, we would proceed to vote point by point, huh? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.28.0	Yes, to explain why we are not going to vote on paragraph 1 of the motion for a resolution called 'd'allibement des députats procesats'. We, as Mrs Arrimadas has explained, do not accept, in our view, the interference of power..., of a legislative power over the judiciary. Therefore, at the point where it concerns judges and tells them what they have to do, who has to go in and out of prison, we are simply not going to vote on this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.29.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. We would therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the release of the Members... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me, yes. Call it a vote, yeah. First the warning, call for a vote, and then proceed to the vote. [[Long break.]] All right. We shall proceed to the vote on this first motion for a resolution: the motion for a resolution on the release of the Members who have been tried and the guarantee of political rights. As I said, as requested, we will vote point by point. Therefore, we will begin the vote on the first point of this resolution. The vote begins. This point of this motion for a resolution was approved by 74 votes to 20, with no abstentions. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on the second point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This second point of this motion for a resolution was approved by 66 votes to 64, with no abstentions. I'm sorry I forgot about one of the delegated votes in the previous vote, huh? I therefore have to count the delegation vote that I had forgotten in the last vote. Let's move on to the third point vote and move on from this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This third point of the motion for a resolution was adopted by 76 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And we would now vote on the proposal..., the second motion for a resolution, tabled by the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia, Gruppo Parlamentari Republicà and the CUP - Crya Constituent, which is the motion for a resolution on the compliment of the precautionary measures agreed for the UN Human Rights Committee to guarantee the political rights of MP Jordi Sánchez and Picanyol. In this case, we will also vote separately point by point. We shall therefore begin with the vote on the first point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And we would now, therefore, vote on the second point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This second point was approved by 76 votes to 56, with no abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution on respect for coexistence and institutional neutrality]] [[250-00106/12]] After the vote on these motions for resolutions, we shall proceed to the debate and vote on the remaining motions for resolutions that have been tabled. In this case, the third item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on respect for coexistence and institutional neutrality; a motion for a resolution presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Therefore, to present this initiative, in the first place, has the word, for a maximum time of two minutes, as we have done before, the Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Madame Arrimadas, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.30.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, as Mr Domènech said before, we are again before another improvised plenary, which is also a plenary that returns to an earlier chapter of this fiction novel of the process, because we return to the previous chapter of Mr Puigdemont. We had already gone through other chapters – Mr.Sànchez, Mr. Turull – but this proves that you have no plan or strategy; you are improvised and all you are looking for is basically having a president in prison; that's what you are looking for. They tried with Sànchez; they tried with Turull, but here the gentlemen of the CUP, therefore, made a bad move, because they did not coordinate with them either, and now we are again with the chapter of returning to Puigdemont, which, as you know, is now detained by justice and in prison in Germany, right? I believe that this plenary, this improvised plenary, this plenary that probably does not serve for you to recognize any kind of mistake of anything, or to help us find a way out, I think it is a good full to remember basic things in a democracy. And that is what our motion for a resolution is about, it is a very basic question; we are talking about points that should not be remembered, that it would not be necessary to be remembered in a democracy, but that today in Catalonia they need to be remembered again. For example, politicians and rulers cannot be above the law. We are concerned about that debate in which you have always been involved in the last few years in which you said that if a politician wins the elections he can do what he wants. No, ladies and gentlemen of the process, we have won the elections and we cannot do what we want, and we cannot skip laws that seem unfair to us, and we cannot say that the courts cannot prosecute us; no, we continue to be, like any citizen: we have to comply with the laws, those that we like and those that do not, and we have to submit ourselves to the courts if, then, one day we go beyond that legal order. And no, we do not believe that we can say from this Parliament what the German judges have to do or what the judges of our Spanish democracy have to do; it does not seem legitimate to us, it does not seem reasonable to us, it seems to us a barbarity on which I believe you have simply not even reflected, because, if not, I am sure that you would not have reflected in this way so clearly – you and the Lords of Podemos, because you say exactly the same thing in your proposal – what the judges have to do and who has to enter and leave prison in a democracy, whether German or Spanish. We believe that it is necessary to remember, because behind this process there is a quest for impunity. And this process was initiated by some people who were perhaps looking for impunity for corruption-related crimes, and perhaps for 3 percent. [[Some applause.]] But the desire for impunity... well, it seems like it's a thing that moves quickly to another kind of crime. Well, well, no, politicians have to comply with the laws. Point. The rulers can see that they are subject to the action of justice when the laws are jumped into a democracy, yes. And that's one of the amazing points for some, huh? So... that they go beyond reasonableness to others, that we are going to defend and that we hope that this Parliament will be able to vote in favour. The second point: we want the President of Parliament – I know what a strange thing we are already asking for – to be impartial and neutral, and if he makes an institutional declaration he will do it by complying with the rules to make an institutional declaration, which is with all parliamentary groups, and if he makes an institutional declaration he will not say a barbarity like that a president of the Generalitat de Catalunya cannot be prosecuted by the courts. Let us hope that the President of Parliament will realize the barbarity he is saying and is doing and in the very committed situation that he is putting the Parliament of Catalonia; he is, even more, undermining the seriousness that the figure of the President of Parliament has always had. We cannot allow the President of all, the President of all the Members, and therefore of all the Catalans whom we represent, to be simply a spokesman for the third party of the elections, of the Republican Left of Catalonia. And that's why – and that's why – after all the mistakes, after having blocked Parliament so many months, after presenting two candidates that he knew perfectly well that they would not be able to be presidents, after opening to institutional statements the Parliament that expel more than half of the population, after saying that the rulers do not have to subject us to justice, after all that, we think that the Speaker of the Parliament either rectifies or has to resign – or rectifies or has to resign. To correct..., we have already seen that today a plenary has been convened, that today again has allowed Parliament to decide who has to go in and out of jail, which is barbarity. And, therefore, we maintain that Mr Torrent must resign from his responsibility. Because just as we need a President of the Generalitat to comply with the laws and to respect all Catalans, we need a President of the Parliament to fulfil his role of impartiality and neutrality in the Bureau of the Parliament, and to contribute to solutions, not to problems. Mr Torrent is helping to fuel the social confrontation and institutional blockade, and is flagrantly failing to comply with conditions that are basic to any President of Parliament. The third of the points we speak of and ask for in our motion: we have to return to social reconciliation, we have to ensure coexistence. The coexistence has been broken in recent years by the recklessness of the independence parties, by the obscurity in this process; that it will not give any fruit, none, nor to those who vote for independence parties, nor to those who vote for parties that we are not independenceists. It will not give you that republic, that happy Arcadia in which you choose judges and are unpunished. He's not coming. Luckily, it's not coming; lucky for everyone, it's not coming. But what I sincerely believe, that we all have to make an effort to ensure that all voters in Catalonia – all, vote for those who vote – feel part of the citizens and people of Catalonia. And I ask and repeat that every time you make those speeches to say that all the people of Catalonia are with Puigdemont..., you are expelling, dialectically expelling, more than half of the Catalans that we have not voted for political forces that seem to support secessionism or that seem to support Puigdemont as a possible candidate. And we must also say very concrete things and denounce concrete things: the independence parties continue to declare people not grateful to the Catalans for their ideas. To us, you, members of your parties, declare us ungrateful people. What that means is not only that I or my colleagues are declaring us ungrateful people, but that the message you are sending to the population is that those citizens of those municipalities who have voted for our parties are also ungrateful people in their homes. And that's the reflection exercise that you don't know if you don't or don't want to do. That kind of speeches that exclude, that kind of statements of people not grateful for our ideas, that excludes voters from those municipalities, Catalan voters who have also trusted Citizens. And we must firmly condemn – and I hope you will – the violent acts, threats, public signals; which they do in a way, in addition..., the lords of the youths of the CUP, taking the brunt of the signal and threats in private houses. You really have to condemn this, to condemn that violence and to condemn those threats that are taking place absolutely blatantly in recent months in Catalonia. And the last point of our motion: we have to get out of this loop of the process. Ladies and gentlemen of the process, the gum of the process is no longer enough. And you're going back to previous chapters. This is no longer a full road, this is already a maze in which you don't even know how to get out. We have to tell the truth. You have to do an exercise to tell the truth: there will be no independence, there will be no republic, you have no international support, you have no social majority, you have no legal coverage, you have nothing to fulfill that promise that you have made for so many years. And what surprises me most is that they don't do anything self-critical. Do you believe that we were here so calmly, talking about parliamentary debates within the jurisdiction of Catalonia, and suddenly arrived at 155? Did he suddenly fall out of the sky? Or have you declared independence? Or have you spent public money on illegal things? Or have you spent and used personal data from Catalans – DNIs and addresses from Catalans – for an illegal referendum? Or have you spent money on state structures while cutting public services? Do you not do anything, not a point of self - criticism? Not even a little bit? Not even in that they do not even have a judicial strategy, that some run away without telling the others, so that they can then harm them? Or that Mr. Puigdemont keeps talking on his social networks and issuing letters, until a couple of days ago, talking about the republic? You..., we have said it many times: we understand, understand and respect the situation that families and people closest to people who are in a very complicated judicial situation are going through, but you are not helping much either; you are also not helping much so that the situation can go on a better course. No one's coming from outside to save our ballot. The solution, of course, beyond the application of the law, which must also apply to politicians – yes, also to politicians, in a democracy – will come out of this Parliament when you understand that there is no more process, that already the gum of the process gives no more, when you understand that you have to respect us, when you understand that right now those feelings that you have, of indignation, of sadness, all Catalans also have them, for different reasons...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.31.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.32.0	You will be... yes, I will do the same as the deputy of Junts per Catalunya, if you will allow me, Mr President. I'll be right there. You have to understand that your Members and your voters have the same feelings as we do. What happens, that indignation for you comes from the judges doing their work; indignation for us comes from the barbarities that the Government of the Generalitat has done. We have to go back to what unites us. We have to go back to living together. We have to go back to reconciliation. We need to talk again in this Parliament about health, education, infrastructure. But that's what we're gonna have to do within the law. And until you understand that you have to return to the democratic ground of the Statute of autonomy, of the Constitution, of the law, of respect for the separation of powers – basic, in a democracy – we will certainly continue..., you will continue to feed those feelings and we will continue to see how you feed them. Return to the democratic ground; your process is no more, the time has come to tell the truth. And please, I ask you: Catalonia and Catalans cannot wait for more chapters of this endless process. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.33.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Next, to defend the papers presented, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party. Mr. Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.34.0	Thank you very much, President. The Citizens' Group is presenting a motion for a resolution to talk about coexistence and parliamentaryism that we share – we have tabled an amendment, which we have negotiated, on the violent expressions of the CoRs in the last few days – and, given that I have only five_minutes, allow me to focus on the part concerning coexistence, the amendment that we have tabled and point 4, which refers to the figure of people who are not grateful. Separatism bases, today more than ever, its discourse on identity and feelings: "We are, "we feel. « We are, « we feel; only they feel, it is only they, to the others who give us. Precisely for this reason, the arbitrary, systematic and abusive use of the figure of the non-grateful person what he seeks is the destruction of identity and feelings, the civilian death, in short, of the person who receives such consideration, tens of people who have received it in recent times. I was recently pointing out in this plenary session... not in this plenary session, Mr Quim Torra, that the difference between your side of the bench and that of the others is that in an inverse situation you would defend our rights. Lie! They've never done it. Allow me to return for a moment to the question of identity. Identity is important to everyone, of course it is. Anyone who knows me knows that my tarragonese condition is very important to me: it defines me in many things. I suppose the same happens to you with your place of birth or where you live. The problem is that in politics identity is dangerous, especially when it becomes the backbone of an ideology, because either you assume the identity in its entirety that imposes you, or you lose citizenship: there are only 2_million Catalans; the rest, I repeat, they give us. Either you assume the identity as it is demanded of you or you are stripped of even dignity. The scale of less to greater aggression of public mockery that they have been posing in recent times is nauseating: « botifler, « colono. They call us « colonists – don't miss it, « colonists. And it doesn't make him a loner on Twitter; I've read it to many of you on social media. The next thing is to declare you persona non grata. And the next step is to put someone's personal address on social media. Do you really intend, Mr. Torra, to make us believe that you would defend our rights? They've never done it. Let me also turn to the question of feelings. It gives me some modesty to talk about feelings in Parliament, because we have them, all of them, and they are all legitimate. In fact, civic policy consists in removing feelings and being able to seek through the rule of law spaces of coexistence where all ideas can be expressed. But, well, you guys talk a lot about feelings. The other day, in an intense intervention, Mr Pujol talked about how they mistreated their feelings. Well, well, I'm going to make an exception, and even though I'm a little modest, today I'm going to talk about our feelings here. Look, for decades, the terrorist band ETA killed hundreds of people, many of them in Catalonia, also politicians, in Catalonia: Ruiz Casado, Paco Cano, Ernest Lluch, among others. There is a historical leader of that band, Arnaldo Otegui, whom you present in society as a hero of peace and make smiling selfies with him. That doesn't make them terrorists, in fact; but do you think that comforts our feelings? In 1977, Carles Sastre placed a bomb on José María Bultó's chest and blew it up. Now you walk that gentleman through the referendum summits and make selfies smiling at him. That does not actually make them terrorists; do you think that comforts our feelings? They constantly say that Madrid mistreats their feelings. Have you ever stopped to think about how you have treated something more than half the Catalans during all these years? Have they ever stopped to reflect on how we felt when they called us "botiflers, " colonists, when they declared us unthankful people, when they took pictures with convicted terrorists, or when they hung our addresses, scratched our car, or tried to harass us in our homes? Have they ever thought about it, since it is a matter of feelings? Here's mine, ours. Therefore – and I am going to end now – you will have to inter..., well, be able to rationalize an issue that costs you a lot, and you will have to be able to assume that once and for all: any future solution to the conflict that we are experiencing, "of coexistence" – as the motion for a resolution says – will go through the assumption of three principles: the first is that we all have identity, not just you; we all have feelings, not just you, and we all have dignity, not just you. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. [[Greetings.]] Next, in order to position herself, has the word Ms. Marta Madrenas, in the name of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.36.0	MPs, MPs, friends and friends, the first one who is surprised to hear you defend this motion for a resolution referring to coexistence is the whole, the arena that you have just used, that goes a long way from what you propose in paper but that you do not actually propose. [[Some applause.]] In fact, today too, as Mrs Gemma Geis, it is true, today it is my first intervention, and in fact, as she was also excited, she made me wonder if I could compare before all of you, before the people of Catalonia, in order to be an active part, like all of you, of the proposals, debates, reflections, approvals, in short, of legal instruments that come, therefore, to advance in the progress of our society, that proceed to work in the welfare of our citizens. And I find it hard that I have to justify, therefore, the feeling of the vote of our parliamentary group on a motion for a resolution that will not be so – that will not be so. Because, listen, the lords of Ciutadans, for many months, have been many months, already, that at every intervention of Ciutadans that I may have had the opportunity to feel from this very hemisphere, in the previous legislature, in the present, as also in the electoral campaign, or whenever you have the opportunity to express yourself publicly, always continue and follow with the same song as you are tired of the process and that to you who really worry them are the problems of the people, unlike us, is clear. When you say that you're concerned about people, it must be that we don't; otherwise, I guess they wouldn't stand out so much. But it turns out that this motion for a resolution... that today you have had the opportunity to make any motion for a resolution on any issue that directly affects people; so, it turns out, no, that what you are making is a motion for a resolution that affects very directly, huh? , very..., which calls for the resignation of the Speaker of Parliament, ends, eh? , demanding the resignation of the president, and asking to condemn the motions in the plenums of the assemblies that declare not grateful people, right? That's to say, I don't know, they're moving away a little bit from what you're defending. And it's maybe they're right to do this, because that's political and it's people's business, too, huh? And, therefore, perhaps they come to our reasonings that all this, all that is happening in the country, does directly affect the people. And it is that all that they have asked for today in the concrete proposals of their resolution called for a return to institutional normality. And I agree with that, too. True, we are in absolute institutional abnormality; in fact, in absolute democratic abnormality. "We have to recover normality. So much! We're totally on board. We have been living in this unusually abnormal context in democratic terms for a long time. For you – for you – I see that democratic normality means putting a good eye and hands in the ears. Because it means making you see that here, in our country, there is absolutely nothing going on. It means making it clear that there are no political prisoners in our country. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, exactly. See? Good eyes and hands to ears. It means that you make see – make see – that there are no political exiles. It means that you see that there is no repression of ideas or disagreements. You claim to oppose and suppress and that the government in which you are co-authors – you are no longer complicit, you are co-authors with the PP government – therefore attack and suppress disagreements. And this is a clear demonstration of a democratic society? No, absolutely immature in democracy. Because precisely a society that wants to consider democratic is one that protects its disagreements, not attacks and suppresses them. You pretend that the one who... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Jo... can you go... you... I don't care, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.37.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.38.0	Thank you, Mr. President. What you're pretending is that we, the people we think are different, the people we think that most of our people have an idea of where they want to go to this country and we defend it, they're pretending that we're going to lower our heads, we're going to acquit ourselves, we're going to accept the presidential candidate, I don't know, that I proposed or Mr. Rajoy, or some judge, or someone from you... I don't know, it's that I don't know who anymore. The question is not to accept what the people have proposed, this is the question. So, this is democracy according to you, isn't it? We, indeed, want to return to democratic normality, we want to, together for Catalonia. We want there to be no more political prisoners and exiles. And when I tell them that they're political prisoners and exiles and you're trying to say that it's not because of their ideas..., that – I'm sorry – they said: "Let me know, no one here has open processes for their ideas. So, guati, me, for example, huh? - me, for example, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I'm sorry. [[Funnel veils]] No, no, no, no. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did you see, the one who said the cause? So, no, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And what these people have done, the ignominy so terrible that they have made these people, that they deserve to spend years and years in prison and to be far from their families, what they have done may not be to think, what they have done is to make themselves available to the majority, the majority of Catalonian citizens, to allow them to express themselves democratically. That's what they did. This is the great crime that our prisoners and our exiles have done. [[Greetings.]] So, effectively – effectively – we want these political prisoners and these exiles to cease to exist. So we can begin to recover political normality. We want you to stop denying – deny – the existence of the brutal oppression that was inflicted on a large part of the citizens of Catalonia on the 1st of October, which you stop loving. Not as long as I'm sorry, no, it's about him being piled up! One thing obvious to the whole world – one thing obvious to the whole world – that has come out to all the media from all over the world and that, in fact, moved the whole world when they could see it. We want no one to expel our democratically chosen rulers – democratically – for whom they defend. That's what we want, and that's getting back democratic normality. We demand that the results of 21 December be respected. Isn't that democratic normal? I mean, what were the results of the 21st of December election contest? Doesn't it matter to them for nothing, the majority will of the citizenry? Is that it? And do you want to teach us lessons from democracy? Besides, you can't still be defending yourself... well, go, excuse me, if we speak with rigor... obviously you can do it. [[remorse of the voice]] But if we speak with rigor we cannot continue to defend you the fact that the candidates we have presented, who are the ones who have been democratically chosen for the majority of the citizenry..., tell us that they are "obviously... unviable– "unviable, I think I remember, eh? 'Cause I don't have it here, the kid. Listen, the candidates proposed, say what they say – say what they say –, have their political rights intact. And this has just been recognized by an institution with much more sun than I can assume. Because there has been institutional normality they cannot continue the heavy, very serious judicial interference in the case of the political debate; this must disappear. There is a shameful confusion of the executive and judicial powers, and that has to stop being so. And that's what we'd all have to condemn, all of us would have to condemn. You too; you are representing the city of Catalonia, at all in its conjunction. You don't have to be allowed to go through this. The destination of the countries, the destination of the people of the countries, must decide the same people, and it must be decided in ballot boxes, not in punches or in sentences, in ballot boxes. [[Greetings.]] And it's true, it's true that I have to put on the table very uncomfortable...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.39.0	Mrs. Madrenas, walk away, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.40.0	Oh, yes, I'm sorry. It's true that I have to put on the table very uncomfortable, very, as the right to decide, as the right to self-determination... And we're willing to do it. We've got a chance to regain democratic normality, obviously. Because, guaitine, like at least half the Catalans – like at least half the Catalans – we want this: we want to work for the right to self-determination of our people, we want it. Do you think you're ignoring it? Don't you have a single proposal in this sense? Do they care about anything, anything that matters as much as half the people of Catalonia? I think they believed that they didn't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.41.0	Mrs. Madrenas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.42.0	Yes, and excuse me, I finish – I finish – a_second only. On the issue of coexistence and real people's problems: what should you explain to us about real people's problems? To solve the real problems of the people, it takes high doses of humanity, empathy, to put yourself in the place of others. And what's certain is that you showed yourself the other day to be incapable of having all these virtues. We'll check it out at the end of the day, when the family, the women and the children of their company...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.43.0	Mrs. Madrenas, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.44.0	Yeah, right now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.45.0	Time's up. That's it – that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.46.0	...of his companions who are in prison, who are exiles, his companions from the hemicicle, who did not have the courage to do so or... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.47.0	Thank you, Mrs. Madrenas. [[Greetings.]] It is now the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr. Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.48.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, let me start by denouncing incoherence and denouncing some lies, which I think we need to make from this Faristol. I have heard in a very intense way that this Parliament cannot claim the release of political prisoners. I ask them to explain to me when we can claim it and when we can't, because I voted for motions for resolutions which called for the release of political prisoners from other countries, to Llatina America, to Asia. [[Greetings.]] Say'm...', say'myous– say'myous–, when we can do it and when we can't... [[The applause continues.]] Because the problem, the problem that you have, is that you want to store what is going on in the Spanish State. Why do you insist on the subsidies that are not cultural, and, in change, do you ever talk about the subsidies that the Fundació Francisco Franco says? Why do you often talk about TV3 and don't keep your mouth shut when you play El Exorcista's music talking about what we're doing in this Parliament? That's enough. You have to end this inconsistency and these lies. Because I don't think they can look me in the face so we don't greet them. They can't do it – they can't do it – and if not, Mr. David Mejía tells me too, tell me to my face. Because you can't lie – you can't lie – there's enough to report things that don't go by trying to generate a fracture. That's enough, really. And now, you come back with resignations, that you are the party, say, to ask for resignations: the van asked by Mr. Saura, the van asked by the Puigdemont, the van asked by Mr. Junqueras, the van asked by the syndic of hardships, the van asked by Mr. Carme Forcadell, the van asked by the Mr. But, attention, the same night of the elections in 2015, the same night already called for the resignation of Mr. Mas, who had not even begun the legislature. You're very firm with some resignations, very firm. For example: « Ciutadans requests Rajoy's resignation for the lies in the Soria case. Well, very steady. That was September 2016. There you go! , October 2016: « Rivera talks to Rajoy and confirms the yes of Citizens to his investiture. Deu-n'hi-do la fersa – deu-n'hi-do la fersa. [[Greetings.]] End of story... End of story, end of story, end of story, "Ciutadans demands Guindos' resignation for lying in the Soria case. Very well, that was 2016; 2018: « Citizens support Guindos'candidacy for the ECB, although he believes that the government loses its best minister. Deu-n'hi-do – deu-n'hi-do, deu-n'hi-do – his firmness. [[Greetings.]] Deu-n'hi-do his firmness with injustices – deu-n'hi-do, deu-n'hi-do. I'm surprised at you all the time. It does not cease to surprise you to criticize the monotheme, but if you live from the monotheme. They don't talk about nothing, about the monotheme. Every press wheel you make is about the monotheme. If they do nothing more, you, than the monotheme. It's more, I'll add: they don't do anything more than try to tie the fracture, try to tie it to us, try to tie it to us, try to tie it to this Parliament, try to tie it to the fronts. And it's exactly the opposite of what we have to do, it's exactly the opposite. Do you know what's going on with living together? Do you know what Spain is going through? Yeah? So, I'll tell them. Probably, the secret of books, segregate publications, like Fariña, that breaks Spain. Prohibit exhibitions, like Arc; this trenches Spain. Put in the prison rappers to make songs; this breaks Spain. Put lots to eat blowjobs to the people protesting to the lives of the train, to Murcia; this breaks Spain, it breaks the right and it breaks democracy. Because we are living a flagrant violation of rights – flagrant. We've seen the secret breach of secret correspondence. We've seen how the right of assembly was violated. We've seen how the protest right was violated. We've seen how the right of freedom of expression has been violated. All this we've seen in these months. Don't they think that's what's breaking democracy? Don't you think that's probably what makes living together difficult? Do you not think that exactly what we should do is deepen democracy, deepen what everyone can think with complete freedom? Isn't that supposed to be it? But no – but no – you continue, insistently, always with the monotheme. I'm asking for a little humanity, because I think we need to talk, too. This goes for democracy, yes, yes, indeed; but also for humanity, too. And to me, really, I have to tell them to freeze my color to see how you guys do headlines and kicks with the pain and patience of others. It's breaking my color. One hundred and sixty-three Nits Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart at the Soto del Real prison; 146 Nits d'Oriol Junqueras and Quim Forn at the Estremera prison; 37 Nits borrowed from the Lord Bassa, the Lord Romeva, the Lord Rull and the Lord Turull; 6 Nits, Carme Forcadell; 3 Nits, Carles Puigdemont. Will you continue to make headlines easy with the patience of others? You're going to keep saying what the chair game is? The chair game is these empty chairs, because they're in jail. [[Greetings.]] The game of chairs is to enter my desk and see the empty table of Mr. Romeva. [[Greetings.]] There's no shame in it! There's enough to laugh at other people's patience! They know what the novel of the process is, that both of them hired us and talked about the chapters, so the cards we send with the prison to talk to our partners and our friends. This is the novel of the process: the cards we have to send in order to be able to talk to our companions, who were here for a few days, and that here, yes, we can't say good morning. Let's make jokes, easy-to-treat headlines of others, because you're a bunch of pirates and a bunch of irresponsible people. [[Greetings.]] And, look, I'll talk to you about a perilous sedition, which is going to work in Extremera prison. "And I am revolting in these anguishes of watching them play tennis, because when I decided to take the step of being a prison officer, I knew perfectly well what I was doing, so I learned of the misery in which I was going to face myself, I will always find a remnant of light in such a tribulation, I thought; but nothing made me suspect that it would be used – yes, used as a public official, to solve in an ignominious way a problem that is only political. Now it has touched these catfishes of Catalonia, but you know that there are other species out there, at the point of sight of the hunter's shotgun and they are killing them with a brutality that can only explain a sharp hatred of class against class: parrots, rappers, funny dogs of Mongolia or intelligent Sepias of Arc. That's what a very process-related person says, huh? You don't know that with your fire, with your gas that you're pulling, you're carrying are the most basic sources of the right-wing state? It's just... it's honestly unbelievable. And you should empathize, defend everyone's rights and defend democracy. But, said that..., and I end up, president, insisting and noting, with a lot of firmness, that we are hard on you, very hard on you and that you have no name – it has no name – what you say and lie about in this faristol. But let me finish, said, president, with Miguel Hernández. Yesterday seventy-six years ago the poet died – seventy-six years ago. A March 28th of the year 1942. He was only thirty-one years old. I think it's good to remember Miguel Hernández, because I think he shows us a lot of things. He is a brilliant poet, as you know, born in Oriola. Who wrote, for sure, The man stalks and who, in his moment, is dictated to cremate, to secretate the publication and to cremate all the copies. The fate is that two survived, and that, then, we read them and enjoyed them. A man who was imprisoned, who was exiled – went to Portugal – and who was handed over to the Civil Guard by the Salazar Police, who undertook to take up bronchitis, typhus and, finally, tuberculosis, and who, in prison services, offered him penicillin if he abjured of his atheism, they offered him penicillin only if he abjured of his ideas. Okay. This is the history of the Spanish State. And Miguel Hernandez said in one of these poems, written from the prison, in paper of old, that he often did so, because he had no more means to do it and sent it to his wife, in one of the verses of Nanas of the goddess onion: "You laugh makes me free, / put me wings. / Soledads takes me away, / jail takes me away. / Mouth that flies, / heart that on your lips/ flashes. So, yes, despite the fact that you want us to be angry and bewildered, we will continue democratically, peacefully, with the smile and with the word, with the smile of knowing that up from the walls of the prison and with the free word so that we can always denounce the injustices that we are living and with the warmth of the embraces, that, unfortunately, for so much that you are angry, we cannot make them from a cold glass of the prison. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Moral Gomez. Now, to defend the position of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC - Units for Forwarding, it is the turn of Mrs. Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.50.0	Thank you, President. In order to position my group on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group with respect to coexistence and institutional neutrality, I will not exhale the two minutes of time, because Mrs Arrimadas has already said that it was a very basic proposal, and, in fact, it can be summed up with four sentences. They say: "To put the use of Parliament's party, exercised for its president. In favor, isn't it? You're obvious. "Let the future government work for respect for legality. In favor, too. It's also obvious; it's obvious. "That we are all equal before the law. So, in favor also, lords of Ciutadans, we are in favour. "The fact that public bodies are promoting initiatives of public assimilation to which they think differently. In favor. Maybe it's the Socialist Party that's the worst affected party for these checks these past months to our country. And lastly, you make a petition for resignation from the Speaker of Parliament to act in a partisan manner. And here we say she's a curious... a curious petition. A petition that they did not make in the past mandate, when Mrs Forcadell, systematically, violated the rules, did not pay attention to the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, did not respect the rights of the deputies and you did not, at any time, have the occurrence of requesting their resignation. Therefore, a curious petition, but also a petition that we consider useless, before the obvious recognition of the majority will of this Parliament that Mr Torrent is president and, if he was not, would be another one that I would be sure to act in the same way. And I wonder, Mrs. Arrimadas and Lords of Citizens, if this is all we can expect from you. The criticism is very good, but the constructive criticism is even better, and you repeat to us over and over again that you won the elections, and so we congratulate you, but the truth is that I believe that your voters expect something more than criticism and criticism and sterile criticism of the situation we are living in. Nor do we like the attitude of the President of Parliament. We don't like him either, because he's also acting partisanly. And you also say to us: « Let the process be over, let the process be over, let them repeat. And I ask myself: "What would Citizens be without the process? Also its voters, I believe, and all Catalans and Catalans ask themselves: "What would Citizens do if the process was over? We see what they do in Spain as a whole, that we do see. In the Congress of Deputies, you have just agreed on budgets with Rajoy, who, precisely, when the economy grows to 2.7, you agree on a social spending of 1.1. So what we see, that what is Citizens outside the process is a party that accompanies Mariano Rajoy, to the right, those Citizens who dedicate themselves to is to paralyse each and every one of the laws with social proposals at the Congress Bureau of Deputies. That's Citizens. [[Greetings.]] And, therefore, I say to you: here in Parliament many hope that the main party will be part of the solution. Because now what we see is that citizens are part of the problem: one front inflamed on the one hand, another front inflamed on the other. Are we helping to solve the problem that Catalonia has, gentlemen of Citizens? Do We Contribute? Do we decline the concept of dialogue? Because they come here and make a diagnosis, a lot of diagnosis. In this they look like Podemos: diagnosis, diagnosis, diagnosis. That's right, solutions, not one; we found no solution on the part of Citizens. And since they tell us every day that they have won the elections, they help solve the problem we have, because in the diagnosis we agree. You're leaving a part of it. And in our proposal – then Miquel Iceta will present it – we also say that, apart from the fact that there is disobedience, apart from the fact that there is no respect for the laws, there is also a lack of dialogue on the other hand. We want emotions to be reduced in this Parliament, let them be reduced, both of them. I think we'd be better off if we cut our emotions down a little bit, if we talked about a more rational parliamentarianism. And here's the difference between each other. Some are for revenge and others are for reconciliation. And I believe that, until this Parliament stops the revenge and takes the reconciliation, we will not solve the problem we have in Catalonia. The policy is to provide solutions, to explore agreements, from the law, from respect to the law. And that's why we say to the majority lords..., to the independenceists, ask them: respect the law. And from the respect of the law we can look for broad agreements; it is our responsibility as Members. Roasting doesn't help the citizenry, squatting doesn't help the voters of Ciutadans, and squatting each and every one of them on its front won't find any kind of solution. We agree with you. Article 31 of our Rules of Procedure – also the Statute of Autonomy – says that the President of Parliament has the representation of the chamber and that he must conduct the debates impartially. And, sadly, these two functions... Mr. Torrent can improve ostensibly in his exercise. It is true that he is not exercising the representation of the chamber, because he acts many times as a spokesman on one side of the chamber, and we have denounced it so far. The president of my group, Mr Iceta, has addressed the president on concrete questions that have not been answered. We have had petitions, plenary calls, reviews that the President did not want to take into account. He called in plenary and called them up indefinitely, thinking only of the rights of some Members, and not of the assembly of Parliament. And President Torrent, all that started his term well, and so we valued it, because his first intervention was about "return and dialog," it's true that later in his interventions, so he wasn't very successful. It is true that a few plenary sessions have been held indefinitely, and some of us could also think: "Well, if not, they did not bring themselves here to vote on investments that have brought more problems to the side of the chamber. But, for us the hardest, the last, and hopefully..., and we will vote against this resignation petition, but we want to make a call to President Torrent, we want to make a call that when he makes calls for unity, that he will not say unity if he does not count with everyone, and they will be unity when he counts with everyone. Because you made an institutional statement, because, Mr. Torrent, you're meeting with social entities, with unions, and you didn't want to talk to all the parliamentary groups in this chamber. And that's what you ratify that you're not the president of everyone when you want to make a call for unity for democracy and you don't talk to all the parliamentary groups in this chamber. We also ask him: in his interventions, he maintains what is respect for the division of powers and, above all, he places the assembly of the deputies of this chamber in his interventions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.51.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.52.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. I, before entering into Ciutadans' motion for a resolution, would like to make a point to Mrs. Eva Granados. You say that We can only diagnose and make no proposals, and I would like to recall that United We can, In Comú Pode and In Marea we presented a motion of censure to make out the People's Party of the Government of Spain, and you did not participate. And you didn't just take part, but we're waiting for you to file a motion of censure to make it out, and here, today and now, Mr. Xavier Domènech has put forward a proposal from a government of independents, where civil society takes the word. Therefore, I would stop making gratuitous statements, which, moreover, I believe do not add up and do not help to find solutions among all. And, said that, already entering into matter, yesterday Mr. Carrizosa qualified this Pleth of action and spectacle, and today Mrs. Arrimadas has begun to say that this Pleth would not be of much use. And the first thing I'd like to say to you, Mr. Carrizosa and Mrs. Arrimadas, is that the thing is that, with the political and social situation that is patenting right now Catalonia, you, instead of seeking solutions, presenting alternatives, reaching bridges, weaving alliances, instead of trying and working so that this Ple can serve something, you, instead of that, seek the easy holder with the petition for the resignation of Mr. Roger Torrent. That is their degree of responsibility: to demand the resignation of the President of the Parliament, who is the first authority we have in Catalonia right now and who you have decided that from now on he will be their antagonist to continue deepening the bloc policy, because that is what interests them. And I nail them to stop asking for resignations, not to produce. If everyone knows it's not going to happen, this resignation! So why are we wasting our time on this resignation petition? And, therefore, they remain responsible, presenting alternatives and proposals that allow us to get out of this blockade, which is why they are the majority group! Or, if you, as they say, bet to recover democratic normality, you should stand up and bring here a political proposal, which is what we are asking of all the groups in the chamber. As the majority group of this chamber, it is necessary to demand something more than to point out the errors of the process; that there are many, we know, and surely there are some that we will share with you the diagnosis, but with this we will not fix the situation. Therefore, we ask them to be politically honest in order to provide solutions to the blockade that we have now. And his proposal, when we start looking at it, what we see is that it's at least a release proposal. On the contrary, it is a proposal that generates more conflict, it is a proposal that seeks to get rid of a national conflict that is also fracturing us as the country, while at the same time you strengthen them as the party. And, therefore, who's pulling the tick out of the process? – who's stretching the path of the process? Don't look at me, Mr. Carrizosa. We... I'm telling you, we don't have a good trial, and you know it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I think it's clear that we don't. And, besides, I listen to them talk and I often notice how angry, don't I? A ton of revenge. And I can only see Mr. Rivera's tweet: "The last striker, who turns off the light, with the photograph of Mrs. Marta Rovira, at a time when there are people who have to leave because they want to take them to prison, at a time when there are people in pre-trial detention accused of a crime that several right-wing teachers have already said that there is no place and that has not happened, with families that are destroyed. And my question is, do they really think I'm tweeting sum? Do they really think that this is the right attitude? So I don't think so. And what I think too... and it's been talked about before the lack of humanity, isn't it? And Gerard was icing the color, the lack of humanity. It's not my color, the lack of humanity: it's my belief that the lack of humanity disables them to direct anything, disables them to govern anything. [[Greetings.]] Mrs. Arrimadas, you spoke the other day of emotion and empathy, today the Lord of the People's Party made it; any day we will make a appearance to Paulo Coelho because he talks to us about emotions as well. What I think is that a leader has to empathize with those who think like her, but also with those who think differently. And I'm not an independentist or a processor, and everyone knows it, it's no mystery, I'm not revealing anything. Actually, I'm very critical of the process and I think it's been irresponsible, too, many times. But make mine – make mine – the pain of people who have relatives and friends unjustly in prison. And I also know how to hear the uncertainty and why it generates among some people in Catalonia..., or so on, that Catalonia leaves Spain. There are people who are worried about, who don't want Catalonia to be independent and worried, and I can hear it too. And I can hear and share the rage that a part of the country has for the wave of authoritarianism. And I can also hear tiredness on the other hand that I don't know how we're gonna get out of this and that I think we weren't that bad before. Each has its own beliefs, and they're all very respectable. But what I believe is that a person who aspires to lead something, a person who is the leader of the majority group in this Parliament must know how to stand on the Sabbaths of the other. And clearly they're not doing it and they're not up. And they don't because you take advantage and take advantage of Catalonia to prevent the change in Spain too – it has been mentioned enough here too. The detail of rights and freedoms that we suffer here also affects the rest of the State. Catalonia, well, it's..., Catalonia is a model of coexistence, but we're also playing an alternate model for Spain, and you're enjoying it. You say that they want the form to govern Catalonia and that the Bureau of Parliament does not work arbitrarily, because what they want is to solve the real problems that exist in Catalonia; and at some points we can agree. But can you tell us what you're doing in Congress with the People's Party? Can you tell us what you're doing in Congress? I can tell you: there have been blocking from the Bureau proposals for topics that concern, and very much, the citizens of Catalonia and Spain. For example: raising the minimum wage, repealing the law bites, recovering the universal justice, improving the law of dependence. [[Greetings.]] This is all going away and blocking you to the Spanish Congress. Therefore, a mike of coherence would not go wrong, to begin with. And, it's true, you... plus, the motius presentation of your motion for a resolution started when you won the elections, it's true– and, plus, you know, you couldn't start the motius presentation in any other way – you won the elections. Now, doesn't it make them think – I say – that, despite having remained the first force in the elections, their enrollment in this Parliament is total? Why are elections unable to weave alliances with anyone? Why does the majority group feel they can't lead anything? They represent more than 1 million voters from the people of Catalonia and do not have a travel companion. And do they know what it's for? Because they're left with the marketing and the lack of politics. [[applause]] And why the headlines and the lack of responsibility. For all this, it is. Because you are the strength that increases the most in the worst moments of the process, because you take advantage of the wealth and wealth of the people who suffer the most. Because you are the political force that was born to pursue linguistic immersion, which is a tool of social cohesion and which was mainly useful for the child and girls of the working classes. Because you're the force that says it's social, but you're also proposing the one-time contract, which wants to precarise the entire labor market. Why do you always talk about schools in barracks, huh? , they talk a lot about the schools that are in barracks, that we are the community that most barracks have, but they are also in favor of the elite schools that secrete by sex and that each year they win 30_million euros. Sonia, don't tell me you don't, because you systematically abstain from voting to withdraw the concerts from the schools that secrete by sex, and with the 30_millions that carry these schools you could make every year of public schools. You say that they are concerned about the families they least have, but leave them completely abandoned by vetoing the PAH Housing Law at the Congress. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans – and this is the end of it – we will not get out of this crisis by asking for the resignation of Mr Roger Torrent; nor will we get out by presenting legal motions, which is what you basically do. We'll get out with politics, and for now they're alone, absolutely alone and alone and without politics. And we won't move forward if the country doesn't make a critical reading of everything that's been going on these years, and that's what we can agree on. But let's be clear, neither will we advance if the only exercise we do is a critical reading. I want to look at the future and agree on a political proposal that encloses the whole of the country, which thinks like you, but also the one that does not think like you. And for the time being, his lack of humanity, I repeat, disables them for everything, disables them to lead and rule. It is necessary a new stage that leaves behind the blockade, a stage that demands policy as the tool to build solutions. I want to do it in Catalonia, I want to do it in the State. And, therefore, dialogue, responsibility and humanity. And please do the favor of getting out of your blocking position, because they've become a blocking force and not a solution, and they're on the rise. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.53.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Mrs. Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.54.0	Good morning. Once again all our solidarity, recollection and escalation for those who suffer and have suffered police brutality, the executing arm of the State, untangled against civil society, violent and suppressed repression of the State apparatus against any process of social and collective organization: 1,500 wounds since October 1, schools assaulted, one hundred and forty websites shut down, police attacks on journalists, political pressure, exiled persons, broken-down links, brutal war, institutional violence and judicial prevarication. Before that, Ciutadans, far from condemning the violence, demands that he be decorated and rewarded all the police who beat, humiliate and assault our people. His reaction: to reward police brutality, to reward impunity. That's what causes social division, that's what prevents coexistence, just like the one hundred and forty fascist attacks we've suffered in the last few months in the Catalan Countries. We have suffered them with the complicit silence of the institutions; we have not yet heard them condemn the violence and the absolute resolution of the six young neo-Nazis of Valladolid. The division and the social fracture comes from a society that is absolutely divided for the poor, where the logic of the benefit, where the interests of the market are the center of policies, in which denunciations and corruption are realities that enjoy absolute impunity, in which paying the debt to the bank is much more important than people's phone laws. Mrs. Arrimadas, concrete examples. Citizens did not collect the law against the bank abuse, they positioned against the law of taxes on the banks and did not collect the creation of a tax on the luxury goods; I suppose these are the things that concern people. Those who cause social fracture are the ones who attack the Catalan public school and the model of linguistic immersion, which guarantees equal opportunities and social inclusion of all Catalans; of all Catalans, Mrs. Arrimadas. You, who make you see that you are so concerned about public health, are the same people who are in favour of removing the health net for people who are migrating, who suffer institutional racism. What causes social fracture is a labour reform that facilitates accommodation and allows workers to change their conditions and to precaritize working conditions; you, as Mrs. Albiach has already said, defend the one contract, at once without cause, absolutely ridiculous compensations. What also causes social fractures are completely inadequate public servants, who are not able to sustain life and who carry this responsibility to the women. Let us remember that Ciutadans did not collect the Law of Protection of Municipalities. Parin' to lie to the people already, full of lies. And if anyone has to resign, they are the ones who govern and those who support governments who give the scale to the community, who give the scale to the right and the needs of the popular classes and who govern for corrupt and bankers. And no, all the cities are not the same before the law, because the law is not the same before all. You're the ones who vote day and day, not the ones who have to get out of jail. Rodriguez Galindo, sentenced to eighty years for the assassination of Lasa and Zabala, only completed four of them; the two civilian guards sentenced for the material facts, Dorado Villalobos and Bayo Leal, received a vital pension before being expelled. José Barrionuevo and Rafael Vera – the late arrivals to prison for the feeling of the segrest of Second Marey in the plot of the LAG – had to complete two years of prison, they completed two hours. Two-hundred_twenty-six policies convicted of corruption and pardons between 2000 and 2010 – 226 policies convicted of corruption and pardons between 2000 and 2010. Urdangarin and Torres, in freedom. Millet: He hasn't spent more than thirteen days in the garjola, for an estimated theft of 35_million euros. Josep Lluís Núñez : in full thirty-eight, from 780. De la Rosa: he left the prison after being 'hivint-i-dos días', he had to complete six-cents. Guillem Agulló: The killer only completed four years of prison, 2001 was presented in a neo-Nazi list; the next 14th of April was completed twenty-five years of his murder. He didn't forget or forgive. And it is that, Mrs. Arrimadas, impunity is determined by the class. In Hannah Arendt's words, codes of conduct, punishment and punishment that apply to society never affect the crimes of the elite...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.55.0	Lady Sirvent, please....
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.56.0	...protected– agreed, Mr. President – for an operational circuit of power named "impunity". And lastly, in Oscar Romero's words, murdered by the state terrorism in El Salvador: "Justice is like the serpent, it only bites barefoot. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.57.0	Thank you, sir. Next, to indicate the elements that are accepted and the text that is final and that is put to vote, therefore, has the word of new Mrs. Arrimadas, for a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.58.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We are going to accept one of the amendments by the People's Party and we are going to respond to some of the things that have been said by the rest of the speakers. Yes, we are in another full of the monotheme, convened urgently by its president – when I say« I say well: « his, of Esquerra, his president of the Parliament – to make visible the procedural situation of the prisoners. Recognized directly, that is, to talk about the process. And I say one thing: we Citizens, we are decisive in other autonomous communities: in Madrid, in Murcia... By the way, Mrs Granados : in Andalusia ; do not eliminate Andalusia, do not forget Andalusia, which you have forgotten, you have had a little lapsus. In Andalusia, in Madrid, in Murcia... To you, where there is no conflict, where there is no nationalism and where there is no process, it is not that it goes wrong: it is that neither exist as a party. I know, I know if you are served by the process and nationalism. [[Greetings.]] We are also decisive..., not only here: where there is no process and there is no nationalism we are also decisive. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.59.0	Quiet, quiet, and please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.60.0	Gentlemen of Podemos, just a little reflection in these two_minutes: reflect. Do you know why you have eight Members of Parliament in Catalonia? Because you are dedicated to defending the heirs of the 3-percent Convergence, who have declared independence unlawfully, and to attacking the majority group and Citizens. That is why you have eight Members in Parliament. [[Greetings.]] And, to finish, you have had ten_minutes – ten_minutes! – and they have not been able to recognize that it is not necessary to declare persona non grata, to denounce attacks, intimidations, threats, warnings... Ten_minutes. From Mrs. Madrenas, with her history, I expected it. Mr. Gómez del Moral, of you not, of you did not expect it, because it is true that you greet; other companions of yours do not, but you do greet. And Mrs. Madrenas... what are we going to expect from a lady who takes the megaphone, as mayor, and is going to shatter public officials? [[Greetings.]] What do you expect from this lady? What do you expect from Mrs. Madrenas, who encourages you to cut the train tracks to harm workers and people who want to go on vacation after months of work? What do you expect from a woman who declares people unthankful in her town hall for her ideas? Can Mrs. Maderas tell us about restoring institutional normality?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.61.0	Mrs. Rimadas, please....
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.62.0	And I'm done, Mr. President. Institutional normality? You, who forbid your office to go to acts where there are members of the Government of Spain, do you tell me about institutional normality, which you have declared persona non grata to the head of state? You are the perfect example of what the process is: hatred, social fracture, encouraging civil servants to enslave, cutting roads... [[Greetings.]] No wonder that on a day like today, you simply had to say you can't threaten anyone, you can't crush anyone, you can't declare yourself a non-grateful person, you were the person chosen to stand up for the position of your parliamentary group. The process is social fracture...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.63.0	Madame Arrimadas, it's run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.64.0	...and with this I'm done. Before they denied it, it has taken years to deny that this divided society, and we remember it. Now they don't even have the ability to deny it. I'm telling you, from denying it to hiding it, as they do now, to solving it. If you start to stop declaring yourself a non-grateful person, not to encourage slavery to public officials, not to encourage people to harm the transports of Catalonia, if you start doing that, we may be a little closer to the end of the process and the principle of coexistence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.65.0	Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.66.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.67.0	All right. Before... yes, Mrs. Maderas, why ask me the word? [[Marta Madrenas and Mir intervene without using the microphone.]] Thirty seconds, Mrs. Madrenas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.68.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of all the five facts he attributes to me, he probably doesn't stop a single one. I don't know if you've done it in good faith or bad; I guess bad, because you're still lying. What is certain is, first of all, that we have broken the institutional relations between the representatives of the Spanish Government. According to him, that is true, we have declared not grateful, for example, Mr Enric Millo, that is true, and we have done so to give the altar to the will of the city, that she felt absolutely insulted by the events that passed October 1. [[Greetings.]] Thank you – thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.69.0	Yes, Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.70.0	We wanted to ask for a separate vote and read point number 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.71.0	All right. [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Mrs. Alamany, I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.72.0	Separate vote from point 4, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.73.0	Therefore, has it been requested, if I am not mistaken, to vote separately from points 4, 5 and 6? [[Pause. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.74.0	Yeah, for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.75.0	In any case – dispensi'm, Mr. Carrizosa, before... –, I understand that all groups have the transaction version, eh? There was an acceptance of papers by the People's Party; therefore, it is a different text from what the groups initially had. I understand that all groups have the same text, right? [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] All right. Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.76.0	Yes, to ask for the reading of points 4 and 5 of our motion for a resolution. [[Inés Arrimadas García asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.77.0	Yes, ma'am Arrimadas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.78.0	Mr. President, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.79.0	Thirty-seconds more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.80.0	They have been the most surprising allusions, because you begin by denying what I have said and end up affirming what I have said; therefore, thank you so much for reaffirming me in what I have just said. I briefly insist: are you aware that when you declare a person not grateful in your council by a political party you are declaring people not grateful to your voters as well? You in the city of Girona, as mayor, should know that in these elections one_of_each_five citizens have voted to my political formation, one_of_each_five of their citizens, of your city, of which you are mayor, has voted to Citizens. I ask you to reflect, that every time you do that kind of performance...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.81.0	Madame Arrimadas, it's been 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.82.0	...is publicly pointing to voters in our political formations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.83.0	Mr. Moral Gomez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.84.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.85.0	Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.86.0	Yeah, it's gonna be too short. No, because the most surprising allusions that I have heard are that it seems that the Republican Left did not have representation in Castile - La Mancha [[relays]] And it seemed to me that this was the most Matrix-like thing we've ever lived in this process. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.87.0	Let's get to the vote. As requested, we would vote first, in a first block, on the points [[remorse of the voice]] ... – please, silence – we would vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of this motion for a resolution, and then, separately and with prior reading of its contents, points 4, 5 and 6, I insist, of the version that has arrived, negotiated with the incorporation of items by the People's Parliamentary Group. For this reason, we would pass [[Funnel veils]] ... we'd call for a vote, yes. [[Long break.]] All right. We shall now proceed to the vote, I repeat, on points 1, 2 and 3 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This point in the motion for a resolution was rejected by 56 votes to 76, with no abstentions. And we will now proceed to vote, first, point 4 of this motion for a resolution. Before that, I would like to ask Secretary Pérez to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.88.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Point 4: 'Proposal for a resolution. It expressly condemns the inadmissible practices of declaring a person not grateful for his or her ideas and of publicly pointing out to those who think differently and act in the discharge of the public functions entrusted to him or her, and shows its strongest rejection of the fact that certain public officials promote such initiatives from the institutions to which they belong. In this regard, it undertakes to work to ensure that such intolerable practices for ideological reasons do not occur again in the future, as a way of preserving the coexistence of citizens and the proper functioning of the democratic system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.89.0	The vote begins. This point was rejected by 64 votes to 68, with no abstentions. We shall now vote on the fifth point of this motion for a resolution, which we shall also read out in advance. Mr. Secretaries?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.90.0	"In view of the finding that the President of Parliament, Mr Roger Torrent i Ramió, systematically exercises his functions arbitrarily and tendentiously in favour of the independence parties and lacking the institutional neutrality due to him, the Parliament requests that he resign from the position he holds so that the plenary of the Chamber can proceed to appoint a new President who can and wants to fulfil his duties properly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.91.0	Excuse me, now yes, the vote begins, the one that came out on screen was not valid. The vote begins. This point, five of this motion for a resolution, is rejected by 39 votes in favour, 92 against and no abstentions. And we would now vote on the sixth point and move on from this motion for a resolution. We'll do it before reading, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.92.0	Transactional theme with the Popular Party of Catalonia: "Violence can never be considered a legitimate instrument of demand and there is no justification for its perpetrators. For this reason, the Parliament of Catalonia strongly condemns the violent acts in which the recent rallies convened by the ANC, Ómnium Cultural and the so-called defense committees of the republic have resulted. The violent assaults on institutions; the destruction of urban furniture; the roadblock, which affects thousands of Catalans, and the attacks on police forces in recent days are typical of anti-democratic behaviour, which must receive the unanimous rejection of democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.93.0	The vote begins. This point was rejected by 56 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. There is no more point in this motion for a resolution to vote, so we would move to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution for dialogue and reconciliation. [[Proposal for a resolution for dialogue and reconciliation]] [[250-00107/12]] This proposal was submitted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units for Progress. To defend it, for a maximum time of two minutes, has the word Mr. Miquel Iceta. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask that if they have to get out of the room, they do it quickly, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.94.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament was the 17th generation, we are on March 28th and we follow without president and without government. We wanted to celebrate a full March 1 that served to know the position of each parliamentary group at the beginning of the parliamentary term and, finally, the failed investiture session of March 22 has put the clock in place. But the truth is that we're still without president and no government. And, therefore, the forecasts of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution authorized for the Senate are followed. Meanwhile, the deep social divide is maintained and even certain sectors are radicalised and violent and intolerant attitudes appear to respect people and their parties, and even so, trades and properties of those who do not share the opinion of the intolerants are established. But with no skirmishes, we can denounce attitudes and actions that can destroy coexistence and that can trigger a violence that is unstoppable. They have not brought good things to our country, to any country, and they must prevent them and put up with them while we are still in time. Examples that do not exist in the world, neither in time nor in space, should help us to avoid major evils. Certainly, we, and they see it in the text, condemn any violence, do not intend to attribute all responsibility to one or the other. In plenary on March 1, our group tabled a motion for a resolution which, in part, we reiterate today because it has not lost its force. They call for basic consensus-building. We propose the establishment of a _framework of dialogue between the Catalan political and social forces. We call for a constant effort of dialogue, negotiation and agreement rejecting any unilateral and illegal proposal. We defend the compliment of the law, because there is only democracy from respect for legality. We claim that it guarantees at all times the basic constitutional values, the rights of the citizenry and the international treaties signed by Spain that guarantee the rights of all. And let us remember that political conflicts must be resolved in the framework of politics and will not be resolved in their judicialization. In my intervention in the failed investment debate, I was talking about the impossibility of making the country move forward if we are not able to overcome the logic of two half-fronts, to overcome a bloc policy. We can't let that be a bloc-fronted policy. And I'll also tell them that it doesn't seem to us that the best way to get through the blocks is to create a front, and less so than the Speaker of Parliament, who has the obligation to try to represent the joint of the chamber and all its members. I am making a parenthesis: we do not believe that the systemic attitude of the President of the Parliament is sectarian or partial; we may criticize some actions, but we do not see anyone asking him to resign. On the 22nd I told them that the strength we need to remove the obstacles that limit our potential is a great deal of Catalonia endins, which is not there. We need, and I say again, cross-border country agreements. In the past session I developed our approach on three axes: respect the law, primacy of politics and search for the widest possible agreements. Without respect for the law, there is no democracy. Without democracy, they can't do politics. And the right policy to avoid the country's fracture in two halves requires broad agreements. It is obvious that major agreements are needed. How, if not, do we want to overcome the very serious political, institutional, economic and social crisis that we have between us? They asked me the other day about a concentration government. And I say to them: "Yes, it would be good. Yeah, if you could. What is it that we don't remember the government of unity presided over by Josep Tarradellas? Nor could we say that we were the first, the only... that government had political advisers representing all the parties. And to that government the parties send their best representatives. Sometimes, it is true, a government of unity is not possible; but, in any case, great agreements are being reached. Remember the Moncloa pacts, too. Who doubts that these pacts promoted the democratization of Spain, the overcoming of the economic and social crisis, guaranteed political stability, the modernization of the country and, finally, finally, the income to the so-called "European Economic Community"? Countries that face difficult crises are better and faster as the more agreed and the wider sun shines. I told them I disbanded them, and I repeated it today: we are willing to leave the block shelter to advance to the open camp of the dialect. And our disposition is sincere and permanent, not necessarily in a government, even though we follow the opposition, the same disposition in any case. Now, unhooking this isn't up to us, not down to us, not down to us. To begin with, if there is no government today, it is because the majority of the independentist has not agreed to a viable candidate. And I know that you will say to me and you can say to me: 'Listen to me, they have not left us. But, listen, today's table has been supported by Carles Puigdemont's voting delegation, and it's the same table he didn't attend today. If we are not covered, why do I think it is not possible, to secure that delegation, how can we secure the presidency? And I remind them that at this table there is a majority that is what it is. Now, they have time, it's true; they have time to come to terms. But I remember them, while 155 is still in force. And I also remind you: this is an article that was applied because someone turned the will and decision of President Carles Puigdemont to call elections. And don't forget it, because things don't fall from the sky. And it is true, while there is no agreement, as at least, between you, this article will remain in force. Now, beyond that, and today we have seen other examples, the two most important groups in the chamber are not talking between them – I don't doubt the word of Mrs. Arrimadas. Don't you want us to start talking to each other? If they want, for what it's small, let's start, and then go to what it's big. But if this respect for different decisions is not produced and this will of dialogue with everyone, without exclusions, and above all, we will not get out of it. I'll tell them too: we'll have to assign more responsibilities to who has the greatest representation. We have 17 Members, not to say that we would like to have much more. Now, there's who at 36, there's who at 34, there's who at 32... I ask them to make this effort. I don't need to be told today, I don't need to be staged, but I need to be there. Not for us, but for the country, for the citizenship we represent. And before they talk, they probably have to accept common rules, otherwise the dialog is impossible. What are they? Home, the first: respect the legality and democratic institutions built for the law and emanating from the popular will, the first, this Parliament. And here we have to say that it is true that someone can pose a disjunctive, or one of two: either disobedience or legality, insurrection or institutions, reel sizes or Parliament, paints or speeches, stones or negotiations. I ask you not to allow anger, indignation or a sense of impotence to dictate our collective policy. Neither anger nor indignation nor impotence serve us today to advance. Let us do all we can to listen to the most commands of the Mosso d'Esquadra: there is the risk of a violent turn and cut it dry to return to politics with freedom, democracy and respect for all ideas, before it is too late. We also have a lot of healing with the words and more still, more healing, with the big words. A front for democracy cannot be used as a front against the Constitution and the Statute. A front for democracy cannot be synonymous with contempt of the judiciary. A front for democracy cannot be used to say that it is about to repeat the surrender of President Companies for the Gestapo. A front for democracy cannot imply the claim that the Parliament of Catalonia dictates to a judge who is willing to take and who is not; this goes against the separation of powers. I must say to you: I remember the recent statement of the Prime Minister of Scotland, radically against extradition proceedings, of which he was asked, which affects Clara Ponsatí, but he said: "But, listen to me, this must be decided by the courts. Exactly what we have to say: that is what the courts must decide. A front for democracy cannot engage those who threaten their judges and families. We've already shared enough, we've faced enough, we've already eroded enough institutions, we've already spooked many people, we've had bad enough investments and we've gone out of business, we've already lost more opportunities and more energy. And the best way we have all the pleas to solve this problem is to get back to politics right away, the best way is to show that we are capable of dialogue and agreement, that we respect legality and that we reject all forms of violence. We do it for those who are here, for the citizens we serve, and also for those who today feel victims of great injustice and their families. The best way to help them is to do things right, not ripping cards, looking for agreements, respecting the law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.95.0	Mr. Iceta, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.96.0	...condemning rapes and rapes– thank you, Mr. President–, making government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Now it's the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can, of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.98.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., mirin, members of the Socialist Group, we rejoice that it is moguin, we rejoice that they come from the photos with Albiol or with the ministers of the People's Party, the framework of 155 or the pacts with those that were born to carry precisely things that you were very active to build in our country, as linguistic immersion, as the universality of rights or as feminist struggles for equality. We rejoice that it is moguinous and that this allows us to look forward and not to look back. We're not in the country because we're doing toilets. Of course, the balance of what happened, the balance of why it happened..., so as not to fall back into the same mistakes, but above all what we need is solutions. We are on time accelerated, on hard times, and if something comes first at these times it is listening without filters and talking constructively with those who make proposals to the table. That is why we welcome the moves of the Socialist Party, the proposals that are being put forward in this House by the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, and the speech that Mr Miquel Iceta has been making today as well as the last few days. They know that our group is listening to them, without filters, carefully, and that today we will support all the points of their resolution proposal. We have made a small effort to improve, to refine the wording of one of the points, which has been accepted and which makes it even easier for us to support all the points of his motion for a resolution. Dialeg, reconciliation, pact, democratic principles, politics and non-judiciality, rebuilding broad consensus, building future and empathy with the feelings of Catalonia that felt violated by unilaterality, but also with Catalonia that felt undermined and ignored by the State in its political demands for too long. These are the elements that appear in the proposal of the Socialist Group and Unites for Progress. They are obviously values, proposals, axes that we fully share. If every time we're more of those principles, values, axes, proposals, I want to think there's hope for the country, I want to think there's hope for getting out of sugar. Why land it, land these values, these principles, these axes to concrete proposals; why reach agreements after all that has happened, and to make it quick, it will not be easy. That is why we need to be very clear, very firm, these principles, values, objectives, in order to make real concrete proposals. Mr. Iceta made this week a concrete proposal: government of concentration; an exceptional fate, I say, for an exceptional moment. In Xavier Domènech he did not make one this morning: progressive government of independents with broad and cross-section support in this chamber, government to manage social priorities and to recover the democratic normality of the country. I believe, frankly, that both are proposals for exit, that they have clearly these values, principles, objectives to which I referred a moment ago. From Catalonia to Comú We can believe that ours – and I must say this – is a more realistic proposal. We do not see easy going from the hands of Ciutadans or the People's Party to try to rebuild there..., the better of that popular Catalanism, those consensuses of popular Catalanism, to guarantee social rights or to increase self-government. But the most important thing is that, in the end, we are all going to bring solutions: policies to rebuild and rebuild consensus, to build a future; this is important. Because what we need is to overcome blocks, even from those that have been placed in a block. What we need is to recover the self-government, and what we need is to get out of the hands of 155, in which we already carry five months, as Xavier Domènech recalled in his intervention. We have real government, effective government, which negotiates the return to democratic normality for our country. But above all we have a government that manages the social emergence that is still living in Catalonia. We have a government that solves the hard dysfunctions that are there in the application of guaranteed citizenship income, and now. We need a government that guarantees sufficient resources for the public school for the coming course, and that means also for public schools, that is to say for the assemblies that have been paying for these public schools, that is to say, for food schools for all the children I need. We need a government that attacks the hard problems that citizens currently face in housing, with the disorbited prices of the loguer, with the poor energy. We have a government that lowers university fees for the coming course. We have a government that resolves the fact that we are at the top of the rest of the autonomous communities of the State in the services we give to dependence; we are at the top of the waiting lists, we are the most waiting list we have for the dependency services. We have a government that recovers public water management. That's a lot more for us. And that's what we can't lose sight of at the time of putting solutions, concrete proposals to get out of sugar, to get over the blocks, to get back the self-government, to get out of the hands of 155. And no, before the blockade in which the majority of us remained independent for three months in this Parliament, the attitude cannot be immobilised. It is not ours, it is not ours, it is not ours, it is not ours, it is not ours, it is not ours, it is not ours, it is not ours. So, I repeat, we will support them. And I want to make one last comment. Mirin, it seems good to us, always seems good that the socialist speech to Catalonia the leader of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. I honestly tell them it's good; it's good for the country's left and it's good when this happens, and I'm back to the story. There probably wouldn't have been a government of the left if the PSC hadn't been in charge of the Socialists' position in Catalonia at the time. Finally, I will say more: it is also good for the PSOE, that the position of the Socialists in Catalonia is the leader of the Party of Socialists in Catalonia. And it's good that you do it, and it's good that you do it by listening to the tradition of popular Catalanism, which is also part of the Socialist Party in Catalonia, and it's good that you do it by listening to the socialist mayors and mayors who run from the territory know how the country breathes and what is happening to the country at these times. Today we are at this point, in a clear position of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, and we congratulate ourselves on it. We need to regain consensus from those who also fought at very complicated times for this country because Catalonia was a people's sun. We have the sum, we have the dialect, we have the reconciliation, we have the pact and we never lose sight of the fact that the priority of all this is to improve people's living conditions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.99.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.100.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to everyone. Well, today the PSC brings us a proposal that talks about dialogue, coexistence and respect for the law. And I don't know about you, but I think I need to discuss this and vote for it in an autonomous parliament, in full 21st century and after decades of self-government in Catalonia, I find it all the less normal. Because it is not normal for us to debate the compliment of the law, it is not normal for us to debate to ensure coexistence between Catalans, it is not normal for us to debate respect for constitutional values that are basic. Maybe in the world backwards, these with the ones. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Those who play independence games, that's normal; but real life isn't. Neither to real life, nor to the rest of the autonomous communities, nor to the rest of European democracies, this is not normal. Because everything that's been going on in Catalonia for a long time and a long time is not normal. Or does it seem normal to you that we should vote if we respect the principles that inspired our common European project? What do we vote for if we complete the laws? Does it really look normal to you? You, the independence parties, who have filled their mouths said that an international recognition would come to this invention of process... but what recognition? What recognizance, if we are to be here debating whether parliamentary groups intend to complete the law or not? Who did they think would support this? , when they have been told by active and passive people in Europe since they need to respect the law in force. And when we talk about current legality, obviously we also talk about Spanish legality, the one that you respect very little, that even the same president of the European Parliament has had to explain to you. I read what Tajani literally said: "The treaties of the European Union and the Spanish Constitution are a legal and democratic thing that we all have a duty to respect. What part of this didn't they hear? Which part of you still don't understand, right? How far has all the consensus gone to Catalonia, all that is basic in a democracy, all that involved in democracy, which even makes it necessary for us to come here and vote for this? You imagine someone coming here today and seeing what we're talking about, what we're debating here in this Parliament, what would you think? I think I'd think something really big happened here in Catalonia. And yes, I'd be right, because it's very big what independence parties have done to Catalonia. You've done a lot of damage to Catalonia. Just reading the statement of reason, this, of this proposal that we are debating today, should be a disgrace to you. And they ask the Socialist Party that when I have the tempt to buy the nationalist theses, as fan in some points of this proposal [[remorse of the voice]] , or when they want to impose theses, when they want to impose red lines, as for example they did to us in the campaign, or when they proposed a government of concentration with the lords who brought us here, with Mr Puigdemont and with the lords of Esquerra, as did Mr Iceta the other day, to recover this motion for a resolution and return to read his own statement of motion. I'm going back to reading it and wondering who brought us here, wondering if all this was necessary: the lies, the assessment, the disrespects, the September 6th and 7th plenary sessions, the runaways, the breakdown of society and coexistence, wondering if that was necessary. I'm going back to reading this proposal and thinking why we're here discussing such basics. And, Mrs. Granados, stop teaching us lessons. You ask us what we have achieved for the Catalans. Well, look, I'll explain. For example, one more week of paternity leave, which also – also – benefits Catalan parents. For example, aid for children's school from zero to three, which also – also – benefits Catalan families. Or a tax reduction for the working middle class, the milleurists, who here in Catalonia have many and above asphyxiated to taxes. What has the Socialist Party done? What has the "no " party done? I'm telling you, nothing. They have achieved absolutely nothing. So stop giving us lessons and really stop buying the nationalist theses. [[Greetings.]] It's very hard, very hard, what the lords of the process have done with Catalonia. You have gone against the law; you have missed all the judicial resolutions; you have gone over Parliament's and the same Council of Statutory Guarantees; you have tried to liquidate the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy; you have taken over a social majority that you do not have, that you do not have, that you do not have; you have denied and insulted the majority of Catalans, that you do not think like you, that you continue to speak in the name of all Catalonia and that you are not half, in fact. And worst of all, you know what it is? That they've done it with lies and they know they're lying. A shame. And, in case we haven't had enough yet, they continue to degrade the Catalan institutions and, therefore, they continue to end up with the international prestige of Catalonia. To the point, I insist, that we must come here to discuss basics, that we have told everyone, already, that it is impossible to talk about democracy if the policies do not respect the law. Who else needs to be told? Because the citizens have also told them in the ballot box, which you have lost as a percentage of votes and as a result of the vote. I have heard here before, in this rostrum, say that we are going to say that we have won the elections. No, no, I'm sorry; it's that Ciutadans won the elections in Catalonia and we have more escons than Esquerra has ever had in this Parliament. Let them know. We have an economic crisis without precedent, because you have done a lot of damage to Catalonia: companies that leave, opportunities that are lost, down consumption, down tourism. Don't you see that this political uncertainty they're causing us is bad? We have a parliament blocked since July. Why? Because Mr. Puigdemont did not want opposition groups to control the government, because he wanted to do and defuse, in order to divert money from Social Affairs into illegal acts, to approve a law that intended to carry the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, and where Mr. Puigdemont ordered the judgments. And they're still laying their hands on when justice works. And there's who buys it, huh? , this mantra of judicialization of politics. That same proposal does. But no one is wrong: those who judicialize politics are those who skip the laws, those who judicialize politics are those who at some point thought that with the Member's notebook there was another gift card, those who confused the Parliament, which is of all people, with its domains. And they're barely still the same. They've taken us all the way here and they don't want to pick us up. I just need to see why this chamber works: to try to invest a candidate who has run away from justice; to try to invest a candidate who has been accused of sedition and rebellion, and to try to invest a candidate who has been accused of embezzlement of all Catalans. To people who have been waiting more than a year, for example, for surgery, what do we tell them? To families who have been waiting for more than four years to access a place of residence, what do we give them? To people who don't arrive at the end of the month and who charge taxes, what do we give them? Why are they all here, huh? The independenceists and the non-independenceists, but you haven't worked for anyone in a long time, because you only work for yourself. And they've already fallen for it, and they won't be able to pretend for longer. It's been a long time. Come on, you historians for no king. Do you know when the real historic day will come? When you stop this Parliament to work, to work for all Catalans. This will indeed be a historic day of truth. They have the opportunity to propose a viable candidate and form a government, but they consider themselves more likely to continue with this farce and continue with the process; they consider themselves more likely to follow the orders given by Puigdemont against the orders given by the common sense. Look, there's a proverb that says that with a lie you can go all the way, but no hope of coming back. And that's what's happened to you, you've been lying so much, so much... there's not enough to degrade Catalan institutions. And, above all, there's enough to break the Catalan society. Today the PSC, with this proposal, talks about it, but many years ago Ciutadans gave it to us, we warn it: that nationalism divides, that nationalism confronts. And unfortunately we were right. But it's just that they keep going. You come here, as you did the other day, demanding dialogue, and then you encourage people to go out on the street to increase this confrontation. You have created a conflict between Catalans that did not exist. And that's enough. And we wouldn't be able to do that if we weren't able to put this evil of the process back together, if we weren't able to rebuild the bridges that nationalism has broken, if we weren't able to put in value what unites us. And from the solution we can't exclorate anyone– anyone. But, now, this solution, obviously, must respect the rules of the game. And that's why we today, despite the fact that many of our papers have not been accepted, will vote that yes at all those points that unite us, at all those points that we can agree on, because there are many of them. And, really, I'm telling you, I'm already leaving the historical days and I'm starting to work for all the Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.101.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party. It's Mr. Alejandro Fernández's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.102.0	Mr. Miquel Iceta, I don't know if you know Enrique Pastor, Sports and Free Time Councillor of the upcoming series. I don't know if you know him. He's an intriguing character. In fact, he's the only good person in the series and, as it usually happens in this kind of thing, the rest of the characters do all kinds of bitches to him. And, however difficult it may be to put things to him, however cruel they may be to him, at the worst moment, he, at the height of the calvary, cries out his cry of war: "Dialogue, dialogue. It reminds me a lot of you. Dialogue is very important, indeed, very important. The pact is very important. I, beyond the topic and the stigma, like to remember that since 1983 the People's Party of Catalonia, our party, has signed more than two hundred municipal agreements throughout Catalonia – which is said soon, eh? – more than two hundred. It is a party, therefore, that has demonstrated a capacity to compromise. We have done so with virtually all political formations. I think that except with the CUP – we haven't had that lewd experience, even though we share the Joint Group – we have done it with everyone, even with Initiative per Catalunya, in Pallaresos and in the Consell Comarcal del Tarragonès, I remember, in 2003, and I think there are three or four more. In fact, Mr. Iceta, we have an agreement with you in Tarragona, which is the only one who does not claim too much, although it is, by the way, the best you have, because elsewhere you already know that they have been cast out as if they were pariahs. In Tarragona, on the other hand, it has loyalty, stability, centrality, moderation and a people's agreement that shakes hands and that fulfills the promised. Therefore, of course, and it goes in our DNA, beyond the topic and stigma, pact and dialogue – I share it with you –, defend positions with passion, with vehemence, if necessary, but then, when that time comes, sit down and talk to us. What is happening, Mr.Iceta, is that dialogue has some limits. Dialogue is not unlimited by nature. It must be developed at very specific coordinates. Otherwise, it loses its meaning, and we have historical examples of it. For some reason I can't understand in an intelligent and brilliant person like you, in that understandable will of empathy, you go from slowing down these things. He passed by asking for pardons from people who have not been condemned; he has passed with his proposal for a concentration government – we believe that it is necessary to agree on some elements of coexistence among all, and I speak among all, eh? , but the thing about the concentration government in the current circumstances for me is to stop – and it happens in this motion for a resolution with points d and f, when it accepts the concepts of judicialization and arbitrariness. We can't accept that. There is no judicialization. The intervention of justice comes from justice. It's not optional. It's not optional for politicians. There is no arbitrariness in justice. You cannot include those terms in your motion for a resolution. We can't accept that perverse idea. Look, here you can solve things politically by showing that justice doesn't exist, by cutting off justice from one side. Because that, in short, is one of the worst axioms of nationalism, namely: that they, their leaders, as Messianic interpreters of the popular will, are not subject to any control, have unlimited power, are not subject to the action of justice. As President Torrent said the other day, Puigdemont can do whatever he wants, he is untouchable. We can't accept that idea, Mr. Iceta. Therefore, I know that you do not think so, but do not fall into the semantic traps of nationalism. I have been doing this for many years, and I take and share your efforts of dialogue and goodwill, and I have given you examples, at the beginning of my speech, that this will, in addition, we have demonstrated it with deeds also with your party. But don't fall into the semantic traps of nationalism. Do We Do Politics? Yeah. Shall we have a dialogue? Of course you do, too. Do we reach agreements? I hope so; let's see if it's possible. But under no circumstances will such agreements, however relevant, ever replace the action of justice. And we cannot accept that there is an agreement and that justice continues to intervene, that that is judicialization. We cannot intellectually accept that concept, and we will therefore vote against points d and f. Think that we cannot also draw from the equation to justice, among other things because justice is the only guarantee that we have precisely that we can develop that dialogue to which you refer and that it defends with so much passion. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.103.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. It's the turn, now, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mrs. Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.104.0	Thank you, President. MP companies, I'm also opening up today, and I can't start without saying that it's an honor to speak for the first time from here, from Parliament's rostrum, that it's a representation and a view of the people of Catalonia, an honor and a responsibility that we should all always have. Mr. Iceta, you, disbanded, more than not today, gave us a speech about the need to make an effort of empathy and understanding, and recognized that we have the country with the engulfed color. Today we still have much more encircled, the color, at least much of the country, when we have the President of the Generality in a prison in Germany. Today we are being presented with a motion for a resolution that talks about restoring consensus, dialogue, negotiation, pacts and phone book rights. These are their words. If they were honest, and we want it to be that way, if those words are to be translated into fact, they are the first ones to celebrate it. It can be a point of finding between its political strength with our parliamentary group, it can be an adventure, smaller or smaller, smaller or smaller, that would surely show that they have awareness of what reality is. The problem, I'm afraid – and I want to be wrong – is that your words will surely be nothing more than a sidekick, that there is no real will to change the political stance that they have had at last, that politics, and you know it more than anyone, is more than words, politics is compromised. You, in this motion for a resolution, who make a report of the past years and above all of the past months, explain it as if they were simple narrators of what is going on. It seems that they are explaining it in third person, and, from this third person position, they shared blame, almost all of them to the independence parties and some stuff to the Spanish government, leugera, surely because the PSOE does not bother. But reality is another. The reality is that you're responsible for what happened. You're not spectators. You're not victims. With your unconditional support for the Rajoy Government, you are complicit in the police violence on October 1st, you are perpetrators of the illegitimate cessation of the Government of the Generality, when you vote enthusiastically in favour of Article 155, and which also ends up leading to the arrest and exile of our companies, but they are also their companies. You just made reference to the application of Article 155 by seeing that you have nothing to do with it, and you explain it as if 155 is the result of someone twisting the president's will, someone twisting it and nothing else happened, right? There's nothing more going on. The president didn't explain it. You weren't talking to them those days, and you weren't trying, or at least making him see, to intercede. You didn't go to the president's office on October 26th and said, "Can't I do anything? It's that I was before, when you arrived, so much so that they explain other things later. [[Greetings.]] You are co-responsible that there will still be no government in Catalonia when they continue to collect the sabotage that comes to us from Madrid and continue to swallow it. They worked together to call an election, thinking that this would defeat independence, and that then, magically, a problem would be solved. On the other hand, if you believe, as you say to the motion for a resolution, and we would agree, that political conflicts are resolved by political action and not by legalizing politics, the question is, what have they been doing all this time? What have they been doing? Because it seems to us – and we may be wrong – that they have been doing the opposite, when they systematically applaud the disastrous management of the conflict between Catalonia and Spain that the Spanish Government is bringing to an end, a Spanish government that renounces to make politics in Catalonia, that bets for a strategy of scaring the independence movement, with a « accompanied by their acritic silence and some selfies. You have subscribed to this strategy, which is anti-policy. But they can do a lot better. Maybe – maybe – they didn't expect things to come up here – maybe that's it – and that's not the way, that the way you've accompanied is not what you wanted it to be. Listen to me, if that's the case, it's legal for them to want to talk about reconciliation, it's legal for them to say it's time for politics, but before they even recognize it and ask for forgiveness. They cannot be raised as advocates of consensus and reconciliation as if they were spectators of what has happened. I'm sorry, because if you had the ability to dialogue and approach the repte in a political way, we wouldn't be where we are. The PSC cannot be validating the lack of separation of powers; it cannot be defending a Minister of Justice who anticipates judicial decisions and a vice-president who pressures members of the Constitutional Court. It may not be easy to make changes, but it's basic if its layout is honest and they want to change course. I mean, you disbanded anything that you could do, and you know it perfectly well, a first gesture in that sense, and they didn't want to do it. Disappointed he could rise from his seat, he could turn, clap and look at the face and eyes of the families of political prisoners. [[Greetings.]] They've had a lot of minutes to do it, a lot of them! They were wrong. And today they had the chance to do it again, because there were fifteen, when we started the plenary this morning. In this way it would be a gesture, more than words, to begin this reconciliation. Some expected it – some expected it. A non-political gesture, a gesture of humanity. Therefore, I ask him: Miquel, how many years have you known in Jordi Turull? How many? How many years have you worked with Josep Rull? How many times have you negotiated things with Marta? How many? They're not here today! What do you think you're doing? What do you think you're doing? [[Greetings.]] In the text you tell us that independence divides, and the inference that, as it divides, is painful, needs to be lacking. That's not the path. This is a dangerous path. The way is to reaffirm that democracy must allow us to live in diversity of ideas, not promote a single thought. And I have to get, to do it, that you have to dial it. And as far as we've tried. The problem is that until today we haven't found anyone in the other band. What have we found? Repression, chastity, revenge. I go back to asking: what will they do to promote the dialog? How did they contribute? What about PSOE as the main opposition party in the state? What did he do? Res; collaborate with the Spanish Government. The delivery to the antidialeg. In the same way, they talk about reconciliation, integration. Is that 155? Is that suspending Catalan institutions? Is that engaging the government and provoking exile? To pursue masters, mechanics, pallassos, journalists, to violate the rights of the people, to close the premise of the Generality in September in order to prevent social policies and progress, is that inclusive? So let's ask them again: Is the dialogue possible with the PSC? I'm not laying out a dialog for you to join our political project of the republic, which we already know is not, and it's only right that it's not. But can we talk about democracy, can we talk about dignity, right, the judicial persecution of political ideas, the recognition and acceptance of the rights and the will of Catalans? Since we have already said that it is not a question of words, but of facts, I propose five initial points, but they are proposed to allow us to see if their words remain here or we can go further. U: add 'its counter-repression table that promoted President Torrent, a table that goes from democracy and defense of fundamental rights. Two: I recognize that there have been political prisoners in the Spanish State and that Spanish justice is acting in an unacceptable way. Three: Humanize the suffering of reprisals and their families. Four: stop participating in demonstrations where phexist expressions are produced, which are unacceptable in a democracy. [[Greetings.]] And five: no longer complicit in the alteration of major parliaments that is due to the Spanish state's violations. If you don't want to start with the five at a time, I don't want one, one of simple: go to prison; go to Soto, go to Extremera, go to Alcalá Meco; visit his companions. And if you want, I'll go with you. I make her this offer, which is honest. [[Greetings.]] We'll have our hands full all the time, because it's our way of being and it's where we recognize each other, but it doesn't feel if they don't recognize it and we don't speak honestly. If they decide to join the front of democracy, they will be very welcome, no grudges. If they decide to join the front of politics, they will be very welcome. I'm listening to what they're also telling a lot of people from their party – mayors, activists – we'll be waiting for them. In the meantime, for the time being, we shall vote against this motion for a resolution. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.105.0	Thank you... thank you, Mrs. Artadi. Now it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the turn of Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.106.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with a precision. Ma'am, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Mrs. Lorena Roldán – here, I'm sorry – I looked at'sels libres d'histoire, eh? ; Republican Left held a majority..., won fifty-six deputies in 1932 in this chamber, in these Catalan elections. [[Greetings.]] Do you know what's going on? , that the story sees from lluny. And this given sometimes oblivion many of you. Mr. Iceta, I have read and reread with attention your motion for a resolution, I have listened carefully to your words and now I will try to explain to you why we will not support it, because, therefore, we will vote against it. Let's talk, first of all, about one more thing. I couldn't believe it. I have not been able to feel identified or questioned by his words, by his reflections on the statement of reasons, or by his proposals in the text of the..., more resolute. The words in sound are devoid of content, in sound empty. Maybe I'm wrong, huh? We'll have time to check it out, I hope, in the months... in the weeks and months to come. But now, as now, it gives the impression that you don't even believe it, huh? That's why they have to say it, because it's part of their necessary survival, but that's all it takes. We live in a dramatic situation and you are located beyond good and evil and give us advice. But the cold that translates his text is well-explained, huh? For what they say and much more for what they don't say, for what they shut up, huh? Starting with the total absence of empathy with the five deputies who were sitting here a week ago... less than a week ago, that you spent listening carefully and that they were listening attentively to you and they can't today. And this... this given, that there is, in his position, in his proposal, it is very difficult that I allow to give the least legitimacy in the political sense of substance to his proposal. I can hear it. You're avoiding, now as now, as organizing into a certain..., as you say? , in certain political contexts– someone has said, including, that they are progressing adequately towards total irrelevance – but..., and therefore it is logical to look for lives and holes..., mechanisms to get out of the hole in which they are found or in which they are found, adopting this paper of consent seekers, defenders of dialogue and reconciliation. That is, as I have just said, always from the condition of observers, critical observers, intelligent, supposedly neutral and naturally without any responsibility, eh? You, no responsibility; you have nothing to do with everything that's going on in this country, it doesn't go with you. So it's going, Mr. Iceta, it's going, and a lot, it's going, with all of you, huh? [[Greetings.]] We are all clear, now as we are, who they represent, who they are interested in and what they defend, starting with what they vote for, here and there. I know... Article 155 is our fault, too; that's just missing, it's our fault, too. It derives from our reckless fear: the reckless fear of defending the right to decide, the reckless fear of defending the political contract that we had with our voters, with the majority democratic citizens of Catalonia. This is the recklessness that makes you find it justified that 155 should be served. And it was not only justified that the vote and the harvest, with specific serious harm to the interests of the citizens that you also represent legitimately. And that's the situation today. They talk, in their resolution, too, about traumatic events, huh? And Mrs. Granados tells us: "We warned them a while ago, in her last intervention," we warned them of the consequences. It's not the first time I've felt them; they've said it many times. Consequences? What are storms? Are these natural catastrophes coming? What's going on? Despite everything and despite, in fact, the circumstances in which we find ourselves? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, Mr. Iceta, they are not inevitable consequences; they are conscious political decisions, which would be in the general interest of the citizens of this country. [[applause]] , contract to the democratic majority expressing a certain position. Therefore, with this situation, and after all that has happened in the last week, this motion for a resolution recognizes 'that you have lost a part of your possible interest as well as gestures, as continued from the words that you yourself, Mr. Iceta, made during the last session, huh? And that we all recognize and we've written with a lot of interest. It is clear that we agree with the magic words in which you set yourself: dialog, consensus, reconciliation. Who could be against it? Now, let's see how you say, before you recommend dialog and reconciliation think about who addresses these words and think about what should happen before we can do the least. Put down the counter for the crackdown. Posin, you, all of you, those who represent, those who voted in favor of 155, the counter to zero of the repression, huh? ; act to free all political prisoners. Acting politically. Yes, it can demand freedom. Yes, you can address a motion for a resolution to the Congress of Deputies or anywhere near here because the prosecution raises and cancels all actions and charges. It's clear it's pot, huh? If they don't, it's because they don't want it because they can't. So much for it, huh? His position is not neutral or innocent; now as it is, it is partial and it is unfair. They're as if they've just come from another planet – Mrs. Artadi said it –, they're more of a chronicle than they define a compromise position with what you've been through, and they're also like actors who are. See, let me go over a little point to point what they say in their resolution. « Consensus to escape society deeply divided, they say. Deeply divided? What divides is not being able to debate calmly, in a democratic framework accepted, over which we have all defended, a large majority of this citizenship, around the right to decide on our own future. That's what division produces. Work so we can have a quiet debate. Would we not be able in this country to have a peaceful, orderly, pro- and cons-oriented debate, for and against any positions, including those of independence, sovereignty or the republic, if we have the dialog mark that is systematically denied? It's this, this is the only division that today is produced in our society, that of those who forbid, repress, accuse, undertake, exile. It is clear that this divides, it is clear that this produces..., this, in practice accounts, from years ago, from at least eight years ago, the dialog that has actually led us to a climate of respect, to debate and to deepening about the best future for our country, and to the democratic determination that the citizens of Catalonia have made and that all of us have respected. So I am not talking about "deeply divided; the division is what has occurred as a result of the actions of the State in direct and frontal attack on our legitimate aspirations. When they say: "Reconciliation..., national reconciliation, this – you will agree with me – sounds like a thing many years ago, eh? ; it sounds like the Franco dictatorship and it sounds like the language some people had to use to express some kind of democratic hope, in the fifties, to be more accurate, huh? But, in turn, it turns out that this applies to an institution in which, say, we are under an expression of institutional violence as we had never experienced it since the end of that Franco dictatorship. So, what do you say? I did not speak of reconciliation; I spoke of liberty, I spoke of righteousness. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] I'm talking about respect and then we'll hear each other. Or, in any case, I'm talking about all this where I'm supposed to be. The conjunction of this resolution, Mr. Iceta, is to be said, defended and proposed there, where they deny the dialect. Not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day, not tomorrow's day. The point f, the last one, which could raise some degree of agreement: "No judicialization. Of course, of course. But let's just tell them what's... what do you say? - I'm not telling you, now, am I? But I say it to the expression – there is a hint of cynicism implied in that expression. You're here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, to tell him you're sorry about the lawsuit? To this Parliament that is without the victims of this judicialization? Please, huh? , a little more respect for Mr. Junqueras, for Mr. Puigdemont, for Mr. Turull, for Mr. Rull, for Mr. Rovira, for Mr. Romeva, for Mr. Bassa, etc. [[Greetings.]] And when you say, to end – when you say, to end – you add this proposal of the People's Party on violence and attacks to your..., finally, you don't realize that you just denied the rest of the resolution proposal, huh? Because if you add this and it doesn't mention either the provocateurs and agents who act in these situations, nor the systemic violence that the same days, and every day, since the past, we are wandering in this country, then it is decanting partially with absolute clarity, it is abandoning this presumed land of equipping and equitability that they so much like to practice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.107.0	Mr. Maragall, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.108.0	Therefore – I finish, Mr President – we cannot accept that what you are proposing has a Catalan answer and solution, as it seems to be deduced from your proposal. Conflict is the relationship with, not the lack of dialog here. Here, the attitude and lack of dialog we have absolutely accredited them. I add to what Mrs Artadi has just said and I already wanted to say to her: « Add yourself to the table for the rights and freedoms of the initiative promoted by President Torrent. But seriously, sincerely, against repression, in defence of our rights, and then we will begin to pay attention to your proposals for dialogue and reconciliation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.109.0	Thank you, Mr. Maragall. Now, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, it's the turn of the Lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.110.0	Well, good morning. We cannot agree with the Socialist Party's proposal. The PSC's proposals are focused entirely on putting the responsibility for the current situation in the completely contractual direction. Of the six points that they pose to us, only one seems to aim timidly at the strong part, at the State, to which they are claimed not concrete questions such as the freedom of prisoners, or to put a stop to the criminalization of the parties of the referendum, today that we have news of a new attestation of the Civil Guard, no, it is simply claimed, in abstract, that it does not judicialize politics. It's not strange this shyness at the time to go to the state. When he proposed to make a gesture a little valiant in the campaign, Mr.Iceta, proposing the indulgence of political prisoners, he was disapproved by the PSOE. And further, appreciating the results of 21 December, the secretary of organization of the PSOE, Mr. José Luís Ábalos, rebutted the criticism of that idea of Mr.Iceta, said that it was an element that generated a certain distrust among non-independent voters, and I quote textually, "on the ability of the PSC to be clearly aligned in the position of belligerence that was being demanded at this time. « Beligerence. It used to be beautiful, according to the PSOE. And before that, neither you nor me. But now, in change, we are talking about reconciliation, after the fine – reconciliation, after the fine – and almost all the demands of reconciliation, five points, point to the responsibility of the parties of the referendum, equaling the will to vote, to decide the future political of the country, to the repression that the State is exercising considering it a crime of rebellion. Actually, in the direction of contract, totally contract. And they do so by referring to two of the favorite topics of the past months: social division and widely shared projects. On the social division, Mary has already pointed out which is the true social division: the one that crosses by poor question, by class question. And on this issue we continue to believe that the best to avoid social tension would have been a net campaign for the no – I said it the other day –, with arguments, with a reference, not a campaign of por, of voting is illegal, that criminalized the reference and flattened the path that Llarena is making. There is a whole series of people who have been humiliated in a different way: the people who would have voted that they did not, who wanted a quiet reference, who wanted to follow the Spanish State, who feel connected with the idea of Spain, who left them totally behind with arguments, and you are responsible for them. All these people who don't want independence, but they don't want to be enemies of anyone, with them committing to work because there's only one of us, all together, disagreeing every day, if you want. There's no one left in the republic. And on the widely-shared projects: this is not the problem, Mr.Iceta, the 2005 Statute had more parliamentary support, and the State, starting with the PSOE and the Alfons Guerra Ribot, rejected it equally. And after the reference? More ribot of the Constitutional Court. The main problem, therefore, is not the majority or consensus, but a state that uses all of its political, judicial and violent police resources to prevent its sovereignty being questioned. And about the respect for statutory and constitutional legality that he quotes in his motion for a resolution: they know perfectly well that worrying about the real problems of the people, of the people who suffer, is not compatible with respect for statutory and constitutional legality. How long do we have to explain to them quickly by means of four examples: Decree Law against energy poverty, annulled by the Constitutional Court; Law on housing protection and measures against energy poverty, suspended by the Constitutional Court; Law on effective equality between men and women, annulled by the Constitutional Court; Decree Law on bank taxes, suspended by the Constitutional Court; Law on climate change, suspended by the Constitutional Court. There you go. That's the only mark he's wearing so he can do politics. We cannot therefore consider an honest proposal which is based, because it does not point to the strong part, the part which underpins the monopoly of force and violence and because it sees a formation that ultimately would have to assume responsibilities in the situation of repression, because they supported the political unit with the PP and Ciutadans in the application of 155. 155 are not the pairs, Mr.Iceta; 155 are you. That selfie, Mr. Iceta – and I finish – is a message that covers the spaces...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.111.0	Mrs. Sànchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.112.0	...to the work of jutge Llarena, who covers the spatlls to repression. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.113.0	Then again, to indicate which items are accepted, and, in any case, as in... Yes, Mrs. Lorraine, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] No, anyway, then, Mrs. Lorena, huh? First, Mr. Iceta, and then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.114.0	Mr President, the friendly advice will have to cut me, because I would not like to leave the interventions unanswered, and with two minutes it is impossible, it will cut where it is and I will do the sequence. In any case, in the first place, I would like to thank all the groups for the interest that has aroused our motion for a resolution and that has served to give the exact measure of the abyss that separates us; an abyss that we want to create and you seem to me not to. [[Greetings.]] Mrs. Marta Ribas I'll just tell you one thing or two: only those who can photograph with everyone will be able to agree with everyone. And maybe another: don't worry about the PSC, I won't get the same as Albano Dante Fachín. To Mr. Fernández... to Mr. Fernández I would also say one thing. He says: "What does the judicial system mean? It's not a criticism of judgment. It's a criticism of the politicians who haven't done their job. What we're reporting is that you're only supposed to use justice to solve a problem. In any case, I would like to thank the People's Party for its proposal, which we have accepted, which would allow us to..., I see that no, but I would have allowed us all to agree to denounce the violence, whoever you are. And that's the tip. We, without this, cannot form a head of the front; a front that threatens us at the gatherings. Yesterday we had to hear ourselves say, at the meeting of Sant Sadurní d'Anoia, that thanks should be given that only stoned in the place. We, with these, are not in the lead. To tell Mrs. Roldán that you're right, too, it's strange to discuss the things we're discussing. But let's have a little criticism. You say, "Oh, it's the problem that brought us here. Allow me, Mrs. Roldán: the problem is who will get us out of here. And the question continues as it is. Deien... Mrs. Artadi, a lot of things. And I'll tell you, I won't do what you ask. I thank you for asking me. And I thank him that, for the first time, he has addressed our group, even though it is from the deep discrepancy he has expressed. I sincerely appreciate it. You said: "They had opportunities to make a humane gesture... Miri, gestures in parliaments are political gestures. We, the humane gesture party... today, a member of our group met with one of the companies. Now, we don't exhibit this as we deserve. And sometimes, feeling them – and if I put it right, I think we're doing and doing a lot more ourselves, defending what we're defending, trying to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.115.0	Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.116.0	...relieving the criminal charge of your and our companies, that what you do, carving reels or creating an impossible dial scene. [[Greetings.]] Tell her... and I've already warned you, President, that she's going to... well, I wouldn't want to say anything about Ernest Maragall's intervention, I think... Mrs. Artadi condensed it, perhaps, better. Miri, « empty words... « Empty words can be said of everyone, but let's get used to it – not everyone thinks the same. And this country is divided not from 155, it was already demonstrated the year 2012 and 2015 in some elections. I, therefore, count! And then they don't say things that aren't true. If there are people in prison, it's not for 155, it's for the Criminal Code, and it's not for the Constitution. And lastly, Mrs. Natalia Sànchez... You have every right not to consider our approach honest – we never do that type of appreciation – but indeed, between you and us there can be no agreement, and we all know that. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.117.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.118.0	I'm sorry... you'll excuse me. We don't admit the Ciutadans papers, we admit the transaction that the People's Party has offered us; and, in turn, not another one that we've tried to do, and it seems to me that all groups already have the text. And, I repeat, if we could all vote behind the points, it would be fine. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.119.0	Yes, Mr. Fernández?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.120.0	We wanted to ask for a separate vote on points d and f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.121.0	Therefore, points 2.d and 2.f. All right. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.122.0	To request a separate vote on items 1a and c, and 2.b and c and f. [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.123.0	Yes, for a moment, Mrs. Ribas. Rest... Mr. Carrizosa, you asked me to vote separately from point 1.a, 1.c; 2.b, 2.c..., and 2.f, but that had already been asked previously. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. Yes, ma'am Ribas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.124.0	For allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.125.0	Yeah, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.126.0	Mr. Iceta, surely only those who do politics not from the grudge will succeed in finding solutions at a political moment like the present. We don't do this. We'll vote for all your motion for a resolution, which we don't know... or at least you don't seem to respect ours. Construction, dialog, recovery, consensus... Empathize with everyone and play net and not with grudge. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.127.0	Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.128.0	Yeah. If you can read the last point, the deal we made with the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.129.0	The 2.g, for that matter. Yes, this point had not been asked to be voted separately. Anyway, I understand you're asking that it's votes separately, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Ernest Maragall and Mira ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Maragall?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.130.0	No, just to make it clear that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.131.0	You're 30 seconds old.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.132.0	Only to clarify that, obviously, I did not say, because I do not think, that those who are in prison are due to the effects of the application of Article 155. What I am saying is that Article 155 and the support given to it by the Socialist Party at the joint meeting of Spain and also in the case of the PSC forms part of the scenario of repressive, direct and intense action that has, among others, these yes, personal consequences, direct, the impresoniment of our representatives. And let me..., and to add that Mr. Iceta understands that our negative stance today is a stigma, it wants to be a stigma, and a recommendation to persist in the direction of dialogue and agreement, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.133.0	Time's up, Mr. Maragall. [[Widow's remorse. Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.134.0	Yes; for allusions, President. [[Pause.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.135.0	Say, say... yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.136.0	To the Lord Maragall... The truth is that I am not surprised, I am not surprised that, of all that I have said in my speech, to you the only thing that has bothered you is that I have reminded you that Esquerra has never – ever – in forty years of democracy, achieved a result like that achieved by Citizens. Really, that you have to go back to before democracy and dictatorship, please! [[Widow's remorse.]] And you have been speaking for forty years on behalf of the entire people of Catalonia! Not us. We, even though you do not, recognize that your voters are also the people of Catalonia like ours. Thank you. [[Greetings. Miquel Iceta and Llorens ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.137.0	Yes, Mr. Iceta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.138.0	Very briefly, and with a very, very, very friendly tone, huh? To Mrs. Marta Ribas, in favor of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.139.0	I think that's for allusions, huh? ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.140.0	...in favor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.141.0	...Mr. Iceta? [[Pause.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.142.0	For direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.143.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.144.0	And to Ernest Maragall tell him that the positive sentiment... well, the positive sentiments are usually in another way. Jo, maybe... when he was an education counselor, he learned another way to stimulate positive. But in any case, if what I wanted to say – which I think is what I wanted to say – is that today nothing ends, but that the future is about to be written and that we should try to write 'folds, that's what it will be. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.145.0	All right. Now, let's go to the vote. I would like to remind you that we will vote together on this motion for a resolution. Let's start with the vote on the 1st point of this proposal to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Someone says, "Let's call it a vote.]] I'm sure, I'm sure. [[Long break.]] All right, let's start the vote on point 1 of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point is rejected by 25 votes in favour, 68 against and 39 abstentions. Let's now vote on point 1.c of the resolution – 1.c. The vote begins. This point is rejected by 25 votes in favour, 107 against and no abstentions. We will now move to point 2.b– 2.b. The vote begins. This point is rejected by 25 votes in favour, 71 against and 36 abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. This point is rejected by 28 votes in favour, 68 against and 36 abstentions. And now we're going to vote point 2.d. The vote begins. This point is rejected by 62 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on point 2.f. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 107 against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote for point 2.g, which is what's been traded, and that they have all the groups. Before voting on it, however, it has been asked to read. I pray to Secretary Pérez that you make this reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.146.0	Thank you, Mr. President. "The Parliament of Catalonia condemns the vandal acts against its political parties, insults, threats, attacks or settlement against groups and individuals – among them, many elected – which are overwhelming in Catalonia. Thus it rejects the vandal or violent acts that have occurred in concentrations and demonstrations celebrated in the last months in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.147.0	All right. Start voting on this point. This point was rejected by 63 votes to 68, with no abstentions. And now, unless we have left some other point to vote separately, we would vote on the rest of the motion for a resolution. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Was the 1.b also to vote separately? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Is that what...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, the rest of the points is only 1.b. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So, let's vote on this last point... [[Funnel veils]] , all 1.b and 2.a, excuse me. But we'll vote... can you vote together? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right, then. Therefore, we vote on point 1.b and 2.a. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 64 votes to 68, with no abstentions. And, having voted these two points, there is no more chance of voting on this motion for a resolution. [[Proposal for a resolution on the defence of civil and political rights in the broad pluralistic majority]] [[250-00108/12]] We shall proceed to the next item on the agenda of the day, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the defence of civil and political rights from a broad plural majority. This proposal is presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom. You have two minutes, for your defense, Mrs. Elisenda Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.148.0	"The time is hard," said Lluís Companys, "a phrase that has resounded forcefully in the past few days. The hour is hard, and that's why we need to remind today of people being persecuted unjustly for their political activities. And that's why we want to show our support and demand freedom for the deputies, as well as for the former members of this chamber who have been unfairly hired, and also the freedom of Jordi Cuixart. The situation we are currently living in Catalonia has a very clear responsibility: the Government of the People's Party. It is the government of Mariano Rajoy who heads Catalonia with only four deputies in our Parliament. They are the smallest force in this Parliament, but they can do and do as they please, directing the political life of our country, and they will do so while we leave them and we do not give an answer. Mr. Rajoy's government has denied the dialect and the word to resolve debates that are political. And he followed a negationist strategy that led to all the court action, making the togues decide on politics. It is the government of Mr. Rajoy with his inestimable taronja cross of Ciutadans, those to whom the people are very concerned but then vote in favour of the labor reform that launches his people, that launches the people of his work every time..., faster, faster and cheaper. And it's the people... it's these people who care so much, that then, when there's a feminist vagueness, they say it's a pseudocommunist claim. So, it's a very strange way to defend people – it's a very strange way to defend people. But we're not only living a democratic involvement in Catalonia where the rights of the deputies and the deputies are denied, but it's at the edge of the Spanish state with the persecution of tweeters, singers, it's forbidden to read a book, or it's censorship of an art exhibition. Every day we are more people who believe that the People's Party government is a danger to democracy. And, as democrats, our main obligation right now should be to make the People's Party out of the Catalan institutions and Moncloa. Every day when I take us, I am terrified that the People's Party, the most corrupt party in Europe, which the report of the UDEF said that it worked as a criminal organization, as a mafia, governments the institution of my country, attacking my country daily, controls the Generality by doing and doing as it pleases. And so we are already carrying more than five months; in concrete terms, 152 days under the urps of Mrs. Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. We can't go on another day like this. Since the sovereignist there is no day that I have not taken me thinking that I can not spend another day that the People's Party continues to segregate the institutions of my country. If someone values our language, if someone values our culture, if someone values the public school, they cannot tolerate that not one more day the People's Party continues to govern our institutions with only four Members of Parliament in Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] But it's been ninety-seven days since the 21st of December elections and we don't have a government. We won't get things to change if we continue to find the same mistakes. It's about following the usual or opening us up. And those of us who have been in politics for a long time have decided that we have not come to do the usual. The best response to the current blockade is to work from this Parliament to constitute an effective government that puts Catalonia on the march; a government that looks forward, overcoming the erratic strategies of the past and putting people at the centre of all political action; that knows how to face the challenges that we have ahead. We inaugurate a new era in Catalonia, a new era that is also characteristic for nine ways of political iron. The country requires political courage, I said a few hours ago Xavier Domènech; the people, in front of the parties: to follow with strategies reduced to pacts between parties to know who encapsulates a government or to be two_months in closed gaps sharing with us because it does not suppose to advance Catalonia nor are they the best way to serve our country. A new era is to answer to our problems of a society that has changed. A new era is also a renewal of political leadership, because parties and institutions come together more to today's society and to which it will come. Some have not understood that, at the front, we have great challenges that require effort and will on the part of everyone – on the part of everyone. Building a new Catalonia is not done according to the designs of the usual, it is not done delivering xecs in white and adding to pacts sealed in closed patxos. I, at least, didn't pose in politics to continue handing over power to the old man. And some of us who have been engaged in institutional politics for a while have not taken the step to do things the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, some of us are tired of losing, we are tired that this country has always lost because of the erratic decisions of some leaders. The weakness of its full route cannot be the defeat of a whole country; sovereignism needs winning strategies that make Catalonia move forward. We cannot tolerate accepting with resignation that the future of Catalonia goes through more business, more PP to the generality, more judgment and more patience. It is time to make bold decisions, to be coughed up to seek a victory and that this victory is shared. We have to leave behind some old strategies that have done nothing more than take us to a dead end. We need to think about actions that lead us to win – to win – to recover the institutions of our country, to recover our institutions, but above all it is to bring our country and its people to the place they deserve. Can the conjunct of the sovereignists of this chamber compromise us that any step, from then on, will be to move forward? Can we compromise ourselves before the citizenry? Can we compromise ourselves in front of the people of Catalonia that the defeats have ended? Because the people of our country deserve to start winning. Let's stop making plans and full routes that make our country smaller, that make us lose potential in Catalonia, because it's just political projects that run vast and progressive majorities, as diverse as Catalonia is, that's like being stronger to make out the People's Party, that's like being stronger to start winning, to win for Catalonia. Today we are presenting a proposal that we believe will reverse the common sense of the people. We hope that this is the most voted proposal we have here today. I believe that all Members are aware that I have corrected up and down to make it possible for a lot of people to be happy with what we are presenting here today. And it's in our hands; it's in our hands to make the effort to find majorities that don't re-edit those of the past legislature and that wander, even more so, there. We've tried. We've done it. You'd have to ask yourself if they did, too. I started my intervention saying that the time is hard, citing Lluís Companies, but I think that many like me, certainly to the rest of the parties too, we have come to roam us; I am sure that many of us, many of us have taken the step to roam us for our country. So, I said companies, time is hard, but sooner than later I should also be glorious for Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.149.0	Thank you, Mrs. Alamany. Now it's the turn, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, of Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.150.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, also people who follow us from the public or through any of the media offered by Parliament, begin to make this recognition, which seems to me to implicitly ask Mrs Alamany, to try to agree elements of the text of the motion for a resolution presented to us. Actually, he's been there. We, like the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forwarding Units, presented him with a pair of papers in the first and the sixth points: in the first point, it was not possible to agree – this was quickly observed by the proposing group –; in the second point, let's say, we had some years and come, but ultimately without success. We will give support to the third, fourth and fifth points of its resolution, with which we agree; obviously, as always happens, the concrete drafting of each of these points may have made it a little different, but there is basically agreement and we will give support. We can't do the same with the first and sixth points, because at last we couldn't agree, even though we partially agree. And we can't do it either with the second point, for the reasons I exposed in this morning's intervention around the proposals I made together for Catalonia, the Republican Left and the CUP - the Constituent CUP. That said, I think it would be worth it, to these matters of debate that we are doing this morning, to see some things, from the point of view of our parliamentary group, because, obviously, the findings of the facts also have an inevitable point of subjectivity and, therefore, can always contrast them with different points of view. While we persist in an idea of the dialogue that either consists in the unconditional rendering of a political and social movement that has been for many years, in a consistent way, making a series of demands, or while from this political and social movement there is an idea of the dialogue that consists of an unconditional adherence to its positions and to its way of hearing what has passed the last few years, we will not advance, it will be absolutely impossible to get out of here. That is to say, if you want to ignore the existence of a 47-per-cent turnout, a 38-per-cent turnout, which has given support to independent political formations in a way that consists of the last elections, not just those behind, but the previous ones, or you want to ignore that there is a significant part of Catalonia's citizenship, in fact, more than those that have explicitly given support to independent candidates, which have certainly not done so, we will not get out of it. And I think it's good that he's good at supporting proposals... even though they can be a little naïve. Mirin, I already recognize him. I don't know if before the charge was to be naive or dishonest. The first one, I accept; the second one, no. Perhaps they are a little naïve, to recover a few dialical marks in which we do not claim unconditional adherence or unconditional yield, but we are able to speak; at least, our group president says, we start with the things in which it is easy to reach certain basic consensuss and then we move forward to the things that are more complex, more delicate or more divided. Why, look, our parliamentary group doesn't want at the moment to paint a square of a society, which would be non-existent, let's say, unconflicted, huh? There are issues – political, social, economic – that deeply divide societies and there are points of view, interests, values, world views that need to be addressed. An unconflicted society... I don't know about it, and if there isn't one, it could only be under a totalitarian rule. What we are saying is: the debate on the independence of Catalonia, which is a debate that can be held and which must be held, that obviously the political forces that defend it must be able to push, and even more so, the sayings, must be feasible, it is a debate that in the forms in which it has occurred and with the political decisions that have been taken, for some, for the Government of Spain, for the Spanish political formations, for the Catalan political formations and for the Government of Catalonia and for the Parliament of Catalonia, with the majority that it has encountered, has caused a deep division. Before they tried to make a reference to that half-forum that basically used independent formations when they said that, let's say, the law, the State was a wall that would jump and tell them that the problem is that the wall will divide us. And it is that the democratic consensus is something relatively low that requires that a majority of citizens and citizens very broadly recognize that their institutions are legitimate and representative. When a person decides to pull for the right and proclaim the independence of Catalonia without..., go, without attending to the mechanisms of constitutional or statutory reform and without a social majority at the end, which they have not accredited until now, then stop there being a part of Catalan citizenship that does not recognize the legitimacy and representativeness of these new institutions that you would like to be born. The same way that has happened: there has been a process of delegitimization of the Catalan and Spanish institutions that were and are in the Constitution and the Statute. So, we need to find a way to live together. It's, in the background, as simple and as complicated as what we're saying. Because we agree with a long tradition, let us say, of the political philosophy that goes from classical Greece, passing through Alexis de Tocqueville, to the present, in which a majority cannot do everything, that the democratic principle is essential and that in this democratic principle the majority principle plays a fundamental role, as is obvious, but also respect for the procedures, guarantees and standards that we have given to all, in the same way that it respects minorities. Deia Alexis de Tocqueville, in 1835, with a vehemence that I do not do, but said so, in the book Democracy in America, said: "I look as ungodly and detestable the maximum that, in the matter of government, the majority of a people has the right to do it all. And I can't do anything but match it, can I? The Socialists, who are a current of thought that we find our quarrels in liberal thinking, on the left of liberal thinking, can do nothing but coincide with the basic postulates of liberal democracy, even though we want it to go further. And, of course, a majority can't do it all; a majority in Parliament can't do it all. The principle of the protection of the citizenry before the arbitrary action of public powers is absolutely fundamental; it is a democratic conquest of submission of public powers to the law. And here what we lived on September 6th and 7th was an attempt to repeal the Constitution and the Statute, without a social majority at the end, without democratic legitimacy, by jumping any procedure of constitutional or statutory reform, by annihilating the rights of parliamentary minorities and ignoring the existence of a very significant part of the Catalan citizenry that did not want, from the point of view of the way, that proceeded. And now we're here. Now we're in the situation where we're in, where we wouldn't want to be. I think we're not. And we're all for the mistakes of everyone. And, every time we make a gesture to recognize the mistakes that are right, to extend our hands, what we get is – and it's hard for me to say this – an absolute minimum, as today we have got rid of the spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word in the previous point. And it seems to me that we should start rectifying this path. We have made mistakes, by action, by omission, by sense of doubt. Now, we're not carcellers, we're not complicit in repression, we're not anything that you tell us. We have a political position, which we have defended here, since the Faristol, and we have defended it with full respect for the opinions of all and every one of the Members who have expressed themselves at the length of these years in this matter, and in others, obviously, in this Parliament. Why, if not, this one, let's say, fallacy by association that sometimes it is we should spread generically, huh? I don't want to. Look, I don't want to do that exercise that is sometimes done in parliamentarianism to say: "Now I could accuse you of this, but I don't, because when I do it, you're already doing it; so I don't do it – I don't do it. But we do not make this fallacy by association, because, if not, we will not get out of it; because, if we consider ourselves as two mutually incompatible halves that we are unable or alone to interlocate, the blockade of the Catalan and Spanish political situation, because clearly Catalonia has an entity as to be able to block the conjunction of Spanish politics, it will produce and reproduce it during the next few years in an inevitable way. I, tell you what, I don't want to make judgments of intent, but it could be that a part of the independence movement held as a strategy that was going back to the point of sharpening contradictions, right? In other words, to strain the situation to the limit in order to break the seams, which is a virgin, let us say, of course, the problems of design and functioning of all democracy. It could be. Thinking so, maybe, that then they'll get the social majority they haven't gotten so far. I, allow me to say that I doubt very much, because I believe that the debate is permeated by many other considerations that make it very difficult for this to go this way. But in any case, if anyone thinks that in the political situation in which we may be winners and losers, they are wrong. In this situation where we are, winning is losers – winning is losers – because we are already losing everyone and, if we persist in error, we will still lose all the more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.151.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Now it's the turn of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The word "Mr. Fernando de Páramo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.152.0	Well, good morning, good afternoon. Thank you, President Torrent. The truth is that after hearing the intervention that occurred before Podemos, Catalonia in Comú, and after seeing also the content of this proposal, we can get a first headline today, and it has become clear that Podemos' opponent is Citizens. And the truth is, I'm surprised. I'm surprised because, look, you can give lessons to the party that won the election, of course you can give them, you'd miss more. And I'm sure we can take note of a lot of things that we can do better, of course. But one, when giving lessons to the party that has won the elections, has to do a bit of self-criticism, a bit, especially when it goes from thirteen to eleven, to eight, a bit of self-criticism. And that self-criticism not only does not do so, but also does not do so in the content of the proposal either. And now we're gonna get into that, but first a preview. There's good news for the trial today, not all of it is bad news. In the process today there is good news and is that you have a new partner, which is called Catalunya in Comú, or Podemos, which is the new partner of the process. Therefore, when you are unable to exercise your parliamentary majority you have, because the CUP does not listen to you, pick up the phone, call Mr Domènech, call the Lords of Podemos. [[Greetings.]] Because I am convinced that they will attend to and support them, as they are proving these days. So, not everything is bad news. There's good news: you've just had a new partner. And the truth is that by reading the motion for a resolution I find not a single point..., we have read it carefully. In fact, I even came to think that there was a missing sheet of the proposal, I say: "Maybe there is a missing sheet in the proposal. Because there is not, in all these points, in the six points of the proposal, there is neither a criticism of the process nor a criticism. Just – that's true, which I'll be reminded of later – in the explanatory statement they make a small mention. I even took the trouble to tell the words. Of six hundred words that he has his motion, twenty words dedicate them to speaking... I say that some guilt will have had all this from the process. Not for you. I already know that by weight it is difficult to measure the arguments, but it is significant: twenty words of six hundred to say..., that I believe that in everything we are living these days some guilt will have those who have declared independence. No, for Podemos, no; not at all. Not even a small reference to saying: "Look, won't those who went up to this Faristol to declare independence have some guilt? I mean. Will those who have become independent from day to day to cover up the corruption of their parties have some guilt? Would it not be that those who have divided society and broken it in half will have some guilt? Well, no. In the proposal of the new partner of the process there is neither a – nor a – reference, in all its six points, to what they have done and what the independenceist politicians who have led us to this solution are doing. That's very, very significant. And we are concerned because, seeing his proposal, it seems that we are here because a biblical curse has fallen on us and a judge has risen in the morning and it has occurred to him: "I will start a series of proceedings against these gentlemen. Have they not done something previously? Did they not come to this Parliament, which belongs to all Catalans, to declare independence? But no, this doesn't exist for you. Be careful, because when you enter Matrix it's hard to get out [[remorse of the voice]] And they're coming in, and when they come in, it's hard to get out. And seeing these days the acts that we're seeing, the images that are happening, their photos, in the end put them not close to what some might come to think at some point that we might be able to do, which would be contributing to change, right? In fact, you have used that slogan a lot, "change. And the change is to continue the process? No, no, The change is to put an end to the process – the change is to put an end to the process – but you are the lengthening of the process, which is to keep talking about the subject, of course, and not to make a criticism of what the process lords are doing. That's right, they find criticisms of everyone. In fact, they dedicate an entire intervention to criticizing Citizens. They also name Mariano Rajoy, in this document, and forget something very important. You could have saved this PR, this motion for a resolution, speaking of Mariano Rajoy, if you had voted in favour of a government agreement in the Congress of Deputies, where Mr Domènech was, who is now not, in which basically what we were proposing was an alternative government. And do you know what they did? To vote no, because you are the party of 'no' and 'no'. [[Greetings.]] It's very good to talk about Mr. Mariano Rajoy, put it here in point number 1 – yes, in the first, eh? – at the first point it is very good to talk about Mr Mariano Rajoy, but it would be better than when you have the opportunity of an investiture, that there is an alternative government in Spain, with a government agreement with the Socialist Party, that you vote in favour or that you approve it, but no, you are the ones of « it is not and « not too. Then we are concerned that with this proposal that you are making, at the worst moment in the process, where all of Europe has seen that it is a failure, where we are in a situation of rupture of society and in a situation of unprecedented social instability, where we have seen the flight of companies that have occurred, where they themselves recognise it, "we have to make self-criticism, they said the other day, although they do not, in order to try to add... That is, in the low hours of the process, you arrive, who are the helpers of the process. They're always there to help them. They're always there to throw a cable at them. Instead of adding up, instead of trying to change things, instead of proposing a change, you like to extend it. And when you extend the process we are further away from solving the real problems, that I am sure you agree with us in some of them, and we are closer to the breakup of society, which is what is happening. The thing is, we're starting to get squared out. Some of us tie ropes. It's not that we're... you don't have to be Sherlock Holmes, actually, to come to the conclusion. And what we see is that you have just voted against Mr Torrent's resignation, too. I don't know if they have a deal with Esquerra and Convergence anymore. They'll explain it to us. We'll find out. But if you're in that line, as I told you before, eye, because when you enter Matrix it's hard to get out. And if you are going to become the crutch of nationalism, if you are going to become the crutch of the independence parties, the sooner you tell us, the better, especially to your voters or those left. On today's flagship issue, also in the motion for a resolution – then I will refer to the amendments, too – you are talking about the barbarity of the day. You are in addition to the barbarity of today, which is that this Parliament, that is, these Members of Parliament, democratically elected by the Catalans, can tell the judges who are coming in or who is going out of jail. That is to say, Parliament, the legislature, can decide what judges have to do. That's the barbarity of the day. And you copy it, copy it or put it the same way, in your proposal. It's just that sometimes, reading the, really, I don't know if it's Podemos or Esquerra or Convergence, because they say exactly the same thing, at this point, that it's to affect judicial decisions. And that's very serious, because who we are, who I am, who you are, to tell the judges what they have to do. It's very serious. They will remember that phrase that Guerra said that « Montesquieu has died. Well, some of us, with the defibrillator, are trying to get it back, but of course today Montesquieu is going to die again in this Parliament, because it is going to attack again the separation of powers, which is a basic principle and a fundamental principle of democracy. And today you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, with the independence parties, are going to kill Montesquieu again and break the separation of powers again. And the truth is, at this point, you do have to say what, you are consistent, that is true, because you said it on your program. In fact, in their program they said that judges have to be committed to the government program. That said the program of Podemos. I mean, you guys are consistent. You like to name the judges by finger. And not only that, but they also say what the government says. I mean, look at the principle of separation of powers, too. Therefore, it is true that they are coherent, because they follow their government program, but think about it too, reflect on whether a political force like Podemos, which at some point we came to think about, and I think also their voters, whether they really were or were not with independence. You played yes, but no, no, but yes, yes, but yes, but no, but now it has become clear where you are, now it has become clear that it is you... – Mr.Domenech, who was not before – you are the new partner of the process. I was saying it before, and they have indeed shown it. And that's good news for the trial lords. For you it is good news, because having a parliamentary majority that we recognize, as it cannot be otherwise – you do not recognize that Citizens win the elections, but we recognize that you have a parliamentary majority, basically because we know how to add up –, you cannot exercise the after, you are not able to exercise the. But don't worry – don't worry – if the CUP doesn't pick up their phone, as I told you before, call Mr. Domènech. Finally, on the amendments, we are going to vote against the proposal. We have tabled amendments. You said that you had run through the corridors, figuratively, I understand, or not, perhaps with all reality. I would recommend that you run less behind Republican Left and the 3 percent Crown Convergence of Corruption, and, from time to time, you go and talk to those we want to remain Catalan, those we want to remain Spanish and those we want to remain European. Because before you go out in the photo with Citizens you prefer to go out with the Convergence of 3 percent. It is so, and it is very serious, because before being on the side of those we want to remain Catalan, Spanish, European, in which we can find points of union..., in fact, we have reached agreements with Podemos in other parts of Spain, our party. Yes, it comes to agreements with Podemos on regeneration, on electoral law... we're negotiating proposals. But here it seems impossible, because you have settled, as I told you before, on the side of the process. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , because you have been placed to be the crutch of the independence parties.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.153.0	Mr De Paramo, time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.154.0	And I'm done. During a time, as I told you, you played yes but no, but now all of Catalonia, all of Spain knows which side you play. And what I'm asking you to do is to be responsible at a time like this. Your voters will thank you, the ones you still have left. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.155.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.156.0	Thank you, President. I will be allowed by Mrs. Alemany who makes a small tour, before answering, to refer to Mr. Xavier Domènech. Mr Xavier Domènech, in the investiture plenary, received some criticism, not only from the Faristol, but also from some parliamentary chroniclers, and he was given the toilet that seemed to be still lying at the Congress of Deputies. The first day is true that he shouted a lot. If it's any consolation, when I came from Congress, how this room is smaller, I passed the same. I guess with a little practice he'll get over it. The second day they didn't criticize him to speak very loudly, because, in fact, he spoke very quietly; they criticized him for the content. I have the feeling that those critics, after analyzing this motion for a resolution, were and are deeply mistaken, because you know perfectly well where you are, and Mrs. Alamany knows perfectly well where you are. This is worse. They sent them to you here only and exclusively to make ariet, to help bring down the government of Mariano Rajoy. Mrs. Alamany, don't you have anything to say about the manipulation of parliamentary life that is lived here to favor only part of the political groups? They have nothing to say about the episodes of violence that we've experienced in the past few days, and they're just talking about Rajoy, Rajoy, Rajoy, Rajoy? Is it thought, Mrs. Alamany, that the moment has come, the reactionary nationalism of Carlina will please you the favor? You don't think she's going to be a botiflera, fatxa and whatever she wants? Actually, they say it, even more so than I do, that you already deserve. Mr. Rabell and Mr. Coscubila are and they were very critical of the Spanish government, very much, and they continue to feel it when they went to third parties. But when you were deputies of this chamber, here, I speak from here– here, huh? , not in Madrid, here – they were fully aware that what was going on here is that they were committing very serious anti-democratic irregularities, very serious, dangerous, certain, to the legitimate party debate, because they refer to the rules of the democratic game. This is the democratic experience of the 6th and 7th of September in this chamber. All the democratic opposition united criticizing all that. In short, have you forgotten about this? You don't criticize everything about that anymore. You are simply now limited to accepting all the axioms, as I said in my previous intervention, of nationalism. U: that the legal action is directed from the Moncloa. Liar. Two: they can release prisoners by decision of a government. Liar. And, three, the one that provokes the thought that we have presented: that civil and political rights are being violated because the UN says so. False. What the UN says..., the UN makes a request to the Government of Spain, through an opinion. The Government of Spain has six months to answer. But this request is not made in any case to the Spanish courts, because the same agreement – and it has to be read, these things have to be read – says that the pact does not refer to the courts of the signatory countries, but refers exclusively to the governments, the executing power of each case. Therefore, it must be hoped that the government will respond. But they're not addressing Spanish justice. One of the most important lies of the separatist process is not to be overcome, as they say that there are great democracies in the world that would recognize Catalonia's independence as the demise that is proclaimed. There's no more lying going on. Therefore, Mrs. Alamany, I left your company from Podemos to the Congress that taxes Mr. Mariano Rajoy – they have all the right to do so – and here, if I may the advice of friend, taxes on reactionary nationalism Carlistón, among other things because this reactionary nationalism does – and one of its objectives – is to carry the principles that are sometimes inspired by European eco-socialism, ideology that, once upon a time, has come to inspire its political formation, that much in fear is today more oriented towards Bolivarian movements than through that democratic movement of European eco-socialism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.157.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's coming back now... [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. It's the return of Mrs. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.158.0	Well, first of all, explain that the CUP - Creed Constituent, in this motion for a resolution presented to us by the Group of the European People's Party, we have presented some points, three in concrete; points that we considered to be as small as possible, to say: "Well, let's put it easy, because we want to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. And the answer was: « No. Point. It was just this one. And in this sense we consider that, before this answer, we cannot support this motion for a resolution and what we are doing is abstaining from it. But well, let's explain. The first thought that we have presented, and it is also a thought in the meaning of the speech that... when this motion for a resolution was explained. You always talk about the responsibility of the government of Mariano Rajoy, but here you all know – and it is no secret – that the situation of democratic regression in which we find ourselves does not depend on a single man, nor on a single party; it depends on a whole state disposed to everything to exclaim the popular will, a state willing to pursue the dissent at any price. And what we asked of you in our quest was that we recognize this question. And, therefore, do not assign this anti-democratic capacity to a man, to the government of Mariano Rajoy, and actually put things and say things for his name: the natural, the anti-democratic origin of this State, this Spanish State, and its Constitution. The republic movement we have been, we have been, very clearly and unequivocally, victims of a barbarism and saved unjustly and impromptuly. In view of this situation, we consider that there should be no space for the doubt. No one who is considered democrat can stand still before this injustice. No one can get pale wondering what his place is and what his paper is. In this sense, let us celebrate that, initially, we begin to see that there is a somewhat clearer position in this sense. What we consider is that it didn't fit until here I had nine people trapped, seven exiles and all repression at the hands that we have rejected as the people. Now and here it is, by the way, that we search for the common spaces that allow us to give a collective response to this authoritarian State, as we say, not just to the Government of Mariano Rajoy, to this authoritarian State that scans us, that chases us and that wants to move us and to gabia. And in the search for these common spaces we explicitly ask you to speak with your colleagues, that we move something beyond the principality, that we move there where, too, a mobilization worthy of the situation in which we live, a mobilization that seeks to recover democracy in the Spanish State and for all its peoples and citizens. We ask you very sincerely. Says the Garcese Navy that the State is used to being the place of the sovereign; also says that when the crisis occurs the need to locate that can decide what, and adds that we find ourselves at this moment in a struggle of sovereigns that someone wants to cover up and neutralize with a fight of identities, as if it were a question of nationalism. We think it's a matter of sobrieties, I repeat, about who's in charge and who's deciding. At this moment of greatest transcendence, at this moment when the State imposes its authoritarian will on an ample popular will, now itself, as we fight for sovereignty, for this sovereignty, to decide, right? , to make clear who decides what. For the sobriety of this Parliament, as we are fighting for political and civil rights, for freedom of expression and assembly, for the right of vagaries, for the release of political prisoners, for the return of exiled persons. And here, another question we've rejected a no. We, at the same time, proposed that, literally, this struggle, that we understand that it is a shared struggle, should have ended at the same time, and we have received a no per answer. The last few years have been marked by multiple struggles for political and social rights: for the right to decide, for the right to a reference, for the right to a real democracy; for the most elementary social rights: the right to work, to housing. And this struggle has generated some responses from the State and its political and judicial system that, instead of seeking solutions in the framework of dialogue and democracy, have generated restrictive laws in the area of civil and political rights, in particular [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] rights of assembly and freedom of expression. I'm done. It's not a day for toilets, it's a day for justice, it's a day for struggle, it's a day for resistance, it's a time for us to make no step back in defending something as simple and basic as all political projects have to be able to endure democratically, also the political republic project. And in this sense we don't want to go back. Not just the struggle for democracy is a legitimate struggle in this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.159.0	Mrs. Sànchez, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.160.0	I'm done. We look in the margins at the same time, the space that allows us to resist the authoritarian repression, but also the common space that allows us not to renounce the aspiration of freedom. In this fight, there's no one left. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.161.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Now it's the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. It's Mr. Xavier Quinquillà's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.162.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Members and Members, first of all, I want to convey all the affection and support to the family of the business people who have accompanied us today, and for whom we call for immediate freedom. Today's plethora seems to me to be an enriching and necessary exercise. Enricher, for the fact of being able to share the different visions represented here about the difficult and critical moment he saw the country, but also of opportunity. You need it, because the solution depends to a great extent on the ability to analyze a complex and uncertain context that urgently needs a glider. Visions, some of which are very long, in some antagonistic aspects, but many, certainly complementary and enriching. Visions, all of them, necessary, since they are part of the plural reality of the country. Just taking into account this plurality and diversity and recognizing the national character of Catalonia, with what it supposes right to decide freely and sovereignly its future, we can build paths, bridges and exits as we live. One of these complementary visions is that which brings us to Comú Pode, expressed in part through this motion for a resolution, of which we share an important part of the diagnosis, for which we give support to most of its points, in concrete terms to points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, but not to its totality, for which we will abstain to point 5, which we believe limits the aspirations of full national freedom. What do we share? First, the defense of democracy as a political system to resolve differences and empower them to odds of progress and freedom; democracy, with its implicit values of recognition of difference and also as a solution to these political differences through the majority of respect for minorities. This is the way to resolve the recognition of the will of a political and social majority of Catalans and Catalans who are silenced in the Spanish State, now also through the judicialization of politics. We also share the denunciation of the abuses of a Spanish state that violates individual and collective rights and lacks the will of a large majority of Catalans and Catalans who are open to dialogue and negotiation. The answer to this más estesa is fucking, threatening, arresting and sanctioning. We share the view of the concept of diversity as an opportunity and not as a problem, before a state with a clear authoritarian and homogenizing drift that systematically denies the rights of minorities; authoritarianism and homogeneity are terms that are associated because those who want us all the same are those who end up imposing their rights on everyone else. We also share the will to place people in the centre of the political debate, from compromise in the construction of a more just, cohesive society that generates opportunities for everyone and that gives to a citizen who claims to be the protagonist of her presence and her future. We share the longings for social justice, which means equal opportunities, where difference is not the opposite of equality but precisely homogeneity, because the opposite of equality is inequality and because with this we also share the bond of sovereignty in social justice. We share the value of fraternity as a means of coexistence, respect and solidarity between people and people; a fraternity that makes us feel very dear to so many Spanish citizens who also see their rights limited, victims of State apparatus that censor criticism, silence discretion, limit rights and freedoms. But there is also strength that we do not share; especially, the ambiguity of a speech that unjustly places in the same plane the actions of a state that crosses the limits of democracy and the state of right in front of the will of an important part of the Catalan people that wants to exercise the right to decide their future freedom, democracy and peace. And if mistakes have been made, in no case do they justify the authoritarian and repressive drift of a Spanish state that has decided to renounce politics and democracy as a solution. They are not ambiguities when one side denies democracy while the other only wants democracy; when the State to which it is asked can only respond with authoritarianism, repression, rape and humiliation. But the way out is only to find democracy and politics, politics and democracy; a way that now requires more than ever greater majorities to safeguard the popular will and especially that of its legitimate representatives, national rights and the ability of the Catalan people to decide their future in a democratic and sovereign way; great majorities to build a country that is fairer, free, ready and exemplary; great majorities, above all and above all, to preserve the pillars on which our society is founded, which are freedom, democracy, the defence of the rights of the people, but also, and also, the dignity of a nation that lives on the ground, for which many people have struggled with freedom, democracy, the defence of the rights of the people, and the dignity of a nation that is based on social society, and that is, to the end, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule of power, the rule, the rule of power, the rule, the rule of the rule of the rule, the rule of the rule of the rule, the rule of the rule of the rule, the rule of the rule, the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule, the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule, the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule, the rule, the rule, the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of We live hard hours that require a long, generous look, responsibility and hope. We all have a part of the pilot in our teulades, we all form part of the solution; with the social majority of the country, we will put the darkness of repression on the ground. And let me finish with poetry, because we also need poetry, with some verses that seem especially relevant to me and that do not need presentation: « Now say: The broom blooms, / shoot to the camp there is red of roses. / With new falsification we begin to reap / the mature blat and with it, the weeds. / Ah, young keys closed after/ from the dark, if you knew how the dawn has tricked us, how long it is to wait/ a lift of light in the darkness! ........................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.163.0	Thank you, Mr. Quinquillà. It is now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruben Wagensberg's return.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.164.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, we find ourselves in front of a disenfranchised Spanish state, which has long since failed to guarantee the fundamental rights of its citizens and citizens – assuming that it has done so some time in its entirety since the franchise. It does not respect social rights, individual rights, or collections. In the Spanish State, the year 2017 was executed, in mid-January, 159 daily denunciations, half with infants for mine, is to say that every day 159 people were left homeless. This tempts against Article 47 of the Constitution that some defend with such vehemence. Cases, of course, bank robberies that probably invest a lot of millions of euros in arms companies; arms that these companies, with the help of the State, and particularly the Royal House, come to other countries. And weapons that, as far as I know, are used to make wars. In the Spanish State there are 300,000 people waiting for help in dependence, and they have touched us living in a state where, while thousands of pensioners are demonstrating, the king is going skiing. The freedom of expression is constantly attacked: it is condemned tweeters, singers... – in fact I am not saying that it has not been repeated much already in this chamber–, it is forbidden exhibitions, it is secret books and, if not, we have recently seen in our house how people rush to make politics. The monster, whom the faith sleeps, seems to be waking up. We live and, above all, we live hard times, hard times like the ones we've probably had a hard time imagining. And it's important to be clear, because only if we can identify and hear the reality in which we live will we really know where we are and who we have before. We have to add, we have to add more than ever to everything that refers to civil rights, and only if we make a common front we can defend our differences. I agree very much with what the Natalia said. Eli, he is mistaken that authoritarianism and the culture of why we are painted is solely the responsibility of Mariano Rajoy and his government. Because the problem of this State is not or is not just the People's Party, but the problem of this State is this State, starting, effectively, for the government of Mariano Rajoy as the spearhead. Now we see the statements of Millo, who warns President Torrent that he is following the same steps as Forcadell and that he already knows where he is on this path. I am doing so with the unconditional or indirect support of two groups represented in this chamber, which give support to assumptions without asking for any more explanation than ‘hard hand against independence. Mr. De Páramo, don't be mistaken, we have a judicial power that weakens and self-humiliates the interests of concrete parties. The Soraya's tricks to the Constitutional Court are a clear example. And private businesses that accept chanting. It's not escape, it's blackmail. Many communication mediums, three-quarters and a half of the same: work intensively to generate a mental_frame that justifies any animalades. We have returned to see these days when it leaked and magnified a document for the Civil Guard, in which it accused people who carry all their lives working for the culture of the pa, such as the esteemed Jordi Armadans, assigned directly for the Civil Guard. Or groups of escorts and guides, or people as little suspicious as the philosopher Marina Garcés. The repressive, relentless action of the State is trying to silence you, and it will not stop until it ends with everything that bothers you. Whether it's Catalan politics, whether it's activists or workers who claim their rights, or whether it's just that the State picker doesn't stop, and we've seen it before. But the good news is that Catalonia has done all this before. And it's that when it comes to claiming Catalonia's citizenship, it's very persistent, and even very heavy, and maybe that's what bothers them. They were very heavy people who in the 70's ran before the grey, or people who in the 76's were calling for freedom on the streets of Prat del Llobregat, not to mention the workers of the metropolitan area of Barcelona, who have raised their eyes one time and another, tirelessly, to demand some decent barrels and conditions of work. From Laforsa to Bimbo, passing through SEAT, which certainly occupied the factory in full franchise. Or the « No to war, or the burdens and burdens that, while the last few years see how the shadow of neo-feixist ideas was born again throughout Europe, here is the cry «We want to embrace the « Frontal Open. [[Greetings.]] More heavy people: all those, promoted by very many people, certainly, very much coming from the Spanish people, who demanded, in castle, that their children were educated in Catalan; those who were locked up to the Caputxins; the camp of 0.7; those who wept for Sarajevo, or this year I think it's the forty years of the first demonstration for LGBTI rights. The « shared struggles, which he liked to say in Jordi Cuixart. Certainly, Mr. Iceta: you were, in all these struggles, you were, and it is very painful for many Catalans and for many Catalans to see how she gives the skeleton to the family members who suffer the repression that some day also suffered the members of her own party. Rectify the historical error that was supposed to give support to 155. This spirit of always wanting to be more, more right, more free, is the same as we could see on October 1, while the people were holding up fucking shots to defend the ballot box, or on October 3, when a sincere country was put up to reject police violence and the repression of the State. It is, of course, the same spirit that makes a lot of people want to move towards a republic. And, look, independence could have done better things surely, a lot, a lot of things, a lot of things, no doubt. The same independenceists, in fact, always complain to the parties less paternalism, clearer, more transparency and a plan. I assure you, however, that before this state there were no easy people. Independence has only tried to exercise its right, the same right that it exercised in democracies such as the corner or the Canadian: the right to self-determination, a universal right. We defend this right, and the State doesn't just deny it, it just represses us. Do one thing: grab the answers to the demand for self-determination that Canada, the United Kingdom or Spain have had, compare them and you will find the icons of the problem and those responsible for the current situation. It is not necessary to want to apply a right to defend those who want to apply it and who are retaliated, it is not necessary not to have a home to claim the right to the "living" and it is not necessary to live to the Jew to come down to manifest against the transfer of the Jew, nor is it necessary to suffer gender discrimination to be feminist. Remember the fight of the miners of England, which took over the support of the gay movement and managed to gather a box of resistance to feed the families of the miners on the move; on the change, the miners union forced the approval of a resolution for the equality of rights. Or the feminists of the United States, who in the 19th century fought against racial discrimination, with curiosity, for sure, that the black community ended up getting the vote before it gave it. Of course, we're talking about the asylum. Do you know why a lot of people leave your country? So, there's people leaving your country because they're dropping bombs on your head, there's people leaving your country because it wins, there's people leaving your country because they've flooded the camps where they were working because of the climate change, or even because of gender. But there are a lot of people leaving your country because you have to spend the rest of your life in prison for a political motive, and that's exactly what's going on right now in this country, starting with the former president of this Parliament, who is now locked in a 15-metre-square cell and there will be the next seven hours of this day and probably the next five years, in a bed that's an iron plan and a windshield like this... As a matter of fact. The case of Marta Rovira's letter, which as she went to exile reminded us that every kilometre she felt as she walked from an invisible prison in which she lived and as she went to recover little by little her sight, but that the real motive of her path is the right that deserved her daughter to be educated by a mother; the right. We are fully aware that independence is not a political objective for you, but it is precisely what unites us today. The differences between projects cannot be converted into our relations being the subject of the attacks on democracy. As a matter of fact. Whatever the space or structure we create to do it, we all have to be generous, we all follow generous, it's what we need. It's not that they need it, it's that they need it. The same way that no independentist or non-independentist seeks or intends to see in these complicitys, at such exceptional times and with so much emergence, any renunciation. Let's not give up working or sweating to implement the republic as fast as we can, let's not fool anyone, either. [[relays]] – you'll see the plumer, won't you? [[the timer riu]] – because this is our firm commitment – this is our firm commitment. The way to this, the way to this struggle..., we're sacrificing the right to freedom, we're sacrificing the freedom of many people, and people who may not be coming back until five years ago to our streets. For this sense of state and for this responsibility, for the rights of all people living in this country and the collectives in which they come together and belong, it is necessary that, whatever our political project is, and in absolute renunciation of it, we know and remain aware of the need to articulate the collective spaces of great majority in defense of civil rights. Majorities, in short, because we have a long shared path, a shared struggle. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.165.0	Thank you, Mr. Wagensberg. Now, in order to position herself on the test pieces, Mrs. Alamany has a two-minute turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.166.0	Quickly. Mr De Páramo: in order not to talk about the process, I think I have counted at least, for the lower end, sometimes the word 'procedure' in your speech. You see, you're the reverse of the process? You see, that you're feeding on this process? It's true, you have thirty-six deputies, and we only have eight. I wonder how it could have been months ago and that it had not done anything at all, no proposal. Because we... can please them more or less the proposals we make, but today we have not made one. I understand that I am surprised that there are few toilets in our motion for a resolution, but it may have been forgotten that we do not come here to do toilets, we come to do politics, we come to make political proposals. And I invite them to reflect, because maybe that's why they're absolutely alone – they're absolutely alone. [[Widow's remorse.]] And you're very good at making up and making up. I'm giving these to you. They're very good at playing games and faristols; of politics, not so much. It's true that sometimes they look to quote some author, because I seem a little serious, but go ahead, no proposal. Mr. Alejandro Fernández, you have captured it perfectly: we are the ariaet against the People's Party. I think she's done the most uncertain reading. There is an obvious reality: our proposal has been the only one that has rejected considerations from all political forces. It's also true that we haven't had the time we wanted to embrace all the items we would have liked... I, please, and from the point of view, tell Ciutadan and the People's Party, of the Andalusian mother, of the mother who feels Spanish: the Spain that dreams of my mother is Machado's, but it's neither Ciutadan nor the People's Party. And I say again: we appreciate the confidence that they give us – I don't know if we can read it this way – that this proposal contained Junts' ideas or proposals for Catalonia, Esquerra, the Socialist Party, Ciutadans, the People's Party and the CUP. They must not be so painful if everyone wants to make proposals and proposals to our motion for a resolution. Maybe it's a new era where someone has to lead consensus. If that's what our paper is for in this Parliament, because a new era is opened to lead consensus, we take the glove and make this paper in this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.167.0	Thank you, Mrs. Alamany. It has not been strictly positioned on the exams. In any case [[laughs and remorse of the eyes]] I understand that all groups have the compromise proposal... yeah? [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Pedret?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.168.0	To ask for a separate vote: from one band, from points 1 and 6, and from the other, from 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.169.0	I understand that this means that 1 and 6 can vote together, and 2 can vote in a band. [[Pause.]] Any other separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. De Paramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.170.0	Yes; thank you, President. We, in the same vein as we did with the first motion for a resolution we saw today, are calling for a separate vote on point 2 as a sign that our parliamentary group is not going to participate in that point, because we believe that our parliamentary group is no one to tell the judges of this country who enters or who leaves prison. [[Ruben Wagensberg Ramon asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.171.0	Yes, Mr. Wagensberg...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.172.0	We ask for the separate vote from point 3, please. [[Xavier Quinquillà Durich asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.173.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.174.0	We ask for a separate vote on point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.175.0	Well, I don't know if they're aware of it, but they've asked for a separate vote from all the points, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] So, that's what we're gonna do, huh? Yes, Mrs. Alamany?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.176.0	We would ask for reading points 5 and 6, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.177.0	All right, we'll do it. We are calling for a vote; once we have just called for a vote, we will proceed to the vote, I insist, from all six points separately. [[Pause.]] All right, let's proceed to the vote on the first point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 73 votes to 39, with 21 abstentions. And we shall now proceed to the vote on the second point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 73 votes to 20, with 4 abstentions. And we will now proceed to the vote on the third point. The vote begins. This was approved by 58 votes to 39, with 35 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the fourth point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was approved by 89 votes to 39, with 4 abstentions. And we would move to the fifth point of this motion for a resolution, which I call on the fourth secretary of the Bureau to read it first.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.178.0	"It's a five. The Parliament of Catalonia, as the Chamber shows the political plurality of the country, is working to find the tools and instruments necessary to recover the institutions, seeking to build large majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.179.0	All right. The vote begins. This was approved by 56 votes to 39, with 37 abstentions. And we would now move to the sixth and later point of this motion for a resolution, which has also been asked for reading. So I go back to the fourth secretary who does it before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.180.0	"Yes. The Catalonian Parliament calls on the group of social and political actors in this country to work together, from the broadest and most plural possible, to defend the values of democracy, freedom and justice, which, like the foundational pillars in which Catalan society is built, are vulnerable, especially and hard in the past.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.181.0	Thank you, secretary. The vote begins. That point was adopted by 73 votes to 39, with 21 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Seventy-two... excuse me, yes, 72 votes in favour, 39 against and 21 abstentions. [[Proposal for the appointment of the Members who are to defend before the Congress of Deputies the Proposition of the Law of Reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, of decriminalization of euthanasia and the aid to suicide]] [[271-00002/11]] And I am telling you that, as you know, three groups of this chamber, in this case the Parliamentary Group Republic, Socialists and Units for Progress and Catalonia in Comú May have called, pursuant to Article 81.3, for a modification of the order of the day to include in this plenary session a new point relating to the proposal for the appointment of the deputies to defend, before the Congress of Deputies, the Proposition of Law of Reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, of decriminalization of euthanasia and of aid to suicide. In any case, we would have to vote, if I may be in agreement, on this change in the agenda. Can I be absent? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right. Therefore, one day this change in the order of the day, I note that the proposal of candidates proposed to defend this proposal of law to the Congress of the Deputies will be configured by the lady Alba Vergés, of the Republican Parliamentary Group ; the lady Assumpta Escarp, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, and the lady Marta Ribas Frías, of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem. Can I approve for absence? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Therefore, it is approved that these three deputies follow those who defended this proposal... yes, sir sir?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.182.0	Yes, we want to express our abstention respect this point, and do not approve by consent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.183.0	I understand that with this consideration on the part of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP we should, then, vote, huh? So, if it seems to them, we'll vote... yes, ma'am Sirvent or ma'am Riera... yes, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.184.0	He took note of the honourable Member's request on behalf of our parliamentary group, in any case, to add the motion for a vote, so that this abstention. Naturally we are in favour of the nature of which it is intended to defend on this initiative, as it cannot be in any other way; we also participated very actively. Otherwise, what we do not share is that, precisely at these moments, we are planning, therefore, to go to defend any initiative at the Congress of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.185.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. Riera. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Fernández?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.186.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.187.0	Before you talk to me, tell me why I ask for the word, Mr. Fernández. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.188.0	For an acclaim with regard to the vote. Simply to convey that we, if it was by consent, in the sense that there was a majority that at the time approved one thing and, therefore, has all the right to go to Congress to defend this position..., this did not assume that we expressed an opinion that we had already expressed in the vote at the time. Since the intervention of the CUP..., this substantially modifies the feeling of what we have to do, more than anything because it does prefigure a position. Therefore, before we had said yes by consent, we would now abstain from the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.189.0	All right, thank you. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa? I ask you not to reproduce the terms of the debate that you have already made at the time, that is to say, that is strictly to the question of the delegation's vote. Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.190.0	It is that this is a change from what we said to the Board of Spokesmen and, therefore, we – too very briefly – will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.191.0	All right, thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Mr. Riera, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.192.0	Thank you, President. In any case, to add, in the sense of our vote, that what we claim in this abstention is that this Parliament applies these principles and approaches related to this theme in a sovereign and unanticipated way to the Congress of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.193.0	All right, that's clear. In any case, therefore, we would do this vote, we would call it a vote. [[Pause.]] As you know, and since it's a vote that affects people, this vote is going to be electronic but secret, huh? In any case, the vote begins. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Excuse me for... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] As they point out, we'll do as we said, and as far as it affects..., that it's a vote that affects people, secret electronic voting, but the delegated votes, because otherwise, they can't be counted, so I'll ask them to say it publicly, huh? We shall therefore begin the vote. The vote begins. Yes, Mr. Sabrià, delegated vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.194.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.195.0	Mrs. Artadi, your group's delegated votes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.196.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.197.0	All right. The proposal was therefore adopted by 88 votes to one, with 38 abstentions. We suspend the session, which will resume at two-quarters of five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.198.0	Well, good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Report of the Greuges Syndic on the performances of the Greuges Syndic around the 1-O]] [[360-00027/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is the presentation of the Greuges Syndic Report on the Greuges Syndic's performances around October 1. Before starting this point, allow me to greet, in the name of the chamber, the syndic of heavyweights and the rest of his team, Mr Ribó and the rest of the members of the syndic of Greuges who are with us today, obviously, for this plenary session. According to Article 181 of the Rules of Procedure, the heavyweight syndic will make a presentation of this extraordinary initial report, and then it will be the turn of the groups to position themselves to respect in a turn of two minutes for each group and five for the two subgroups of this Parliament. Therefore, now, initially, has the word the syndic of heaviness, has the word the Lord Rafael Ribó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.199.0	Thank you, President. At the request of the Board of Portaveus, I appear at this session to report on what since November has this chamber as the Report-synthesis of the actions of the Syndic of Greuges around '1 October. Allow me to remotely record a series of very necessary questions to understand all the work the institution has done. The first, the task we have of the Statute of Independence of Catalonia to defend and guarantee rights and freedoms in agreement with the Statute, in agreement with the Constitution, and, therefore, also, in agreement, as both the Constitution and the Statute say, with the international treaties that have subscribed from the Spanish State. To say that, in this sense, the part of which I will report to you remotely is also based on complaints to the institution, with agency actions to companies, in matters that are related to what I will explain, and with intense contact with the Catalan society, already with entities in general – to which I agree, at the very least, when they address the syndicate–, that is to say, with the Human Rights Structure of Catalonia, which we have created the Institute of Human Rights and the Greek Synod jointly, according to the parameters of the principles of Paris – and which are working, despite the fact that it has not been objected to in the context of possible presentation and debate in this room, for reasons of the events that have taken place in this Parliament – and which are working, but not in the context of the Assembly itself, but in the context of the Assembly itself, but in the context of the Assembly itself, but also in the context of the Assembly's relations with the other bodies, which are, but also in the context of the Assembly, but also in the context of the Assembly, which the Assembly has not yet been involved in this House. I want to underline that we have had an intense contact – forgive me, and take it, if you want, as a criticism – much more with international organizations than with this Parliament. The European Commissioner for Human Rights, the highest authority for human rights in Europe, has shown, in a very well-known way, interest in everything that is done by the Synod of Greuges of Catalonia, also the Parliamentary Assembly and, obviously, in the sessions that I have been able to attend, the same Venice Commission and the same President of the European Court of Human Rights. We have had contacts, on two occasions, which were invited all of you to participate, with all the European bodies that were in Barcelona, starting with the Agency for Fundamental Rights of the European Union – FRA – or the same Ombudsman for the People of the European Parliament, and, of course, the OSCE and the Office for Human Rights, its white counterpart for human rights. I am proud to say that, together with them – and in this case, as president of all European defenders – I have had the honour of working in Poland twice to defend human rights against the actions that the Polish government is taking to reduce democracy. Poland has been warned with Article 7 of the European Treaty on Democracy. But Poland, as the chairman of this international delegation, has not seen a political policy set up in the lead of the debates on these possible attacks on the European treaties. Also tell them that my assistant, secretary of the committee chairing the European network of children's rights, has also participated in subjects that I will refer to later, which have served us to make this report. We have worked with some international human rights agencies that have asked us to do so, basically sub-ratallaria Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. And, of course, we have worked and continue to work with the United Nations, not only with organizations that are directly seeking us out of this Parliament, such as the CPT or the SPT, but with the High Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council. Precisely, the last dilluns I was in an act in Geneva, an act in itself from the commemoration of human rights, to an event site, which is said to be organized for the Institute of Human Rights of Catalonia, partner of the United Nations, and in that same act I was invited, for a question that it took time for them to work, for the high commission of the United Nations to a session of work the dececres. What happens is that on the morning of Tuesday he had visits to prisons and police stations in the city of Lleida and, after that, a public act with entities, in the late afternoon, to Lleida, I had to return to correct, and the dimecres, to return there, with an airplane, early morning, to Geneva, to participate with the high commission in a long work session, with the European direction of the high commission, with the direction of the high commission and with the desk of Espanya with the high commission. The April of last year, in this chamber, we discussed a report that carries by title..., I forgive April, I rectify, the June of this past year, we discussed a report, published by April in this chamber, which carries by title: "Retroces in the matter of human rights: freedom of expression of the elected bodies and separation of powers from the Kingdom of Spain. I would have been willing by this syndic to discuss it in this very sitting room, in the plenary. It was discussed two months later when it was presented to the committee. And I want to remind them very carefully what this report refers to. It starts with a reference that I think goes through everything we can discuss about rights, freedoms and possible regressions to what freedom of expression means. Freedom of expression, as the European Court of Human Rights says, if it is the essential freedom for everyone, it is more particularly for the political party and its active members, and there can be no limitation in the exercise of its functions. In this sense, he points out, in the report to which I have just referred, as he has done with a series of measures a few years ago, that the syndicate warns, now indeed from this rostrum, by submitting the annual report when he referred to the laws of the General Courts which affect the citizen of Catalonia that they spread rights and freedoms, such as the Law of Citizen Security, better known as the "Lei di seguretà citutadana". As the law known as the law bites is something that affects rights and freedoms and that can mean a real setback in rights and freedoms. I am aware that practically the totality of the parliamentary arc at the Congress of Deputies expressed in its day a practically identical opinion. There was a compromise to repeal that law by reforming its most aggressive aspects. The syndic, who knows, until today has not advanced anything yet from that will. And, therefore, it repeats that it is a law that – as many of those I have quoted say, with which we have been working in the international sphere and which I will not tire of repeating to the quotes – it is a law that seriously affects freedom of expression, if not more. And that we carry more than 300,000 interventions around the law bite, which is based on what we were used to, those we have, in the franchise: "You are guilty while you are not proving the contrary. In democracy you're innocent while you're not proving the opposite. Today they can impose a series of guilt pennies, which then you are the one who will have to prove your innocence, not small pennies and with a direct effect on people's daily lives. In the same report, from the hand of the Greek – everyone knows what the Greek is, and it is an organization of great prestige in Europe – we noted that there was a partisanship of justice in Spain. The syndic did not say it, collects what they continue to say, still in the last report and after that of the syndic, which means the partisanship of justice to Spain. We saw that there was an erosion in the separation of powers with the later reform of the Constitutional Court. I must be, surely, forgiving the pride, the only person in this Chamber who was present at the Venice Commission, where was discussed the opinion prepared by Professor Modona on the subject. And I saw a strong view being expressed of the authority of the Constitutional Court, which was to obey and be the arbiter, but with which it was incorporated from power, such as the separation of elected officials, such as the imposition of pennies without appeal, erosion in the function of arbiter and recommending that nothing be attributed to anything that only Austria and by high treason has in a similar way in the whole panorama of European constitutional courts. We also noted in this report the progressive judicialization of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, let's begin to think about what the 2014 Constitutional judgment means when the political address begins to pose as the object of possible penalization. The address has always been the political impulse, not the legal act of compulsory compliment, the debate on the arch that you represent– that represents the people of Catalonia, as was said very well this morning, contradictory and conflict– and that they must have full freedom to discuss all the matters that may exist in this debate, and that they may, at last, propose political impulse agreements from this debate. When 2014... – a lot of Tomás and Valiente, a lot of Pedro Cruz Villalón, a lot of those great presidents of the Constitution who had maintained a prestigious homologation with the European constitutional courts – the Constitutional Court began to indicate the penalization, the criminal persecution, the opinions of partisan debate in parliamentary chamber. We say in this report that there had already been clear regressions of rights in Catalonia, as the actions of the UDEF – I was very quick – ; as the performance of the Minister of Interior Fernández Díaz, with conversations that everyone knows; as the restrictions that there was in the right of vote, that the syndic also carried in this chamber; as the failures in pluralism to which the LOREG obliges, in article 11, in the middle of the electoral campaign, and an etcetera. And we didn't stop cleaning up, and I'm sorry I told you today, that maybe it's back in the news, that they haven't filled in with historical memory. The United Nations said: "Spain is the only democracy that has had a dictatorship that has not accounted for with historical memory, nor to seriously investigate reality, nor to lay conditions because it is not repeated, nor to rescue everything that happened. Mr. De Greiff, on behalf of the Secretary General of the United Nations, said in two reports that the Spanish Government perfectly knows that it should be obliged to make some compliments that it does not realize. We made some conclusions, which the Members who attended the debate that we had in committee would remember perfectly, which I repeated to them and which, telegraphically, I will also remind them of, they all have to report, which, we say, should avoid resorting to the criminal procedure to resolve political conflicts; we made our views of the Ombudsman on the Organic Law of Citizens' Security, what the Council of Europe had said, what the Venice Council had said about the Constitution and a wide range of concrete quotes from organizations that had already spoken about it that we had put forward in our report. On November 2017, and I said I fed you why, from the complaints – I'll refer to them later, even in their various quarters – and from the actions we've done, we presented you with the Performance Report around October 1. It is worth saying that before October 1st there were regressions on issues affecting the right of assembly in the United States and Catalonia; there were judgments that banned public acts to present and lecture on the right to decide, to Spanish democracy, aware of the right of assembly and the right of expression, to various cities of Spain, and still pending any decision on this. We meant that there was an absolutely disproportionate action by the prosecution, that when there were court actions in the way of a halt to tax actions. Not only did the syndic say it; the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia said it, when an interlocutor called for the immediate cessation of judicial action, which had lasted months, had been prefabricating the design of certain crimes that are today in the middle of his debate. Remember a ruler of Vic who was told by Joan Coma that, having said something that the vice president of the government had also said on another occasion, "to make a trout pull the eggs, he will take to court under the accusation of sedition. I suppose you'll remember. It was way before many of the things you've been discussing this morning. We also noted in this report that there had been a resolution of the prosecutor's office of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia which was absolutely unconstitutional and outside the law, when it had articulated how to coordinate the police bodies, when there are laws, like the State, which believe together of security, which are, with all right at hand, the only place where there can be this coordination of the police bodies. We pointed out that there had been arrests of political bodies without providing for elementary Catalan, Spanish and European forecasts of the detention of persons, and that there was an escort from a political party premises with a request for material without a court order, the CUP premises. This in democracy – back to the beginning, to the first date – is the most time to freedom of expression and participation of those who represent us, each with the percentage of support that citizens have given them in some elections. We also agreed that, before 1 October, from the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs, and with one order, all the finances of the Generality were involved. The Budget Stability Act, which followed the reform in forty-four hours of the Constitution, establishes that when someone does not comply with the financial forecasts, he must be warned, give it fifteen days to complete and, if it does not, ask that it be set at 155. It was the only case in all Spanish laws cited in 155. Well, from the Ministry of Economy and History, without respect for what the Presuppositional Enabling Law says and breaking important aspects of this and the same Constitution, all the finances of the Generality have intervened. We also said before '1 October that the Constitutional Court exercised that power which the Venice Commission told it was not suitable for it, it put many huge names on Catalonia's electoral syndicates; against those who understood the right to do so, two elementary conditions: unheard of and without superior instance; without fulfilling two requirements which are at the elementary basis of the right, but which are at the European Convention of Human Rights. And he went into a set of measures from a literal prohibition of what was the referendum, making the referendum summons a crime. It should be borne in mind that, in its day, the Spanish legislature converted the fact of calling a reference into a criminal offence defined in the Criminal Code and, at the end of two years, by voting more than a majority of the General Courts, it decriminalized. That's what the syndic warned. Says the organic law that decriminalizes summoning references: the summons of reference on the part of those who do not have the capacity – therefore, illegally – "does not have enough entity to deserve penal toilet, and still less if the penalty that is provided is imprisonment. And he adds, he adds in this text: "In our order there are other forms of control of legality different from the criminal way. Therefore, they will take into account that the criminal law is governed by the principles of minimum intervention and proportionality. It's rabidly current, the Spanish organic law of decriminalization of the referendum. Focusing on a subject such as this with criminal measures, as the Spanish legislator says, is not only to ignore what had been legislated, but to go beyond all the proportionality and prudence forecasts completely. October 1st, the Greuges Synod received complaints about materials that affect the composition of the census, the composition of the prisons, the prohibitions of their celebration and the attacks of the referendum. There were complaints from a parliamentary group, the Socialist Group, about what approval had meant in this House of the Law of the Referendum, that the syndic had already said in the previous instance and reiterated in response to this group that the Catalan Parliament had committed a clear irregularity when the transfer of access to the Guarantee Council had been skipped before approving any law in this plenary and that there had been, how it was used, both on the part of parliamentary groups for affecting their rights, directly, as for the same legislator and the same authorities to stop the Spanish State, to act before that irregularity, as it ended with the suspension of the law and, later on, unconfirmedly. We were going to answer and we're still answering hundreds, now thousands of complaints that we're coming back on these issues. We wanted to pass on to the Catalan Data Protection Authority the aspects that affected people's private data on the census. We were going to answer with warnings to the Government of Catalonia about the composition of prisons, that they had not been... without the authority of the people involved. We asked for explanations about the attacks that were made by the public bodies, basically the National Police and the Civil Guard, the 1st of October. Who was eating those bones? Why did we have to intervene? Why did he intervene here and not there? Why did he go to villages of three hundred inhabitants with fifteen police vans, with authentic aldaruls, on the part of the police's own bodies, attacking everyone? Why were there attacks on absolutely peaceful people, sitting on their hands with a single weapon, which is called voting paper? We asked for an investigation into these matters and that these facts should be clarified. The European Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr Nils Muižnieks – whom I would like to pay tribute here, because, more recently, he will be replaced by the new Commissioner – wrote to the Spanish Government saying that an independent and effective investigation was needed into all the unequal and disproportionate conduct of the police during October 1. The highest authority of the Council of Europe. I the reply of the Minister of the Interior of the Spanish Government was that the proceedings were not directed against the citizens. Official response. What caused the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, Mr Jagland, to express the Minister of Norway and the current President of the Pau Nobel Prize, summoned the Government of Spain to Strasbourg and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Dastis, is committed there to an official investigation by the Spanish Government into October 1. Do you know any members of this camera of any page or paragraph of the official investigation of the Spanish Government into the events of October 1st? The syndic who speaks to them, who has repeatedly asked for it, also through the Ombudsman, does not know a single line, and I assure them that the Council of Europe does not either. But not just investigation, we asked for a dialog. Immediately after what had happened on October 1, the syndic came out with a very strong statement asking everyone for a dialogue. And I have to say that the syndic was very surprised that the speech of the head of state on October 1 does not have a dialog word, there is no word to call the dialog. The syndic, with the high authorities of England, with the high authorities of the State and with the high authorities of other autonomous communities – and this is the first time I say it publicly – was immersed in a series of days and weeks in an attempt to build contact wires between the various parts involved, and I must say, as a result, with a weak relationship, Britishly speaking, of these tasks. But I continue to say in the same way that we did in this report that this dialogue is more than ever needed; we need to abandon any position of unilaterality on the part of no one and to believe that, through measures or fines or – worse, still – judicial or criminal, there has come out in this very difficult situation. Next, we're talking in this report... sorry. I want to remind you that neither the Generality – which he said he would do; then it was cancelled for 155 – nor the Parliament of Catalonia, nor the Courts General – did some groups say that they would ask for it, and then they withdrew it or did not speak more about it – nor did the Spanish Government have any hint of an advance in that direction. Is it not worth a parliamentary or non-parliamentary dialogue? All the Spanish governments talked to people who carried machine guns to their hands, and they planted bombs, and they killed, they killed, to say the least, of all the partisan colors. This is absolutely out of the Constitution, out of the European treatises and out of what you want; it's against the most elementary right, which is the right to life. Is it possible to talk about it and can't talk about the subject they're discussing, now, and so on? Is there any understandable way to hear it? I say again, of all partisan colors. And, if not, if they weren't in the government, then others, afterward, approved it. In this sense, the syndic repeats, I say again, the will that there are areas of dialogue and again offer, as it did at that time, at the most, as the Law of the syndic says, all the modest abilities that we have to mediate or facilitate. Shortly afterwards came the arrest and imprisonment under pre-emptive arrest of the President of the National Assembly and the President of Ómnium Cultural. Two entities grouping together, they alone, more than triple of all the militancy that can hold all of you in their respective party organizations [[remorse of the voice]] ; two organizations that have always shown an absolutely independent orientation for a democratic mobilization, which connect with concrete and calendar moments, such as the demonstrations of September 11th. Can anyone in this chamber agree that the demonstrations of September 11 were criminal acts, as they are in documents from which they derive, with all respect for the independence of the judiciary, arrest and possible convictions for many years? Can anyone in this room pretend that the demonstrations of September 11th can be criminalized? Or are we under what is said in terms of European law' the chilling effect, the intimidating operation to create a menu of reports that escapes completely from a town that, beyond the ordinary cases that have been cited this morning – and I would add some others – from some bomb to the ends of the '70s, principles of the '80s, has not given a single buffet in defense of their political rights and claims? In this report we said that this was completely disproportionate, as is the application of 155 in the content that has been applied. Remember that 155 has to do with Weimar, German Republic. And you know who ended up with the Republic of Germany: Adolf Hitler, who ended up with exceptional powers from that constitution. It literally copies Bonn's phone law and is in the current constitution, and, as the syndic's report says, it has a series of forecasts for instructions to authorities that do not comply with dues in accordance with the constitutional order. From here, according to the syndic's report, we believe that it should not have resulted in cutting the link of political participation, which means ending a government and dissolving a parliament, and we also add that we are violating what Article 2 on the right to autonomy of nationalities and regions says and how it develops in the eighth title. I must inform you that we, as the syndicate – and when you say as the syndicate you are more than understanding with the participation of all these sources of information that I have told you and various people of recognition who help and advise us – we are preparing a new report on topics that are fully in force in possible attacks on rights, seen through the prism of those international rights that bind everyone to the Spanish State, as is considered parliamentary inviolability, as is considered the predetermined judgment of the law, as is considered the right to defence, as is considered the exercise of the same right of assembly or demonstration. There is a 2006 ruling of the Spanish Constitutional Court that is cited by many European bodies, where they are positioned as central nuclei of participation, these rights. An excellent feeling, today absolutely crushed for events. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen – it's the only time I get out of the text of these two reports – that you have told us a few days ago, as we have been working in Geneva, not the highest instance of rights in Europe, the highest instance of rights in the world, the highest commission of United Nations, when you said that "I was absolutely fainted because of the violence with which all the referendum in Catalonia broke on 1 October. And I want to remind the Spanish authorities that pre-trial detention must be extremely late. And I encourage them to solve this with political dialogue as soon as possible. Obviously, I subscribe from top to bottom what the other commission says. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.200.0	Thank you very much, syndic. Now it's the turn of the groups to position themselves, starting with the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa. I remember, in any case, all the groups that intervene, two minutes per group, five minutes per subgroup.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.201.0	Good afternoon. Good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, syndic. The last time I had the pleasure of seeing you, the syndic of the half of the Chamber, of the half of the Catalans, of that half that has applauded you while the other half did not applaud you, just as it happens here with our Speaker of the Parliament... President of the Parliament of the half of the Catalans, syndic of the half of the Catalans. [[Greetings.]] As I was telling you, in June you presented a shameful report – biased, pro-government, pro-rocé – which said it was a human rights report. From June to October many things have happened in Catalonia. Mr Syndic, there has been a shameful use of the institutions since June. Two very important laws have been passed in this Chamber illegally: the referendum and the transitional legislation. We have had Parliament paralysed: since July we haven't talked about health, education, employment or anything else that isn't going on. We have witnessed during those months, since June that you were until now, the rise and fall of the process, the absolute failure of the process, with a unilateral declaration of independence in this very Parliament, that we live it on 27 October. At that time, since June, Catalan society has been fractured, violence has been used in the streets, and here it has not been intended to condemn, in the middle of the Chamber, the use of violence in the streets. And you bring us this report on the 1st of October. Well, then, around October 1st, I'm going to tell you four things we've seen, about your report. See, on page 7 you dedicate a paragraph to the irregularities that occurred in the adoption of the referendum law in this Chamber. You don't want me to read it to you, do you? ; is a paraphyte of just eight lines. Well, look, I'll tell you what happened in this Parliament on the 6th and 7th. In this Parliament, the opposition was silenced; we were left without access to the procedures and regulatory guarantees; secret laws that had been in a box for months were passed; the right to amend was restricted; we were prevented from going to the Council of State Guarantees; the rules were adopted without sufficient votes; an electoral board was appointed. And so you tell the prosecutor's office, the Supreme, the Constitutional, the Government of Spain..., here you comment on the king's speech; but in your report you say that the issues of Parliament, which is a political and deliberative chamber, are not within your competence. (Applause.) You – you –, Mr Syndic of the Process, who is the eye that sees everything, are blind and deaf to all that is the Process. Because you're the syndic of the process, you're not the syndic of the people. Miri..., on his page 9, when he is denounced, through various channels and with many complaints, the use of the classrooms, the politicization of the classrooms, the indoctrination... Look, I have eighty photos( l'orador shows a few fulls), but on the network you can find the hundreds... Look, do you see these barracks, that we are the autonomous community with the most barracks in Spain? So they have a pamphlet on the supposed mortification of democracy. Well, then, you, how do you address these multiple complaints of hostage parents from an educational system that you cannot point out in order not to be pointed out to them and their families and subject to mobbing? What do you do? (Applause.) Are you going to the Ponsati Counsellor? Are you going to the government? No, no, He tells the directors to look – to look – for children not to be subjected to actions that may involve politicization. But is it that there is no government or council, Mr. Heavyweight Syndic? Are you not to protect citizens from the abuse of the administration? Why is such a serious eight - line topic sent out to say that this is the subject of the directors? But it's just that you, with that... that's what you do in many other things. Look, for example – for example – at the complaints that there have been about the convening of an illegal referendum and the illegal use of data from all Catalans, what do you do? Is he going to the presidency? Is he going to government? Do you ask President Puigdemont, or anyone else, for explanations? No, he sends it to the Data Protection Agency, of course! [[Greetings.]] When he doesn't like it, he doesn't defend us from the administration, the syndic doesn't defend us from the abusive administration, no. Because, look, for example: the partiality of TV3. During the election campaign, he was subjected to a number of corrections by the electoral board because of his lack of bias; even journalists' unions have said so. How does the subject come to light, how does the sindic lord kill the subject? Does it say anything to competent politicians? No, politicians, no. It takes it to the CAC and the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, which are the same. [[Greetings.]] And that's it! You get rid of – get rid of – the issues. Now, that yes, you have no competence to see, to demand explanations of anything to the Ministry of the Interior, to the prosecution, or to the judges... But you are going to investigate the alleged excesses in the police charges of October 1st; that does not happen to anyone, that does not happen to the courts or to the Ministry of the Interior. You are only paying attention to half the population, to those who agree with you, to those who play the game to you, to those who put it to you. [[Greetings.]] And what to say – we only have ten_minutes, not half an hour, like you – on page 18, in which you make an affectionate apology to your friend and former second on board in the defender of the village, Mr Jordi Sànchez. You make a legal analysis and excuse, as a defender of the people, all that you have been accused of to Mr Jordi Sànchez. To your friend, the one who was with you in the union and then went to the ANC but made a not entirely clean jump, because he was president of the ANC and second of you, assistant of the syndic, two months. And we also asked the Pompeu Fabra University to give us all the details of why Mr. Jordi Sànchez charged eight_thousand« napos per month from the Pompeu Fabra Foundation. [[Greetings.]] And I don't know if you'll know anything about that, about that jump to Pompeu Fabra charging eight_thousand_euritos a month, while Catalan students have the highest rates in Europe. Of course, they're spending it on the little friends in the process. [[Widow's remorse.]] What things does the syndic not denounce? We've talked about some of those that you report, what don't you report? Well, the use of everyone's money to make illegal referendums, declared illegal. "It is that the Conselleria d'Economia and the escorts to the parties and all this, such..., was ordered by judges who were looking for the money they stole from all Catalans to make an illegal referendum. Those escorcolls, those entries and records, that, when his friend surrounded the Economics headquarters to prevent him from going out to a judicial commission..., they were looking for evidence of the use of the money of all Catalans to pay their referendum. [[Greetings.]] All right, you're the defender of the people, and it seems to you that the complaints or whatever about... well, and the Government of the Generalitat doesn't deserve any criticism? Those who spent our money, don't they deserve criticism? I just haven't seen them in your report. Are they? They're not, are they? Because you didn't want to criticize them. Look, more things that have not come out in your report: the lack of neutrality of the public buildings owned by the Generalitat; the massive use of data from all Catalans; the display of symbolism in schools; the attempt by the General Information Commissioner of the Mossos d'Esquadra to hide the things of the process; the political strike of October 1 with government support; the coercion of officials to jail Mas or to collaborate with the referendum; or the episode of that mayor who told the local police: "You listen to me and you don't listen to the judge; those commitments for officials; harassment of non-nationalist students in universities; the statement of people who are not grateful in the city halls, that their friends like them very much and you don't mention them. [[applause]] You don't defend the people you claim to be a non-grateful person, you don't. In conclusion, Mr Ribó, to finish: you are a gear more of the process machinery; you are a nut; you are a toothed wheel; you are a lever; you are a leg more of all this; you are like the ANC; you are like the CAC; you are like the embassies; you are like TV3; you are another leg more of the process, Mr Ribó. If those of us who are not separatists have to expect you to defend us, we are tied up, Mr Ribó – we are tied up. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Ribó, you have come today, here, at your request...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.202.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.203.0	...of separatism. I ended up in a minute... in nothing, in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.204.0	Not for a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.205.0	Ten seconds. You have come here today at the request of separatism to explain what the process leaders have wanted you to explain. You're not a defender of the people, you're a defender of the process. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.206.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. It's the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. There's a word from Mr. Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.207.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, citizens who accompany us, today is the first intervention I've done since this Faristol and I have to confess that I'm hitting her. Hit, first, by the emptiness of the companies that can't be here and that should be here and that are busy – and I take advantage of the fact that as soon as they are released better, the ones that are here and the ones that aren't – but also hit by the speech that just came before me. We're a people's sun. There is a Catalonia_sole. On the street live coexistence and normality. This political fracture that is expressed here today in this room, frankly, is not seen in the street. [[Widow's remorse.]] The one you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.208.0	Please, take it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.209.0	...the one you live from the fracture. And that's why they're interested in feeding her, the fracture. [[Greetings.]] We have to work to be a people's sun, to make a people's sun. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I would like to thank and congratulate the work done for the syndic and all of his team, for the follow-up they are taking to monitor the respect of rights and freedoms, and in particular for the events that occurred around October 1, for which it does the violation of rights and freedoms and the effects of the repression exercised by the State during that day and the days before and after, because this is not over. This is a job, that of the union, which helps us a lot to know the size of the conflict, but also to explain the truth of..., and to clarify facts that the public reports are often confused. Today, El Mundo puts in full possession that the Civil Guard believes 315 violent acts of the process, when on October 1st we know that the violent acts multiplied by five times this figure: the world backwards. The reference of '1 October, frankly, marks a time and a time in Catalan politics as well as in Spanish, and after the later events of these days, it will probably also have a European dimension. The Catalan cause is no longer just an internal issue. October 1 was the day that the Catalans were able to vote whether or not we wanted to be an independent state in the form of a republic. And we were over two million who did it, under the pressure of a huge police repression. That day, the repression of the State faced a longing and a desire for democracy, and democracy won. That's what happened and that's what he doesn't forgive. The celebration of the referendum responds to the will of a majority of this parliamentary chamber compromised with its electorate, after exhausting all the initiatives – the big word – of "dialeg that there was in order to be able to dialogue with the State". Two don't talk if one doesn't want to. And that's the problem: two don't talk if one doesn't want to. How many times in this room has a call been made to the state dialog to resolve what we saw as a possible first-class political conflict? But the State did not return to the table to speak to resolve this conflict. The prohibition, on the part of the Constitutional Court, of the referendum's summons assumed that the citizenry is its pledge to promote the organization of the referendum. So October 1 turned into a collection of thousands of anonymous people who made it possible. The reference to it was the people, it's people's heritage. In fact, people were the ones who defended the choices because they could vote. People were the ones who carried the ballot boxes because they could vote. The people were the ones who carried the logistics because it was possible to realize. The reference was people's collectible heritage. In fact, together for Catalonia we felt children of '1 October. We identify ourselves with the values and with the objectives of that date. October 1 was a collective experience of republican unity of thousands of people. A life that we will not forget and a compromise for the republic loaded with values: fraternity, resistance, resilience, cooperation, determination, democracy, pacifism, freedom. In fact, the 1st of October opens up a way of hope and that's why it marks one before and one after. But, certainly, October 1 has the other side of the coin: the face of the repression of the State, which is very well reflected and summarized in the report of the Greuges Synod. The same report mentions the perils that are detected to make a usher of justice – which is what is happening – and of the erosion of the separation of powers. In this sense, I want to take advantage of the support of the Mayor of Girona, Marta Madrenas, because today Mr. Millo has entered the prosecution with a complaint for making statements in a public act on the street. The word's already a complaint to the D.A.'s office. [[Greetings.]] This is a difficult time for democracy. Let's disrupt politics, bring justice policy, please. September 20th was when all the repressive offensive that marked October 1st began: arrests of high offices of the Generality; escorts to councils; prosecution of seven hundred mayors; threats; prohibitions; escorts to printing houses, to private cases; undertakings of people who have not done anything wrong. Frankly, the State has come to terms. He has embarked on a fight against an idea of a collection of more than 2 million people. It has come up against the idea of building a republic, peacefully and democratically. The images of the national police and the Civil Guard wrongly and directly targeted defenceless people with the aim of suppressing the voting exercise have been grotesque and very painful images that have turned the world around and unmasked and filled the democratic deficit of the Spanish State; a state that does not care to put in crisis the fulcrum of the state of law. It is the effects of repression that alter democratic normality. Those of us who fill our mouths with democratic normality should bear in mind that the normal today would be to have the President of General Carles Puigdemont here as president, because he likes the majority of Parliament that he wants to invest. And, in change, that's not possible. Certainly, this – October 1st – is a political cause, exercised by the judiciary of the State, that contains hundreds of people affected, threatened for various crimes for Criminal Code, with social leaders and politicians in prison. Freedom and fundamental human rights are hardly threatened. The State is making a blatantly political use of justice. Let me qualify as I think I qualify a lot of people, or so I feel a lot of people: this is a cause of a state against the dignity of a people who want to be free. That is why the legal defence of the October 1 parties is also a political, collective and vindictive defence of which it was defended and won the ballots: dignity, democracy, the desire to be political subject, the right to be able to build a future for our people, for the citizens of the country, which we want to remain in the form of a republic. The cause of '1 October is causing a lot of pain, it is certain, too much pain, but we are sure that we will win it, because we are convinced that from fraternity, from coexistence, from respect to differences, but also from freedom, this battle, this conflict we will overcome and win. I also want to give support to two squad movements that accompanied President Puigdemont, who were detained at the Barcelona airport when they arrived here at home. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.210.0	The words of Ms. Adriana Delgado, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.211.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies, deputies, syndicates and everyone who comes with us, good afternoon. Well, first of all, I'd like to have a few words of support and solidarity with prisoners and political pressures and partners in exile, and, obviously, therefore, to demand their freedom, and also to bring all their esteem and strength to their families. Well, from the outset, a thank you to the syndic for the explanations of the report; a thank you, which comes from this parliamentary area, of dialogue and respect for the other Catalan institutions. There is an unquestionable main conclusion, whether it pleases or does not please the rest of the Members, and it is that there was a disproportion in the performance of the Spanish State's security forces and bodies, on 1 October, about people who peacefully defend the right to vote, because it involves a violation of the phonenal rights of millions of people who spoke at the polls or who wanted to do so and did not have power. The October 1st, 2017, will pass to the history of Catalonia because of the shame of a repressive Spanish state, which exercised a harsh violence before an absolutely defenceless citizenry; but above all we would remember it because of the civic, serene, courageous, peaceful and persistent attitude of citizens who came out to vote and exercise democracy despite threats and por. The 1st of October 2017 will be a day that will last for years, and it will be so for the people, for the people who made it possible for the referendum to be played, all of them, and all the freedom and not being able to see their children raised; for the people who participated in it; for the people who defended and peacefully resisted before police repression, seated on the ground, with their hands on the ground, singing "L'Estaca"; for the people who rose from the floor when they saw the images of violence and directed themselves to the electoral colleges to help in what they needed; and for the people who defended the right to decide on the Catalans, who ultimately defended democracy, who defended even the physical integrity of their lives. And before this worthy attitude the Spanish State responded disproportionately, as the syndic's report says. At the gates of the electoral colleges, on the street, in the squares, in front of the polls, the violence against the veins and veins of our peoples and cities, which we wanted to decide and exercise democracy, caused more than a thousand injuries and the violation of fundamental rights. The images of aggression, repression without contemplation and violence, which were also seen in international media, do not lead to oblivion. In Sant Vicenç, in Bages, which is sociable, as in the territory, during the first hours of voting we saw horrified police charges and wounded in images sent to us by the companies of Castellgali, Sant Joan de Vilatorrada, Callús, Fonollosa, as it also happened in so many other municipalities of Catalonia. And now, paradoxically, they are mayors and governors of these gatherings who are being persecuted for justice. How do you feel about that? The world upside down, which was just before Congressman Morral. All we had left was one option: to continue to respect the enormous dignity and democratic compromise of the citizens of Catalonia and their political institutions that legitimately and legally organized the referendum; a reference that was possible thanks to the conjunction between the institutions and the people. It was a unique and unforgivable day, we felt and felt deeply proud of our lives, their civic, peaceful and solidary attitude. We made history and, above all, despite repression, we won, because we were able to vote. It was spectacular from time to time, until the last hour of diumenge, to see the compromise and responsibility shared between many people to make it possible for the electoral councils to remain open and that the people voted for, as I said, despite all the impediments and images of repression and brutality that came from the poor. With all dignity, we stood still, defended democracy and our rights as citizens, and made it possible for people of all ages, different origins and mother tongues, different ideological bases and different characters, organizing us, participating, collaborating, making possible what seemed impossible. Above all, it was obvious the ability to organize and mobilize us, to defend our rights civically, to refer us and to weave complicitys to keep us raised. This is the 1st of October experience. But the syndic's report went beyond '1 October,' he also refers to, and the syndic's explained it, in anticipation of the celebration of the referendum, the numerous violations of the freedom of expression and assembly, the lack of proportionality in the actions of the Ministry of Finance, the intervention of the Generality's accounts, the arrests of various political groups and escorts, and the fines to members of the electoral union, among others. And, after the reference, as we know, unfortunately we are following the regression of rights and freedoms, the judicialization as a response to legitimate political conflicts, the non-separation of powers, the drift of partyists from the judicial organs, the arrest for the Jordis – Jordi Sánchez, Jordi Cuixart –, the application of Article 155, the criminal charge against the government dismissed and the members of the Bureau, as has already been referred to. And to all that which already backs the report, therefore, we can already add the undertakings and exiles of the Oriol, the Quim, the Jordi, the Josep, the Raül, the Carme, the Pain, the Carles, the Meritxell and the Lluís, the Clara, the Toni, the Anna and the Marta. That's why in these difficult, complex, exceptional times, now more than ever, we have to recover the experience of '1 October: the extraordinary situation that institutions have fostered guaranteeing the referendum and the citizenry defending the ballot box. This is the hope that we should take into account and that we should preserve, that it went beyond what he voted for, which, because above the box marked to the paper, there is the peaceful defense of democracy, freedoms and individual and collective rights. And that's where we came from and the origin of this legislature. Esquerra's guide has always been the same: democracy. Because without democracy there will be no republic, without the construction of the republic we will not consolidate democratic values and freedoms. There is no future from this demophobic state, and every day there are more people than you see. And it is absolutely necessary to articulate a broad anti-repression front against the institutional violence of the Spanish State against Catalonia. Given the unjust and repressive state situation and the threat against democracy, as the syndic's report says, human rights and freedom of speech must be respected. And that there is a united, massive and peaceful response to defend individual and collective freedoms and rights. I do not want to finish my intervention without giving thanks again to whom he organized, to whom he participated and to whom he peacefully defended democracy in Catalonia on October 1. Since we've listened to the syndic's report back, and as much as it bites those who don't agree with it, we'll reconvene and thank the behavior of more than two million people who wanted to express themselves in the polls. Its courage, compromised and strengthened exercising the right to vote, opposing peaceful resistance, sided with the people who wanted to vote and did not fall into the provocation of the Spanish security forces, under a state of por, are the reflection of a mature, plural, peaceful and fully democratic society. Deia Leonard Cohen: "Sometimes you know what kind of song you're just looking at who's in the other band. So if the other gang has a repressive state that wants to prevent us from deciding our future, that wants to prevent us from voting, we need to be on the side of democracy, ras and short. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.212.0	Thank you, Mrs. Delgado. Now it's the turn of the lady taking Escarp, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.213.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, I will talk about the report; I will talk about the report that the syndic has presented to us, that there are some other interventions that have not done so. I really want to. And before I go in... and thank you for your presentation, I'd like to make a good point. Today we do not see the annual report, which is what we should see in this plenary, but a specific report of the actions that the Greuges Synod does around October 1, all the while when we talk about this day in the same report there is only a page dedicated to explain that it will open an office investigation into the performance of the objects and movements, and the rest of the report is a detail of the facts before and after this day and the syndic's own actions. I want to assume that it's this motive, not to have yet this concrete report that the syndic also told us in his intervention, what do you mean..., that it seems that the syndic had asked not to make this intervention today only when you have the most complete report. Therefore, we only have to think that today and in this House we had to incorporate this report, that today and in this House, after the proposals for the resolution of the morning, we need to put the report of the union around the day of '1 October; a Ple, today, which I believe will not help reconciliation or the dialogue, but also the need for a government that allows us to regain self-government in Catalonia. The syndic calls in various parts of the report to the need of the political dialogue, offers even its mediation, one of the tasks assigned to the union, its mediation, but today, and also if it has been in the morning, you can see how it costs us to talk to ourselves to try to talk face to face, right? ; as it costs us to talk to those who think differently, because unfortunately everyone thinks of the defeat of others and there will be no victory with the defeat of the half of the country. And let me inform you, all your report, in your four quarters, describe and value and talk about consequences – consequences – ; consequences of which are the actions of the Ministry of Finance, the arrests of political prisoners, the intervention of the Generality, 155, the day of '1 October. It's the consequences of some causes and a cause that you don't care about in the report, which is missing, huh? ; cause that it is the breach of legality, the violation of the rights of the 6th and 7th of September, the repetition of not meeting the requirements of the letters of the chamber or of the Council of State Guarantees or of the same Constitutional Court – we have all seen photos as if they were a prize for the requirements that it is worth – it is the decision to call a unilateral and illegal reference, and it is also the cause of the lack of political response in the disability of dialogue of the Government of the People's Party. And, in this sense, it eludes making esment, the report, the responsibilities that lie ahead, the causes, and, therefore, the ones that have brought us these difficult consequences. Following this thread, the report starts from the finding of irregularities, you yourself said, that it was produced in the approval of the laws of the referendum and of legal transitionality on 6 and 7 September. But you have not done anything..., which continues in your justifiable report, say: "Irregularities which can surely be explained, among others, by constitutional jurisprudence, which prevents and immediately suspects any parliamentary processing resulting from resolutions of political impulses of a sovereign character. I'll see the heavyweight syndic justify the breach of legality. They still refer to these irregularities, and I believe that someone who has also said to me has said it, does not fail to point out that if the law regulating the creation of the union is to protect and defend the rights and constitutional and statutory freedoms and the rights and freedoms of the citizenry, it resolves the complaint of the members of the Socialist Group, who have shown respect for the violation of their rights, with a conscience: "Parliament and its debates remain outside its powers, when in the previous paragraph we do not seem to say so. The first part of the report describes the actions, positioning, of the union in the events prior to the day of '1 October. And it is the result of a recent report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in which it states that the issues of self-determination must be able to be dealt with and resolved by means of a peaceful dialogue – here, all agree – democratic, but above all respect for the state of law. It is surprising, therefore, that with these references, then, in the report, there are such strong statements respecting the same state of law, about the lack of proportionality of the Ministry of the Tax, of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Catalonia. In the end, we place all the institutions, all the guarantee organs, in the picota. The syndic understands that the use of the criminal way is inadequate – and it is true that it is the last resort – for the control of legality respects the celebration of a referendum; a referendum that, if it was agreed, a referendum that was not illegal, a referendum that was not made on the basis of a suspicious law, would enter into the definition that you did, not what was done and called. I share – I share –, and I will say it quickly, one of the things the syndic says respects the performance of the juvenile prosecution on possible indoctrinations. The syndic recalls that the political or ideological positioning of the direction of the teacher body, of the members of the educational community of a school, in relation to the socio-political situation of the country or in a certain political situation, must not involve the studentship. I appreciate this reference, because I think it's important at these times. He goes on and makes a statement about the events prior to '1 October, talking about irregularities and excesses, closing... that passed on 20 and 21 September to the Department of Economics, made under judicial authority and that they are under judicial control and, therefore, they will already resolve. Only one point on the subject of economic intervention. For the drafting of the report, it is true that you say that under a ministerial order it could not be done, but it almost seems to call for the application of Article 155, as it is actually then. As I said to the initiator of my intervention, the report dedicates only one page to the day of '1 October. Therefore, we suppose that we will know more in advance, in the full report, not only the questions that the syndic made about the police charges, who was in charge, what orders they had, but we will also know whether it was pressured or not the mayors of our towns and cities because they left locals because they could be used on October 1st; we will also know if the locals of the primary care centres were to be delayed for the fact that they were used or pretended to be used as polling stations; we will also know if they were misused. We expect this report to be as complete as it is because we feel it all folded... everything. Because the day of October 1st was more of a failure of politics. We went through an unacceptable and disproportionate police action, which he wanted to prevent by force an important citizen mobilization – and in this case coincided with the syndic – when the interlocutory of the TSJ said: "without affecting the normal citizen coexistence. Here there is a great irresponsibility, that of the People's Party and that of its leaders, who, victims of their own words about the non-celebration of the referendum, ended up giving improvised orders and with poorly planned operations, and thus was recriminated to Minister Zoido, when he added to the improvisation the incompetence and had the worst result: the people voted, legitimized a referendum that did not have legal validity, making a use of the non-proportional force, and they even made the crossing of coexistence in Catalonia worse. We will, however, need to know the role of each of the bodies in complimenting the judicial resolution, and the coordination mechanisms, if they exist. There are political responsibilities behind these actions, but there are also in keeping with the celebration of a unilateral referendum, as in order to prevent it by force. The use of force on the part of a police force is legitimate; disproportion does not fit, and therefore it is necessary to know who gave the political orders. The syndic has also pronounced himself in the analysis of events after '1 October on the application of Article 155, which they surprise, because he makes a very preventive warning about the risk of misadministration and potential violation of rights. Home, it's very good to do the follow-up, but previously... I thought we were against preventive things. In any case, I would like to aggravate, finally, the syndic's criticisms of the political dialogue. We share that our democracy must gain in quality, but this does not distort the necessary respect for legality, the defence of the rule of law, the existence of separation of powers and respect for the guarantee body. Sometimes I think we forget him, and sometimes he forgets in his report. I'd like to feel in the proper report that the heavyweight syndic is also my syndic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.214.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can. It's the return for Mr. Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.215.0	Thank you, President. I want to dedicate my first words in this legislature to those who are not, to political prisoners and exiles, people so different from us, but to whom we regard so much. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] I'd like to thank the syndic and all his team who appeared here today in Parliament. We don't know about the syndic's plenary appearances, even though we have a syndic's commission, which is on many occasions the mark in which we value and estimate the union's work. Because today we are presenting a report on October 1, but we could perfectly be discussing a report on security policies and terrorist radicalization processes, or we could also be discussing the right policies of childhood and adolescence. So, syndicate, don't surprise me that reviews and applause change the bandol, because sometimes that happens. You're the syndic of everyone, and we all have to work with the syndic, regardless of whether sometimes what the syndic says pleases us and sometimes doesn't. I have listened to political leaders from previous governments in Catalonia criticise the syndic deeply, because it makes sharp reports against government management. And the opposition put the boats down, used these reports to build his critical report, and then the syndic was a hero. But today, for some, the syndic is, as was said before, a mechanism of the process. But what are we staying at? The syndic's reports serve to criticize the government and, when the syndic says things that we don't like, do we have to tray the syndic? I think we're wrong, I think we need to remember the institutional role of the union. We should not do this, but this country will not work if we do not return to the institutions of our own self-government. The Greuges Synod is one of the most important institutions of democratic control with which Catalonia's self-government counts. It is an independent institution of the government, and of the parliament, which is the one that evaluates it, and also the gift of presumption. Their reports respond strictly to the defence of the fundamental rights and public freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia before any public authority. These reports may please the government whether they come back or not, and the opposition can always find plenty of material to develop its control pocket. Their reports sometimes give reason or lead to certain policy approaches, but we need to know how to embrace the hard and the mature, strengthen or not our report. And I think, again, that we should not have remembered this, but now it must be remembered. And, it is true, the union, since the month of April, denounces setbacks in the matter of human rights, freedom of expression of elected officials and lack of separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain, and the commission of the syndic in July debated it. Because, it is true, the standards of civil rights and internationally recognized policies have been eroded from those treaties which, like the Kingdom of Spain is not a signatory, are bound to complete, and cannot make a parenthesis. And, moreover, he has also alerted a usher of justice, coupled with a growing judicialization of the political debate respect of Catalonia, which erodes the separation of powers and limitations to freedom of expression, especially of elected bodies. The syndic informs us of tasks carried out between September 15 and November 2. I will not quote them; they are plentiful, and we will follow, possibly... because Catalan politics, unfortunately, remains installed in these furs. But yes on three themes, three you will comment, very brief. First one, October 1st. It was a historic day; as the Ovidi said, a day that will last for years. That's right. Especially for those of us who were at school, defend them, painted for whether the Civil Guard or the National Police came to break out. Some didn't get so lucky and found it face to face. And, therefore, these potentialities of '1 October are on this hemisphere, also for our parliamentary group, but we are also aware of the limitations of '1 October, and if we do not see them we would be wrong, because this hemisphere also reminds us of them. And obviously the crackdown on state police is a black page that can't go unpunished, but the use, company and company, of October 1 to give mechanical continuity to policies that don't have enough social support is a hard political mistake. Therefore, October 1 has various cares; read it, I repeat, respects its potentialities, but also respects what was not October 1. Obviously, the application of Article 155, Clarissim, our parliamentary group has brought it to the Constitutional Court. We think that a clearly unconstitutional application has been made in some of its aspects. First, because it had never developed, and the PP government, to put it mildly, developed it in a creative way. And, therefore, yes, we believe that we are under an unconstitutional development of 155. And, besides, and third place, obviously, is the whole issue of criminal charges. The Government of Catalonia, from the Bureau of Parliament, deputies and deputies elected, social leaders, high offices of the Government, mayors of Catalonia... It has been realized, without any doubt, an abuse of the preventive prison, and it has been done, a criminalization of political ideas that under democracy must be able to express freely, and more in a parliamentary chamber. I want to end with two quotes. One, the syndic quoted it; I also pointed it out. Criminal law is governed by the principles of minimum and proportional intervention. And what this report tells us is that October 1st, after October 1st and before October 1st, there was no proportionality. And not that I've proportionalized..., we'll pay a high political cost if we don't go back to the kingdoms of democracy, if we keep thinking that judges can do politics in Catalonia. Let politics go on and on and on we talk politics quiet the judges. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.216.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. It's the return to Mr. Vidal Aragones.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.217.0	President, syndic, deputies, parliamentary workers and workers in the Parliament and people of Catalonia, the state of law does not disappear to want to build another state. The state of right is eliminated by not guaranteeing the rights of speech and by giving an answer, the same state, which is disrespectful to the dignity of people. What the Spanish State has done in the past few months has been an authentic flight from the right state, and this is derived not only from the conclusions of the syndic's report, but simply from the facts that place the syndic's report. The repressive response that the Spanish State gives phonentally – and I will be redundant – to phonental rights. It is said to the syndic's report how now we simply meet to discuss the situation in Catalonia have been banned. This means breaking the right of freedom of expression and the right of assembly. A concrete fact such as the fact that the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans is informed of an agreement of the plethora of the Constitutional Court for which it is prohibited to report on any agreement that allows the preparation of the reference. That's not what the syndic says, we say it expressly, it's in an indirect way... Obviously, it's also a violation of the right to freedom of information. And what all of us should be very clear about, what is the great violation of the Spanish State's action on ideological freedom and political freedom, what happens as of September 20, 2017 with the arrest of fourteen senior members of the Government, the subsequent arrest of representatives of sovereignist organizations, representatives of thousands of people, and, above all, the interlocutory of March 23rd, that what is supposed to be acting in the most repressive way simply to make politics against independence, and, above all, with regard to someone who is not even so independent but the only thing that he wants is that in this Parliament he can do politics. This, since the CUP - Creed Constituent, we have named it, as it cannot be otherwise, "Causa General Catalunya ; "Causa General Catalunya which, moreover, in its own legal development, goes to express other violations of phonenal rights. And with regard to what the syndic was proposing, as a follow-up to a new report, we'd like to share some ideas with him. First of all: if the Supreme Court's knowledge of a judicial point of view regarding the trial of a party succeeds in Catalonia, it is violating the principle of the right to the pre-determined court of law, because it would have to be the competence of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. And the second idea: if in one of the centralities of repressive action is the crime of rebellion, this crime in certain types needs violence, and all of us can see as any of those who were object to the process of the past divendres has had absolutely a single act of violence, all men and women. Obviously, it would be over, if you had condemned it through this type, with the principle of typicality. He also talks to us, the report of the Synod of Greuges, about the events that took place on October 1. We characterise it in a very strong and very clear way: indiscriminate income collection. That's what October 1 meant. We also say... – as for repressive action, obviously – we also say that we have been pleased that in the report, and we have given it with all humility, there is more development of the concrete action that the police took without any justification, violent action without any right-thinking and without any action that they have taken in the principles of police action. We would also introduce the syndicate so that we could look deeper into the practice of double gender discrimination that women suffered on October 1. We saw it see and we saw it denigrate women in a double way because they were women. And we also want, in this explanation about the authentic flight of the right state, to explain what has been done and what has not been done by the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. It has accompanied, for one band, repressive action with all its virulence, but, for another band, it has incomplete with what is its function, which is legality, the rights of the citizenry and public interest. We're still waiting for the Ministry of Public Prosecutions to act in some way on what happened in the October 1st police rape. No kind of action. And finally, yes, we wanted, also, to fix in a very quick way what quantitatively means the application of article 155 and October 1: 196 people ceased, 23 organizations suppressed, 71 legislative initiatives paralyzed, 120 people investigated criminally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.218.0	Mr. Aragonese...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.219.0	I'm done, President. Seven hundred and twelve mayors investigated and 1,066 injured people – 1,066 injured people who still, in this chamber, there are those who have not condemned this violence. All this is the machine of the Spanish state apparatus with maximum virulence, the structural always increased as the answer to the democratic right. And if, of course, the Spanish State and its courts end up condemning Catalonia in the general proceedings, we say that this can never be found in the law. And if the justification is the emperor in the law, we want to remember the words of a Puerto Rican independenceist, Pedro Albizu, who said: "When tyranny is law, revolution is order. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.220.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. It's Mr. Santi Rodriguez's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.221.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here today to talk about the syndic's book. I'm sure we'll touch on other issues, but I think the fundamental element of this debate that we're doing here today is the report..., this synopsis report-synthesis of the syndic with regard to October 1 and everything that surrounds October 1. I would like to remind you - here..., basically allow me to remind you, to the syndic, to what says Article 2 of the Law of the syndic, that is that its performance must be carried out with impartiality, objectivity and independence. Certainly, the functions of the Synod of Greuges are established to the same law, in article 1, as well as the same syndic recognized, is also in the Statute, that its fundamental role is to protect and defend constitutional and statutory rights and freedoms – constitutional and statutory freedoms. And as the time I have is shorter, I will limit myself to using a _only example that seems paradigmatic to what happens in this report that the syndic presents to us today. And, moreover, it is an example that does not refer to our parliamentary group, it refers to another parliamentary group. And I mean, precisely, with regard to what happened in this very Parliament on the 6th and 7th of September, which precisely when we talk about statutory and constitutional freedoms is when the Constitution was called upon, the Statute was called upon and the Rules of Parliament were called upon, there was a parliamentary group that addressed the Synod of Greuges to ask for his job and defence to defend his rights, the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And that's what the syndic says with a single line in his report: "Ep! The Parliament of Catalonia is not of my competence. Oh, my God! , and one, who reads his report, you must say: "Well, of the Synod of Greuges of Catalonia, the Parliament is not its competence, but it is the Attorney General of the State, the Supreme Prosecutor of Catalonia, the Prosecutor of Minors, the State's security forces and bodies, the coordination of police units, the Ministry of the Interior, the Government of the State, the National Court and the Supreme Court! Oh, my God! Man, syndic! You don't have to be the syndic of people anymore, you have to be the syndic of the universe. [[relays]] I'm sorry, of the universe except Parliament. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? So, the sooner I get the feeling that I'm a syndic of the independence universe. And you report to the service of a political project, which is the political project of independence. And you in this report do not take into account that there are Catalans that we also have rights to be on the side of the law, to be on the side of the Statute and to be on the side of the Constitution. You don't take that into account! And it speaks of '1 of October as if the reference of '1 of October was a normal and current reference. And he talks to us about the Venice Commission in relation to the Law of the Constitutional Court and insists that the same Venice Commission says that "the reference of October 1st, as far as it does not agree with the Spanish Constitution, is not a legal reference. Does it not take into account the right of Catalans who want the resources we pay to be dedicated to teaching, sanitation, social aid instead of violating laws or illegal acts? Do they only have the rights of members of an illegal electoral union and not members of a judicial committee who develop their own pocket? Don't they have the right politicians, journalists, lawyers or civic entities who have been spying on the moves following political instructions? Aren't they worthy of the syndic's attention these people or their rights? Aren't they worthy to value the syndic? Don't they have the right Catalans who have usurped our personal data to make illegal censuses? Or to get illegal tax data? Have there been any openings of offices for the use of public resources for an illegal reference? Deia..., I felt Mr. Morral saying: "There is no fracture! It's not true, there's no fracture! Mr Morral, out of the independence demonstrations, out of the independence barricades, pass'sel llaç e accompani, for example, any governor of the People's Party in the territory or go to his/her of the PSC of Sant Sadurní, where the glass is pierced, and then they will feel in the plenary as the directors of the CUP say to them: "Hey, and give thanks that we are pacifists. With the complicit silence of the mayor of Sant Sadurní d'Anoia, of Esquerra Republicana. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't tell a lie. Don't tell a lie because your father allowed it. They'll let me finish... [[Greetings.]] Sindic, miri, cregui'm, sorry to have to say but at this moment only...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.222.0	Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.223.0	I just got right away, Mr. President. At this point, we only expect one thing from you and it is that you present your resignation, as it was better, in order to try to regain the credibility of the institution that you are still chairing today; above all taking into account one thing: in Catalonia we are not 2_millions, in Catalonia we are 7_millions_i_mig of Catalans, which often seems to forget a lot of people, many deputies in this Parliament, and also the syndicate. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.224.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. There's a new word for the syndic for maximum space of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.225.0	Thank you, President. Something I said in my intervention did not feel or did not take into account. I said that I came here to ask for the Board of Spokesmen, warning that there is a very extensive report, a lot of answers from the administrations, that I hope that a few weeks from now I can have and we can do a much more detailed discussion of some things that have come up. We are also about to discuss social emergency habitats, summer weather, issues affecting children and the Geneva Commission, the Torture Mechanism, the theme..., the 2017 Annual Report. Or so, I'm talking to them about everything we've been producing and Members and Members of all groups have followed, starting with Citizens, who bring us, and a lot, to the syndic to improve our work. And I dedicate a lot of heart and reason to them, without which, this relationship, this institution could not work. You do what you do, especially taking into account that in the 2017 Report you see that there are sixty thousand people, with concrete and punctual problems. Isha invented the process? Sixty thousand people! It must be borne in mind that the first mandate I have the honour to hold in this institution is given for a mandate signed for all parliamentary groups of students, except Convergence and Union. The Republican Left sign, the Socialists, Initiative, the People's Party. And the only parliamentary group that doesn't propose me as the mad syndic Convergence and Union. Under the parliamentary mandate, I have the honor to say that they all sign it: from Ciutadans to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Then, if you wish, Mr Carrizosa, I will show you the signature of the Ciutadans Group in the session diary. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.226.0	Mr. Carrizosa, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.227.0	If you give me two more minutes, I'll read to Mr. Carrizosa what you're denying with your statements, if that's what I find, because, as you can understand, it seems to me to be an absolutely lesser aspect, but how he fits in with it... We're talking about what happens in 2010, when the proposal is raised in the House of Commons – it doesn't matter what you read – that the server is being proposed as a candidate, signed for all groups, including the Mixt, where there is the signature of the deputy of the Citizens' Group and identifies with Grupo Ciutadans. Mr. Carrizosa, the secret crazy vote – and I shouldn't talk to you – and I don't know. If you're telling me... so, look, you're giving me data that I didn't have, huh? [[Greetings.]] In any case, I want to say, to all present, that if you want to use an argument that is absolutely unidirectional, that is used in the background. Is Mr Nils Muižnieks, European Commissioner for Human Rights, also in the process? Is the United Nations High Commission also in the process? Do you want me to continue the list, because I've made it remotely, of all the documents that this syndic brings back to international people? Is the collectivity of all the defenders of Europe, who choose – and forgive that I don't have to – whom he talks to as president during two terms to preside over all the defenders of Europe, also supporting the process? Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into many of the things that have been said, despite the fact that some have said themselves without any knowledge of what is explained in the report. There is only one that has hurt me very much: that a person is quoted who is not present and who is in Soto del Real, closed for a crime absolutely disproportionate and unjust. [[Greetings.]] A person who makes it real – and thought that it would never make it real anyone – for many years now, those of a song by a great friend of mine, who is said Raimon: "We have seen imprisoned men full of reason, and this is the situation. And I'm very sorry because, if you want to press charges against someone, and more if you're someone who's in prison, you'll immediately have to bring evidence. And if they're the caliber that's said, the first one to investigate is what he's talking about. Otherwise, apart from the injustice of accusing someone who doesn't even have the right to communicate if it's not through a glass, it's absolutely unfair and little balanced in a democratic game. I do not want to debate TV3; the CAC has, with the participation of all parliamentary groups, its opinions. It is quoted what the Attorney General of the State of Minors says about everything that LOMCE, the Law of Education and the Geneva Convention on the Rights of Infants – is on the report, they will find it. What the Ministry of Economy and History has said about whether or not there has been a misappropriation of funds, the opinion of the Ministry of Economy and History..., which I also believe is in the process, I imagine, the Ministry of Economy and History. All of this, we'll have time in a longer report to discuss and answer. There's only one thing, as in the end, that I'd be very interested in undermining. Many years ago, Joan Revontós, Miguel Núñez, in Quico Pi de la Serra, the leaders of the Venetian movement of Barcelona and Catalonia and many others, and I, who was a xitxarel·lo who had just arrived with my PhD from the United States, came down for the walk of Sant Joan claiming amnesty and freedom. And they were facing public law enforcement – then we called them the "greys," and now I'm saying, "I love them and everything," and we all sat down and started shooting rubber balls and they were going to beat up everything they could – if anyone cares about them, I still keep the rubber bullet that hurt my knee. I thought I'd never see it again in my life, I thought I'd never see it again in my life. Year 76! Forty-two years ago. October 1st I saw it again, and so I was commenting on it with the foreign press correspondents, who were calling me... it's the little vantage point of, um, being a little bit big. The October 1st, again, the people of Catalonia, like that day of 76, was expressed with immense pacifism. And they ask everyone to "like everyone", as I said to them when we talked about what the Council of Europe says about the linguistic conjunction in Catalonia, and to "like what makes the articulation of the people. Tots; I'm the first. Let them spoil it. It's a value that's envying many places in Europe, it's a treasure! There has been no partisan or electoralist willing to stay and interrupt this value. And we don't add any more than it does, and very much, though I came back from hiding when I was with a cardinal and other people in charge for weeks, which is said to be dialect, very dialect. Tones and tones of dialog are needed. Not only of debate, but also, with complete freedom of expression, but of dialogue. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.228.0	Thank you very much, syndic. Now, if the groups want to, they have a quick turn of intervention of up to three minutes. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa? All right, let's go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.229.0	Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Sindic, look, with regard to the disclosure of the secret vote, I am not going to reveal it to you; I am going to tell you that there were three abstentions and three noes, and one of these was ours. We therefore did not support him in the secret ballot. Secondly, how can you blame us for talking here about Mr Jordi Sànchez, if you quote him in your report to defend it? [[Greetings.]] How can you reproach us when you replace the judges and absolve them? You replace the judges and absolve him. And, by the way, he has not explained to us the transparent efforts that led to the union number 2 going to charge eight_000_euros a month for Pompeu Fabra University, and he will tell us whether it had anything to do with it or not, because we have asked Ciutadans to the Pompeu University and we are waiting for information from you, and you know, as a defender of the people, that we are denying reports to the Members and are being delayed in the sensitive things that we ask the Administration. [[Greetings.]] Very brief assessment of your appearance, Mr Ribó. You failed here today. You have come here and it has been shown that you do not protect the silent Members, the coerced officials, the mayors pressured by the process; that has been shown. It has been shown that you do not protect all Catalans who have wanted to deprive them of their passport by virtue of illegal laws applied here and by stealing their money and by stealing their data, and you have remained in evidence, because that is so serious you have not mentioned it and you have kept quiet in a report going on October. Not about many other things that you and I could talk about and that we talked about, in fact, often in committee. We reproach him that in his October report he has omitted all that is unfavorable to the process. So clear. He's seen himself and he's seen him all over Catalonia and everyone. And, I tell you, you haven't defended them, you haven't defended us, you don't defend those who aren't separatists, because you're a gear more of this process, than you've been living for many, many years, and living very well, charging good wages, taking each other from the elbows and advancing straight, waiting for no one to take away their mummium. That's what the pieces, the gears of the process are doing, while the Catalans are waiting for us to talk once and for all about what matters to them, talk about employment and talk about education. And in education, Mr. syndic, already in the end, the Catalan model d'èxit makes students with the lowest-income parents get the worst results. It's the education system...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.230.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.231.0	...where parents' income is most influenced.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.232.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.233.0	Social injustices like these are the ones that should occupy you, and not... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.234.0	Yeah, now it's Mr Morral's turn, if he wants it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.235.0	From here, because what I want to do is just two considerations. A first, to Mr. Carrizosa, who, with this style of language that you have, that tracks the insult, listen to me, where do you want to place the level of the debate in this room? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] This is not a style that is at the level of a parliament like ours. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's laying, let's say, the parliamentary debate on the ground...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.236.0	It's time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.237.0	...of personal insult. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.238.0	Mr. Morral, please don't go into a debate between yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.239.0	I think it's very unfair that an honourable Member's honor has been lashed in this... and the chairman of our parliamentary group, when he can't defend himself, because he's not there and he's locked up in prison. And the second thing I wanted to comment on is the... [[Funnel veils]] , to Mr. Santiago Rodríguez, the fact that they didn't get married, didn't get married to fraction the Catalan society. They won't get together, because we're much more democrats; we're much more in this room, the democrats. In the street there is coexistence. You fan, anecdote, thesis; fan, anecdote, thesis, because they are interested in the social fracture, living from the social fracture; they interest, provoke and stimulate it. But they won't get together, because we are much more, we are much more, what we are for democracy and coexistence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.240.0	For the Republican Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] You're giving up surgery? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Mrs. Escarp, come in. [[Pause.]] I think you need to have a little patience. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.241.0	Now, now, now... thank you, President. I'll do it from here to go very quickly, because they are, nothing, two appreciations. I believe that in the first part, now, in the reply, the syndic gave us the reason, because, when he explained the report and the reports that we will have, it became clear that today strictly a report on October 1 was to be submitted, it was done, it was not done or, somehow, it was not convenient. Anyway, I appreciate that he himself recognized it. Two things they called my attention. I believe that the syndic and its institution defend the right and freedoms, the rights of the citizens and citizens of Catalonia in the framework of the Constitution and the State. It seemed to me that strictly with his answer it seemed that what he was doing was defending the process, and I like to think more that he will defend the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. And lastly, he made an epic leap from 76 to '1 October. Clearly, between October 76 and 1st, that I was young and already soc great, so, we have seen the use of violence, sometimes, as last resorts and, many times, also disproportionate, as it has been in this case and which I had also considered. But, with advisors of different ideologies, we have seen the manifestation of Bolonya, Gran Via, the occupation of the Rectorate of the University of Barcelona, violent dislocation; we have seen the general vagueness, which you must remember by the name of Mrs Esther Quintana; we have seen the dislocation of the Plaza Catalunya... all of them, if we analyze them, disproportionate. But from '76 to '1 October there are too many years to jump 'em. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and voice of "Very good!]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.242.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. Mr. Nuet? [[Pause.]] Yes, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.243.0	Yes, thank you, President. In this House he has insinuated, I believe that the resignation of the heavyweight syndic has practically been called for. This morning the resignation of the Speaker of Parliament was called for. Keep an eye on it, keep an eye on it. Otherwise, yes, the people of Catalonia will send us all to feed fang. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.244.0	Yeah. Mr. Aragonese, a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.245.0	Thank you, President. I thought I was gonna give you three minutes. [[Rialles.]] First of all, we wanted to thank the syndic, and the syndic of Greuges as a body, for its activity, more than we have manifested the differences we have about some of the manifestations that are taking place and more there, obviously, that, when it comes to unilaterality, we may not feel comfortable. But we differ between what is the performance of an institution as the syndic of what we think politically, which is a very different issue. That's right, we're already telling him that we're going to ask him for action with regard to the performance of the Squadron Mosses the day after – we saw it in a very concrete way, carrying it over the waist, with rubber balls, with saves, that physically did not guard the necessary differences – and other actions that we consider to be derived from Article 155 and the general intervention that Catalonia has. Mrs Escarp, we thank you very much for remembering Bolonya, but it would be very good if you had denounced it at that time, which you did not, which was your government. [[Greetings.]] And in the next eight years we're waiting, too, so, yes, you're reporting everything you're talking about right now. We'll wait, and we'll thank him at the same time. And then the manifestation of what this House meant is the idea that we wanted to move. In the face of fundamental rights, more repression. And we saw in Ciutadans' first intervention, talking about how to intervene on the general wave, which referred to '1 October and referred to 3 October. What Ciutadans is asking is that, on a constitutional right, that Constitution that you so defend, that Constitution that, day yes, day also, in fan flag, does not apply the realization when it means recognizing rights. That's what you asked for today in this House. And let's also say stop donating fake data. In this House, the syndic spoke of September 6th and 7th in this institution, saying that he did not agree, saying that you may be violating the rights, and you are deaf to intervene, saying that you have not said anything at all, about this. And lastly, let no one criminalize the CUP militants, and less our directors and our directors. They're not acceptable...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.246.0	Mr. Aragones, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.247.0	... – and I finish, Mr President – the words that have been expressed in this plenary on which our governor Pujol Lizana said. All solidarity, because it's criminalizing itself so as not to accept this demagogue that we permanently have to endure from the independent left. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.248.0	Thank you. Mr. Rodriguez, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.249.0	Thank you, President. I will address the chamber with a style that I hope will follow from the satisfaction of Mr Morral, but it will allow me to tell him that if you consider that there is no fracture I recommend him..., I insist, pass'sel lacet, vagi per los carrereres, accompaniment registrars of the Popular Party, especially where there are full with members of the CUP, and you will see how, effectively, the behavior of the CUP is not criminalizing anyone, but directly anointing, threatening and intimidating absolutely everyone who thinks in a contreria way to how they do it. They will allow me, in relation to what we have come to talk about here today, which is from the syndic's report, which refers to the syndic that merit is not to have been chosen with a bunch of parliamentary support, which is obviously it. The merit, syndicate, is to end the term as at least with the same parliamentary supports that he had when he was appointed. And you know perfectly well that it's been a few months since we took his trust out of your pocket – we have said it over and over again. And, if I may, as one person has been spoken of repeatedly today, I want to make public today, among other things, because our group has taken away the support and trust of the heavyweight syndicate. This same Member, at a time when the Government of the Generality had already started the process and was preparing international reports to see how it could go against Spain and to see how it could take hold of the world to plant 'polluter against Spain', and to the extent that the Government of the Generality denied me access to the reports that we knew were being prepared and that were being paid to certain entities, we resorted – I don't know if I was being naive – to the Emperor of the Greuges Syndicate. And you must remember, syndicate, that you personally and another person in the union took me. Do you remember who that other person was, whom I was explaining to them that the Government of the Generality was holding on to those reports because we were convinced that they were doing wrong things around the world? Do you remember who that person was? The same person who a few weeks later resigned from his union and was president of the National Assembly of Catalonia. And that, Mr. Syndic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.250.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.251.0	...the one who makes us trust you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.252.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.253.0	For Mr Morral's allusions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.254.0	Your compliments have come between you. In any case, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.255.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Morral, you complain about the tone I have used and I say to you: "What have you voted for? Have you condemned violence today in this Chamber? [[Greetings.]] Have you condemned the statement of unthankful persons by fellow bankers, as has been done in Gerona, for example? Have you condemned her..., teaching people and excluding those from the community? Well, look, don't be surprised, Mr. Morral, that we put this in your face. Look, stop fracturing society, stop saying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.256.0	Time's up, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.257.0	I'm done, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-03-28-0401.258.0	No, no, time's up. [[Widow's remorse.]] He's already done 30 seconds. On behalf of the chamber, I would like to thank the syndic and his team for the presentation of this report and for their participation in the plenary. And to all of you, too, thank you very much. The session's up.
