ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.1.0	Good morning. The session begins... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak]] – for a moment, Mr Carrizosa – the session begins. Before starting the agenda, in any case, and in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, the record of the following voting delegations: the deputies Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva and Antoni Comín have delegated their vote to Mr Sergi Sabrià, spokesman for the Republican Parliamentary Group, and the deputies Jordi Sánchez, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull, Carles Puigdemont and the deputy Maria Isabel Ferrer have delegated their vote to Mrs Elsa Artadi, spokesman for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Modification of the agenda]] The first point of the order of the day is... Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.2.0	Yes, Mr President, to ask for an amendment to the agenda, on the basis of Rule 83(3) of the Rules of Procedure. A motion for a resolution calling for a commission of inquiry by the Government of the Generalitat into certain politicians and journalists has been deleted from the agenda at the Spokesman's Board held a moment ago. This item on the agenda was duly adopted, without the opposition of any parliamentary group, and it was included in the agenda, and has been on the agenda since Thursday. Ten_minutes earlier, on that Board of Spokespersons, it was agreed to delete that item from the agenda. In our view, this is a flagrant violation of the right of Members to see reflected and reflected in the plenary the items on the agenda agreed by the President once the Board of Spokesmen has heard it, and it is a very dangerous precedent in this Parliament for the parliamentary majority to be able, without any cause, to delete certain items on the agenda when, for political reasons, it wants to do so. We therefore call once again for the inclusion of this item on the agenda and for the vote to be taken in this plenary under Rule 83.3, because we strongly protest how the rights of Members of Parliament are repeatedly violated in the Catalonian Parliament and are not allowed to talk about those things that bother the parliamentary majority, such as, for example, making a committee of inquiry into the espionage that has taken place...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.3.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.4.0	... allegedly against politicians and journalists in Catalonia at the request of the past Government of the Generalitat. We ask you to vote on this in plenary because we have the right to do so under Rule 83.3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.5.0	Yes, ma'am Escarp, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.6.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ... Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, because the proposal, presented for four groups, is again placed on the agenda of the plenary, respects the creation of an inquiry commission. Besides, there are two very concrete things to do. One, the arguments that have been given for the withdrawal, really, and that have been expressed to the Board of Spokesmen, leave..., do not practically convince anyone, because there has been a period of discussions, because in general there has been..., everyone knew that this committee was going to go there, it was made public, and therefore, neither unconsciousness nor "we did not know about it, nor only what is the issue that has not presented itself with any kind of issues. And second of all, it's that it's always... I don't mean curios, but it's shocking, that the International Day of Freedom of Press is the day this plenary of Parliament is withdrawing a commission of inquiry that, among other things, investigates the espionage of journalists from this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.7.0	Yes, Mr. Fernández?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.8.0	Yes, thank you very much; in the same sense...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.9.0	Why ask me the word? For a point of order, I get it, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.10.0	Well, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.11.0	I'd appreciate it if you'd just let me know before you talk, yes... thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.12.0	Well, I think that, uh, he was actually giving this question, but, uh, go ahead, if he asks me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.13.0	But if we can't give it in fact, much better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.14.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.15.0	Mr. Fernández, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.16.0	No; simply scroll in the same line as you mentioned and add a question. At the length of our mandate, in the various meetings of spokespersons, always, on behalf of the Presidency and the members of the Bureau representing the separatist majority parties..., they have assumed that, in case of doubt, we would always have to look for the formula that allows for a broader debate. Interestingly, in this case, when it comes to talking about assumptions..., or not supposing espionages to various personalities in Catalonia, it turns out that this criterion has not been used, because today we have a doubt that has been raised to the Board of Spokespersons about whether or not the Board of Spokespersons had approved the inclusion in the order of the day of this point, and all this generosity assumed that you have to talk about anything, this presumption of democracy that you always possess from the table, today, in this case, have passed, therefore, for the sake of respect. We believe that it is a serious attack on democracy and that, indeed, it is a very difficult precedent for political formations, on the very day of the plenary, to withdraw a point from the order of the day. Thank you. [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.17.0	Yes, Mrs. Alamany?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.18.0	Thank you. I would also like to express the perplexity of this group for removing this item from the agenda. It is not an argument that a committee of these characteristics cannot pull forward because there are legal proceedings, because, if not, the committee would pull forward, for this same criteria. We want to make it clear that the exclusion of this House from the agenda is a political, non-procedural decision, and, in addition, you say quite a few serious ways that this Parliament should have at the time of its operation. Because, let me say this way of expressing myself, but a minute to start a ple, it seems to me that it's rather, very difficult, come to say that it's for a formal theme that today we can't approve a commission of investigation of these characteristics. Therefore, we ask ourselves, and we also commend this reflection to the rest of the parliamentary groups, to whom it makes for transparency in this country, to whom it makes for transparency and to whom it makes this Parliament look like glass. Answer your questions. [[Greetings. Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.19.0	Yes, ma'am Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.20.0	Well, very briefly, two questions. Don't freak out so much; there'll be more. There's a clear question, which is [[strong remorse of the eyes]] that it was agreed on the board of spokespersons that each parliamentary group would present a PR. For example, our parliamentary subgroup has withdrawn a motion for a resolution on Palestine precisely because it was agreed that each parliamentary group would present two. And the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group was already carrying one. That's for a band. And, on the other hand, it is not worrying; this parliamentary group will obviously give them all the support to investigate espionage, espionage on the part of the police, political parties, journalists, social movements, to whomever, it is done in Catalan territories or it is done outside the borders, because, for transparency, for democratisation and against espionage, we find ourselves there. It's not a question of funds, it's a very simple question. And they don't do so many skirmishes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.21.0	All right, look... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, silence... I refer effectively to Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure and to the fact that, as a minimum, two groups, and the sub-group of the People's Party, have called for this alteration of the agenda, the plenary should vote on this alteration of the agenda. We would therefore proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda to include this motion for a resolution which, of course, has completed the regulatory procedures; therefore, it may be possible to insert 'in the plenary', but it must be decided by the plenary itself in this vote. It will therefore be understood that the votes in favour will be in favour of altering the agenda to include this point and the votes against will be in favour of maintaining the agenda as it is at these moments, after the Board of Spokesmen. Call it a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] First... first call for a vote, calm down. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, the vote didn't start, huh? We're calling it a vote. We'll let you know when the vote starts. Yes; ask me the word, Mr. Forné? [[Pause.]] Yeah. Why ask me the word, Mr. Forné?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.22.0	It is only to clarify the meaning of the vote. « Is it to keep it in the order of the day? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.23.0	No, no. I repeat again – I repeat again. In favour of changing the agenda, therefore, to include this point, of this motion for a resolution; votes against are unfavourable to changing the agenda, therefore, to keep the agenda as it is stipulated, after the Board of Spokesmen we have just held. [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles.]] That said, the vote begins. The proposal to alter the agenda of this plenary was rejected by 65 votes to 70 with no abstentions. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Let us therefore continue with the order of the day as it was established. And the first point is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. As you know, the 25th of April was the months of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies, of the Commission of Petitions, of the Commission of Secret and Reserved Materials, of the Commission of the Syndicate of Greuges, of the Commission of the Union of Accounts, of the Control of the Activities of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans and of the Commission of Inquiry into the Tempts of 17 and 18 August 2017. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules, once elected in the months of these commissions, its composition must be communicated to the Plenary. The composition and election of the members of the months of the Commissions considered is included in the file of the Ple, which has been distributed to all Members and to all Members. Therefore, he nailed them that he'd dispensed from his reading. Is that it? [[Pause.]] All right. Therefore, we understand that we are in compliance with Article 49.2 of the Rules, and therefore they are given for communications these compositions of the months of the commissions. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 2/2014, of the 27th generation, of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures]] [[202-00004/12]] And we would move to the next item on the agenda, which is the single reading of the proposed law amending Law 2/2014, 27 genera, fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress called for the single reading of this legislative initiative and the Bureau, escorted by the Board of Spokesmen, proposed to the Plenary the application of this single reading procedure for this procedure, following the establishment of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. In the first place, if the parliamentary group does not ask for an intervention, we shall proceed to the vote for which it does the processing of the single reading of this law. [[Pause.]] I understand that there is no group requesting intervention. Therefore, we would proceed directly to the vote on the single reading of this law. The reminders that the affirmative votes are, of course, in favour of the single reading process and the negative ones, against. Call it a vote. [[Pause.]] Now yes, the vote begins. The single reading..., the single reading procedure for this bill's proposal was approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Once this single reading has been approved, we shall proceed to the debate, in accordance with Article 138(3), of the content of this proposal, which must be substantiated according to the standards established for the debate to the totality. It is to say that she has the word, in the first place, to present this initiative, Mrs.Alícia Romero, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, for a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.24.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies; good morning to the Director General of Universities, Mr. Pallarès, who accompanied us, and especially to the members of the students of the Ceucat, who today also wanted to accompany us in this important debate, all of them encapsulated for their coordinator, the Parals Pau, to whom I want, therefore, to thank..., not only a greeting, but also to thank all the task they have been doing so that today this is also possible. I want to make a little history to situate ourselves today where we are and why this legislative initiative. The year 2014, in the Law of fiscal measures and financing, at its time the councillor Mas-Colell and the current deputy, then general secretary of Universities, Mr Castellà, incorporated in that Law of measures of 2014, an article, article 211, that basically what it does is to oblige students who had started the degrees the year 2014-2015 to graduate with the certificate B2, with a certificate of third language, which was indispensable because they could hold this title. The article said only that, there was no mass..., an exposition of motius, because it was a law of measures where there were so many things. And to us, although we can share that objective, we share the goal of improving the intercultural linguistic skills of our students. This country needs to improve its language skills in a very clear way and I think we have many examples that we are not yet at the level of other European countries, despite the fact that Europe has marked a multilingualism mark that we should have set out in a very clear way, but in any case this article was incorporated into it. I say that we share the objective because we did not share the form, it did not seem to us that a law of measures had to incorporate an element so important for that it does to the competence development of a student, that it is not at the university, but that it has to be throughout its educational trajectory – we could almost say from zero to three – but, in any case, as in the least, from all the higher education and compulsory education. We did not share that it is faith through a law of measures and neither, nor much less, were we able to share the instruments that were to accompany this. Because we can have a legitimate objective, but then we have to ask for resources because this objective can be absolved, and that's what the government didn't do, because, in that 2014 premise that accompanied that bill of measures, if important parties could have been incorporated to, for example, improve the permanent formation of our teachers. I want to remind you that of the 72,000 we have, there are only 20,000 that at these times could develop assignments in English in the different curricula. Therefore, we are at a very low level: there could have been activities and resources for this permanent formation, we could have incorporated more teachers in English, we could have increased the places at the Official School of Idioms. That is to say, we could have put on the march, in that presupposition of 2014 that accompanied the Law of measures, actions, programs because it was actually carried out that objective and that it was completed 2018-2019, in that course..., say, this course that today ends, 2017-2018, apologize. But that wasn't it, and that's why we didn't share it. In fact, we shared it so little that we made a point in this article, that we asked that, in the accounts of the students who started the course 2014-2015, it is asked to start the 2018-2019. You've got it there, huh? We're at the end of the street another time. Because we already see that without resources it was impossible for us in four years to achieve what we had not achieved in so many, and, therefore, we were very critical of that article that Mas-Colell incorporated into that law. We have data on the tests of basic competitions of 2015 girls to students of fifteen years. And to give them some data that are important: to the most benevolent areas, to the areas where it is made per capita is higher, the middle note in English is an eight. In areas where per capita income is lower, the grade is less than a six. And in these high-complexity institutes, 38 percent of students do not have basic skills in third language. Europe tells us that 2020 should be 15. We're very far away, aren't we? And, besides, what these data say, which for us is more worrying, is how the socio-economic origin of the student ends up affecting its development. That is to say, as we have a society of two speeds – which we have so much criticized from the Socialist Group: two speeds. If you have the ability and resources to pay an extracurricular in English because your parents can send the foreigner to stay, you probably get this eight, you get the basic skills in third language. But if your family doesn't have the capacity to make this reinforcement, then you won't have these basic skills. This is said to be a two-speed company, and that's what we can't afford. We must be able to give opportunities to everyone in training, in access and then in employment. It's so important! And, therefore, that's what we didn't share with that article is that it didn't have clear programs and resources in it because then it could be completed. And I looked where we are today, here, modifying that date, modifying that period that we had already examined at its time. And why? So, look, among other things, not because the Socialist MP says it, that you can say that you have processed the data for 2015 and that maybe you have now improved a little bit, no. The Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, which is to be used for the accreditation process of the B2, conducted a study on what was the level of third-degree students of Catalan universities. And the results presented them on April 19, 2017, where it was said, or it was concluded that it was true that there had been a certain improvement in the basic skills of the third languages, but that the level was actually insufficient – it was insufficient. So, what does the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia do? So, with a board that developed on June 22, urges the Government to, through the Parliament, push for a modification of that article 211 that marked that the students who enrolled in the 2014-2015 course should extend the period and, therefore, that they be required to do so to 2018-2019 and not to those. Therefore, the one we had already said at that time. It was done, the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, to try to generate some certainly equalities, because obviously, if that level had not been achieved at most of our students, something is failing. But not to the university, because if we think that who enters the university the first course will be able to complete this level in the four years of the degree is wrong. The effort we have to do now in compulsory education, we have to do it from primary to baccalaureate. For this reason, when we presented this change, we did it – with Esther Niubó, who brings the educational themes – accompanied by a proposal for a resolution, where we asked for explicit programs of permanent training for teachers, inter-cancers, more English teachers, more resources for the public school. Because, if not, four years from now there will be another Member here who will say that, please, four more years. So we don't want it? And what do we share with the target? And that's a priority for the country? Because we all want to have good skills in third language, whether it's English or not. Yeah? So if it's our priority, it has to be reflected in a premise, because the assumptions are the photograph of our priorities. You can't come here, put an article for the back door to the measuring law, and then not a euro. No, the premise is the priority. And, therefore, what we would like to demand from our own Government, to which it is coming, is that, please, if we agree with this priority, we are putting in place resources, because four years from now I don't want to make another moratorium because the level has sunk. And I also want to say here: I want to thank the universities, and many students and families who have made an effort because their children, their students have reached the level, but we can't be content with this: we want everyone to have the opportunity to have this level of competence; and, if you don't have it, then we need to put in more resources. And that's why we're trying to extend the period four years longer, ask and demand these resources from the Generality so that everyone can do it. Priority. Because I want to remember that 2010... – and I know it's hard to say it – 2010 was the beginning of the retailing in universities. We have 250, 300_million euros less in financing; in education we are at 2.8 of the GDP dedicated to this matter – it should be the sixth, according to our Law of Education. We have increased taxes to 66_per_cent. The same counselor who said he knew how to reinforce the third language increased taxes by 66_per_cent. And at the Official School of Idioms, where there are no places, the fee is increased between 50 and 180_per_cent. Therefore, an effort must be made: not only the objective, resources must be put in the way because this can be achieved. As I said, on June 22, the CIC, the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, asks the government to set up the Parliament to make this change. But it doesn't, it doesn't. Since June, they spend the days, spend the months and there is no government legislative initiative to make this change. When this legislature begins, the Ceucat – its representatives believe that they have seen all the groups, because it is their job to try and boost parliamentary activity from their student activism as well – they have sent us this uncertainty and legal uncertainty that caused them that if you didn't have this certificate to finish this course you wouldn't have the degree. And that's a drama to say in words that everyone understands. And, therefore, what we did is listen and try to shape with a change, with a law proposal, this moratorium that they demanded from us and that they demanded from the entire university community. Because the universities also say: "If we have not been able to achieve and achieve this level, please, so let's expand it four more years, but let's put resources in it. Therefore, what the Socialist Group is doing today is to present this proposal for law with a constructive spirit. We also need to look past why we're here now asking for this mortuary to try and keep it from happening again. However, in any case, we have made this proposal to extend this requirement of the B2 certificate four years later, and therefore wait until today we can approve it. It is probably the few things that will have a real impact on the citizen since the start of the legislature, and for us it is a satisfaction that can affect the benefits, in the positive, of so many students. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.25.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Ms Gemma Geis, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, for a time of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.26.0	Well, good morning, President. Members, Members, the coordinators and coordinators of the Ceucat who are here, the Director General Pallarès..., allow me, in advance, that our parliamentary group shows its support to all those women, also from the university community, that the last few days have made public, through the networks, breaking their silence, experiences viscous to university, settlement, abuse or sexual intimidation, already as teachers, students or administration staff and servants. The universities of the Republic that we are going to adopt are not only to be universities with a research, with a teaching and with a transfer of quality, but also to be old for human quality. So, let us publicize our solidarity and commitment to work hard to make this issue visible and face it. From Juntes per Catalunya, together with Esquerra Republicana and also the deputy of the Socialist Party, we have worked on this amendment of the law, and basically we will disengage three aspects, which I believe are the most important, to the students who are here, so that we can pass it on to their respective associations. It's three points. The first is the need for hard to term this second moratoria of the demand of the degree of English, of B2.1. And the first thing we've done is set up an immediate implementation arrangement for this change so that the beginning of its publication in the official journal comes into effect. The second, which also has a nuclear aspect, and for those of us who know the practice at university, therefore, is that it was finally considered that Article 211, which established this common proof of English, has been deleted, because it is understood that, through the language services of universities, which we also have to recognize the excellent task of making the last few years, as well as the official schools of languages, there are already many..., a wide range of certificates that, therefore, allow the students to obtain this B2. Therefore, what we have done has also been eliminating this evidence. And a third aspect, which was also commented by the Member of Parliament Romero, towards the justification of this second moratorium. The first thing we have to say is that, in fact, the results that were made manifest that all the better, because these have indeed happened, respect the use of English, there is still a percentage that is insufficient to know the foreign language. In this sense, as he also mentioned, the Language Policy Committee of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, on 19 April, presented the results of the second tests of the level of knowledge of languages, addressed to the third grade student of Catalan universities, and there it was presented that if it had progressed..., it was necessary to make this moratorium. Also remind Congresswoman Romero that... – because we talked about it, didn't we? – when referring to the government, well, this CIC agreement which called for this moratorium is a June agreement. By September, the intervention of the Generality, without 155, had already taken place; from there we have Government in exile and Government in prison and, therefore, beyond the tasks and the public service vocation of the secretaries-general and directors-general who still remain there, so it has been much more complicated. But this improvement was made manifest, but it was not enough and therefore justified this moratorium. In this sense, I would also value a news report of March 22, 2018, in which, in an external English test conducted for the British Council for ESO quarter students, last November, it turned out that they got a score of 65.9_per_cent; a 15.9_per_cent higher than the European Union's 2020 targets. And this test was carried out on 1,416 students, which I believe proves, and I believe it believes, that this is surely one of the last moratoriums that we will have to approve on behalf of the Catalan Parliament. In another respect, I would also like to recall, and it is also important for the students, that this moratorium does take into account those students who already have and have B2.1, because, as they have tried and, therefore, have, it is possible, through the agreement of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia..., that they consist of this title in the European supplement. And, therefore, those who have not been able to get it are not required, but those who have seen it recognize their effort through the inclusion of the title in the supplement. And on the other hand, in this moratorium, therefore, it is very important that through the channels it is brought to the students that to the students who finish this year will not be required at this level of English. Above all, it's a vehicle for legal certainty. It is very important that a student, when he or she begins his or her university career, knows what his or her course of study is, knows who the assignments are to be passed, whether and how to guarantee who his or her duties are as a student and how to complete them at his or her own level. And in this sense too, a little to contrast..., you explained: "In 2010, no? , "the approval of the assumptions. But I was also at the university and I remember the streets, because I was the one who criticized the Bolonya plaque, because I understood that the Bolonya plaque was also being applied without sufficient resources. And that's what we've been through a lot at the universities, where to remove the licentiates, to the most degree the master, we've seen how many students have difficulty accessing the master, because the prices of the masters are much more expensive. Therefore, also, if we go to the origin of the problem, with a government of President Zapatero, at that time he applied a Bolonya plate without going along with resources, not only, let's say, economics but teaching for the students, that we are still patenting the entire university community. So I think I agree with you: we need more resources. Much more resources are needed; that we consider universities to be strategic for the Republic, and, in this sense, we believe that, as much as we need more resources, the only possible way is the Catalan Republic. A republic that, as you said, there are two levels, two speeds..., can guarantee equal opportunities so that we can make a full disposition of all resources. Therefore, we will vote in favour of these issues, and we will wait and work, if we can finally govern, if it is produced, then, because these students can complete the English, because I understand that it forms part of the European Higher Education Mark, and I believe that it falls much more to their professional fates and to have a true equal opportunity for all our students. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.27.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. Now has the word Ms Gemma Espigares, of the Parliamentary Group Republic, also for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.28.0	Good morning, president, deputies, deputies. Today it is obvious that we are here with an exceptional situation, a situation that leads us to approve a moratorium on the application of the third language application to the study of Catalan universities. A job that would correspond to the government that we don't have here today. A government that, moreover – among them the Director General of Universities, who accompanies us – already in June of last year proposed a national pact for universities. A pact that needed to be talked about was the stable funding model that universities need to operate; of what was to be this model of public fees that we have in Catalonia – or what were to be held in Catalonia –, and of what was to be that model of scholarships to accompany, because it is inestriable to talk about price and talk about scholarships; of what is to be the international level that we keep at the university level in teaching and research, and also of the situation of the PDI, of the teaching research staff, and also of the administration staff and services that we have to the universities, that are pre-qualified in some situations and that also needs to be enabled. And this is the pact we need, this is the pact that, with consensus, the government wanted to approve. And this is a pact that must be closely linked to teaching and professional training. But, unfortunately, we are not discussing the globality of this national pact, we are not discussing how we want the universities of our university system to follow, but that, this exceptional situation that gives them, leads us to live in a country protected by an oppressor who paralyzes our research projects, who is complicit in the fraud of university titles, or complicit, as at least, in the silence in the acquisition of university titles, and who is also politically engaged in their ideas, who are also professors of our universities. For all this, from our parliamentary group we do not only want to approve this temporary moratorium, which we will do today because of the exceptional situation that exists and to get out of this situation of uncertainty, but what we would like to do is to discuss the future of our university system, and to discuss, as in 2014, the Government put the table, the strategy of a country to internationalize, even more, our universities. And it's obvious that to do so we need to talk about actions and how to get connected to secondary and primary education, and how we don't want to leave a student on the way. And you know, Mrs. Romero, that Republican Left with the scholarships has always said that no student is left for the path for economic reasons, and the same one has the table now: that no student of the system is left for the English word, if only – if only – is for an economic reason. And that's one thing that's all about getting old, and that our will is also there. And I'm talking about data. Deien..., the diagnostic tests of 2016-2017, tell us that a 28_percent of the student still doesn't have the B1 level, and that's a problem. Therefore, we must continue to work there, and therefore, this moratorium on us is necessary now. But also within the detail of what Congresswoman Geis was commenting on, of the data of the British Council, and it is that there is already a 30_per_cent that a quarter of ESO has the level that we would require six years later – or five, depending on the type of degree that you do –; six years earlier it already has the level of B2 or C1. Therefore, we already have a 30_per_cent six years ago. We have another 30_per_cent that is already at level B1, so, two years advanced, has two years of battling and three or four years of college to complete it. And yes, we have a problem with this 30_per_cent. This 25 that goes from the correct path, that has two years to move from A2 to B1, and four more to move from B1 to B2, and an 8_per_cent that is below A2. Therefore, this 8_per_cent is what we have to take care of and what we have to put all the resources in order to get where it touches us, but an 8_per_cent does not halve it. And, frankly, do you think that if by 2014 we've already approved the moratorium and said, "we're going four years ahead, we'll be with these data now? So I buy him the part that there's not enough resources yet, on this side I give him the reason, because basically the resources are never enough, we always want there to be much more; but the part that I can't accept is that he tells us that we haven't advanced, because we've advanced, and a lot. And so do the students with this report. They talk to us about how they start learning English in six years or before, which didn't happen. From how they use the third language, for example, 75_per_cent listens to songs in English several times a week, and this environment is also important. Also the original version, also the languages at home, with friends, also help us to acquire and flow this third language. And as students tell us, it is important for them to know the third language for personal, educational and professional projection. The AQU data owners, with their job placement survey. The graduates, therefore, that people who have already finished university, tell us that the idiom is still a pending assignment, that the difference between the rebuff formation and the labor needs is still not enough; but, above all, the good news is that the graduates also tell us that the skills that are better are the leadership, the oral expression and the idioms. So, part of the job we're doing, and pretty well. And another study. If we've talked about the students and we've talked about the graduates, about the occupants, about the people who hire us when we graduate from college. And these, on the 2014 AQU survey, with 1,325 companies and institutions, also tell us that this import of the languages..., it's for them, and that they have a satisfaction of their own. Therefore, also in this aspect we are getting better. I'm done with the resource thing. He said there was no such thing as that, and so long as it was. But let me tell you that the government has done its job of implementing A3 aid; more than 1,500 aid granted. And, in fact, the third year triples those of the first year. Therefore, I mean that every year more students also know him and more students ask for this help, either to take the exam or to take the English course. And he knows we're talking about help because unfortunately, in Catalonia, we can't talk about scholarships, because scholarships, even though the Constitutional Court two years, 2001 and 2016, gives us competence, they're following Madrid segrestades. And don't tell me the universities haven't done the job either. The universities have tripled the offer of language courses they do; therefore, the universities also work. And these 20,000_about_72,000 teachers, therefore, roughly one-third of the teachers, who have the level of English, so..., it is also certain that the young people who enter the university, the new teacher, have a higher level than the professors, who fifty years ago did not send them. Therefore, the generational network will accept that it will also increase the level of universities. And there's things hanging over us, and as long as they do. We have to incorporate this European supplement into the title, because the students are also being recognized by this work they have done; we have to continue with this help from Parla3, because, I would say, they are never enough, and that this also has to be linked to the secondary school. There can be no resources left and no strength in primary and secondary education and, in change, want the university to have it. And as I said before, let it go, let the original versions, let the friends, that all this also help us to do it. For all this we will give support to this moratorium, with the two items that together with Juntes for Catalonia and also with you we have been able to work. And also because it is a demand, as we say, of the CIC, of the rectors, but also of the Ceucat, that in all those meetings that we hold, therefore, claim it. And I finish, President, I finish this turn, waiting for the university community to continue claiming the civil and democratic rights of our country, as it was done at the Autonomous University a few weeks ago, of which Professor Junqueras and Professor Anna Gabriel were teachers, even if we had to change faculty for a prohibition; as it was done at the UB, a few days ago, where we also had to cover the logos in order not to offend anyone, to claim the civil and democratic rights of our country, and where it will be today at Ramon Llull, where Romeva was also professor, and at ESADE, where the Comin is. That the example Saint Andrews has set for us with the teacher and with the Councilwoman Poussati serves us as an example, because at this point the university cannot be left out of such an important country debate, because silence is not an option. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.29.0	Thank you, Mrs. Spigares. Then, for a turn against it, also, has the word Ms.Alícia Romero; in this case, five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.30.0	Thank you, President. I'll be as quick as I can be. First of all, I would like to thank the work and all of the Gemma Geis and Gemma Espigares deputies, because it is true that we all know what we want, but sometimes reaching agreements is not so easy, and I have to thank them, so this will to build and to be able to arrive at unique texts that make us all feel comfortable. I wanted to say a few things. First of all, why do I think it's good that we're still honest at the time of making proposals, right? And to explain realities, because reality usually ends up being very coughy; I do it all the way, you see? Don't worry, huh? Because I don't want to attack, but I also think things have to be said. On June 22 there was that meeting of the CIC; on June 28th, July 12th, July 25th, September 6th, October 10th, October 26th: six plenums, six plenums ordinaris in which the president was Puigdemont and where the government was in operation, in a complete manner. And, therefore, in those six plenary sessions, in any of those six plenary sessions, the Government could have presented this easy modification of that Article 211. Very simple, and it didn't pass. I don't want to say anything else, but anyway, when we say that we prioritize, so it has to be demonstrated. And in this case it was shown to be carrying this small modification to the government-driven Parliament, and it was not done. And the truth is that, thanks – and we have all said this – the Socialist Group carried it, therefore, at the impulse of the Ceucat. But I think it's also worth saying. Then they passed... it's true, after October 27th, the story, so he already told us what happened. But before there were a few months in which we could have done this job, and we thought there were other priorities, that President Puigdemont prioritized other things, and maybe that was in a coven. And today, by luck, then, we can discuss it among all of you and agree together, so that you don't miss out on the account above all the students, in not getting this degree as long as you don't have this B2 certificate. I would say to Mr. Espigares – and I've told Mr. Navarro many times – that after so long we've almost made friends, and Mr. Pallarès knows it, and I have an estimate of it – that we can't be so self-sufficient, Mrs. Espigares, we can't be so self-sufficient when 300_million euros have been passed on to public universities, the funding has been substantially extended since 2010– yes, Mr. Castellà, who makes ganyotes–, and there has also been a 66_percent increase in university fees. And I say it and I say it to Ceucat, to whom we are quoting today: they have increased taxes. Yes, there have been equity scholarships, but these scholarships have not been able to solve the problem of this so exaggerated rise in university fees. And, therefore, we need to resolve this. I would ask Esquerra Republicana, I would ask Mistress Espigares, is that, please, you influence the government, the government that I hope is done well soon, and you get better funding for universities. Because we don't ask for it: so do the rectors. And, therefore, ask Esquerra Republicana, if you please, to do this job in the government, to increase the funding of public universities, because, if not, we will not be able to solve either job insecurity, nor can we reduce taxes, nor will we be able to improve the investments that are not fan of more than five years in university centers... Therefore, I would ask you to demand this from this government. We would be very loving, because it seems to us that it is very important that this step is done. Deia Mas-Colell, the advisor Mas-Colell, a few weeks ago in a diary: « Now yes– said–, « now it is time for the universities– must have been before it had been. So, please, now, the government that will come, please, with this influence that I hope you do Republican Left, that incorporates clear resources and increases these 700 and millions of euros that at these times have the universities, when 2010 had 1,000, and, therefore, the reduction has been very important. I also wanted to say to them, when Mrs. Espigares said that we have improved in English... Home, we have improved, obviously, only would be lacking; I have recognized, that we have improved, and I have recognized the effort of families, students and universities, that some have put in resources without looking for them, because this work has to be done before. But in any case, we also have to recognize that when this happens and when there are a lot of important students at this level, if we go looking for the socioeconomic origin – and I said it before – we will find ourselves at these two speeds. It is true that people, families who can pay for a concerted school that devotes more effort to English, or families who can do extra-curricular activities or send their children to foreigners, sun a better level of English than those who are in public school, because they have fewer resources, many times, familiar. And, therefore, this is evidence that says all the data. We can't afford..., and I'm also saying it, Mrs Espigares, because I think that Esquerra Republicana surely shares this model of society; then we have to see it also reflected in the premise, but if the shared one should try not to have these two speeds, that any student, come from where, have the origin that he has and the socioeconomic level that he has, can have the same opportunities. That's what we want; that's why we're doing the moratorium. Otherwise, we don't want to be here; if you've been good, we don't want to be here. Therefore, we approve of the moratorium, that we have resources and that we can congratulate ourselves on other occasions because we also come to agreements for the benefit of the university and its students. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.31.0	Thank you again, Mrs Romero. Now, to position himself, the first word has the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Jorge Soler – for a maximum of two minutes, I remember.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.32.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Deputies and deputies, today we find ourselves adjourned one of the best opportunities our children and their own generations have: mastering the English language. The university community, the students, the rectors, have found that in general the students of the degrees do not have the level of English enough, in finalizing the studies, that the law had predicted for Catalonia, and they have asked us four years of moratorium, four years of lost opportunities. And that reminded me of a month back in 2012. I was at my office at the Faculty of Medicine when he came to see'me representing the students of the Council of the Study of that time we had at the faculty, all concerned because the University of Lleida, well involved, as today, therefore, is making itself clear, in the subject of languages, was modifying a regulation, a regulation of which I have got the eraser but which has progressed until the document that I have here at the Faristol, and which exposed things as interesting as the ones I will read further. Deia: "The university considers that the languages are a cultural capital and of academic, scientific, social and professional interaction of the greatest magnitude, both in the local context and in the international and global context. Multilingualism today is not an option, but it is a necessity, and therefore for the university institution it is an indefensible responsibility to provide it with the necessary tools to complement with what it recognizes as an essential value for administrative, academic and scientific communication. And the same text, in the preamble, says things like: "The real domain of third languages is indispensable both for real and productive international mobility and for a job, job, success. And the same document ended up integrating the law, which with today's moratorium, so, we're adjourned, where they said that the students of 14, 15 and later had this curriculum accreditation of level B2. Those students are now certain that they are already doctors, but they reminded me of a visit we had here to the parliamentary group, also weeks ago: some students from a faculty in Barcelona came to see us, with the same, asking time, asking for a moratorium, because they would not finish the degree if they actually demanded the B2 level they did not have. And that's why Citizens will also vote in favour of this moratorium, because the students obviously don't blame them. Students are not to blame for this, tenenel domini de l'anglès at the B2 level... The government the last few years has basically made three big mistakes: first place, stay a date– promotions started on course 14-15 – without compromising's truth on the subject; two, stay an indicator– that has level B2– and come here today without a complete one, and third place, that in fact is a setback of the first two, not having done everything that could be done, because the date has arrived and the indicator is not complete – in fact, as was foreseeable. And before that, does that look like a success model? That there's a moratorium because the government can't guarantee that college students have B2 level is successful? I remind you that today we find ourselves here for three reasons: at the request of the Rectors, at the request of the students and their families, but mainly at the request of the Board of the Interuniversity Council, which on 22 June agreed to demand a moratorium on B2. What has the nationalist government done in the past few years, which is now demanding a moratorium on its own demands? Maybe so much to repeat that the model of education is a success if they have grown up. And the university community must come to us now to make Parliament recognize the reality as it is: that the problem obviously sees from the preview to the university. And what happens, therefore, in this not anticipated? So, look, the education system has a lot of room for improvement. And all this also reminded me of some of my own... well, third parties, debates with some of those who are in these schools, someone who is sure behind me, where I said that I loved Catalonia, urgently, to invest more in languages. And you, as is a usual mantra, told me that we had a model of successful school. And I said to them: "But if the faculties of education are demanding a five, as at least, selectivity, apart from languages! , precisely to prevent students from entering the grade who make a lot of lacks. But I am told that we in Catalonia have a model of success. It is true that they answer me the same thing: if I told you that we have a lot of social inequality, that it affects academic results; that there is not enough teaching; that we need to invest in continuous formation of this teaching, in academic innovation, in the 340 centres of high complexity, in plantation, in school abandonment, repeaters..., in other words, we always had a model of success. Well, I ask myself again: where do we have this success model today? I imagine that some, so much to repeat, may have believed that we would find Finland. And according to the experts, do we find ourselves in Finland? So, look, I'm taking one of the exhibitions, one of the evidences, the book, the last book by Professor Martínez Celorrio, where I'll read a short sentence, of the many we could read here today, but on page 80 I'll read textually: "We need a public leadership and a powerful discourse of educational modernization, which offers the just balance between excellence, equity and innovation. Well, they already see how experts detect these opportunities for the better. And, in the same way, this document, that of April 2017, the assessment of ESO's quarter, made it very clear to us; a document, certainly, of the Generality, a document... [[the timer the show]] , sorry, this: the 2017 ESO quarter evaluation. There is insistence, a document of the Generality, a document published for the Department of Education, we are told, on page 24, that more than 56_percent of the students of quarter ESO make in the present four or more orthographic deficiencies if they write in castle, and more than 62_percent if they write in català; four or more. I, focusing on the third language, this same document finds that more than 30_percent of Catalan students have a lower or lower level in the third language, xifra that increases to more than 50_percent in high-complexity centres and xifra that dramatically improves, up to 12_percent, in low-complexity centres: another example where educational inequality can be added to territorial inequalities, that also in the levels of idiom is considerable, according to the insistence, the same document of the Department of Education. Also, some have heard me say it many times, and I will repeat it: so that all the students of any school learn in English; not English, that also, in English. And to make him accept that in general he is not getting to Catalonia, that he has to allocate resources, scholarships, and that it is possible to do if some people recognize that we have a great opportunity to take advantage of. Ciutadans bet for a public, innovative, quality and trilingual school, where English is also a vehicle language. Training in Catalan, Spanish and English would be good for the future of Catalonia, would be good for all Catalans. Investing in education is investing in a good future. And I ask myself, what are you going to do, from then on, to reverse this situation? In fact, we are pleased that you are now incorporating legal security here, plus – it is an interesting value – because today... [[applause]] , because today we approve a four-year moratorium, and it is possible that some will continue to repeat that we have a successful school, without making any changes, and between four years here someone will find himself with a similar petition registered in the General Registry of Parliament. In other words, I think it's time to worry about the truth, once and for all, about the future, about what we would do to capture this result. If we want our own generations to be truly successful, we need to bet on the language at school. Members and Members, in addition to realizing the reality, as we are obliged to do today, that is that the university community needs a four-year moratorium because the students do not have the required B2 level, our hand well extended to join us in doing everything possible to improve the Catalan education system. As the professor of Italian literature Nuccio Orden says at his latest book, the greatness of the people is measured by the culture they possess. From Ciutadans, I insist, the hand extended for a better Catalonia for everyone. It is relevant, it is necessary and it is an opportunity, Members and Members, that we should not lose. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. It is now the turn, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.34.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Effectively, and with the global positioning of the groups, we will modify the obligation that established for the students who started the course in 2014-2015 the obligation to certify at the end of the degree the B2 level of a third language. But that's not a moratorium. I think we don't have to be self-supporting people and we have to be enormously honest. When 2014–15 is four years, as at least, to believe this level, and we arrive in 2018, past these four years, and there are four more, that's not saying moratorium, that's saying weak. And we must see, to be honest and to be able to move forward, and not just to be self-fulfilling, to whom we attribute this weakness. I think that we can't attribute this to the students in any case, because it's just that today we modify and make this modification of what was established in 2014 so as not to ask as a requirement to what has not been offered from the same departments of Universities and Teaching. Education, learning, is a right, not a privilege. When they don't have tools; when they don't have places for official language schools; when the language services of public universities have absolutely unorbitable taxes that can't be said in any case public taxes, you're converting what should be a right into a privilege. And that's why the responsibility doesn't fall to the students. We are seeing, in fact, the weakness of public policies followed by the governments of the Government of Catalonia, since 2014, as at least, until today, for what it does to universities. A weakness that started with a joke. It was said before – I said, I think, the representative of Esquerra Republicana, or of Junts per Catalunya – the theme of the Bolonya plate, when it was said that the Bolonya plate was at zero cost. Yeah. But the joke that the Bolonya plate might be at zero cost was followed by that other heavy joke of the governments of Convergence and Union, the governments of the « ESADE boys, the governments of 2011 d'Artur Mas, of the Mas-Colell, of the Elsa Artadi, as the adviser of the Mas-Colell, at those times, that they distributed 140_million euros to the public universities. Therefore, from the zero cost to the cost minus 140_millions, which later went accumulating with a spread of up to 300_millions to public universities. Where's the frac? Where's the frac in all this? And, at the same time, not only is the funding of the public university detailed, at a time when it was said that the way out of the crisis was the economy of knowledge, which was the investment in education. As the mouths of those words were filled, they were denied every day in their assumptions, both the governments of Convergence and Union as the governments of Junts for the Yes that came later, both as well as the others. Because the joke of retailing was, at the same time, the rise in university taxes. The most expensive university taxes in the whole of the State are paid to Catalonia. In fact, Mr. Wert's tax decree was a proposal of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, as he explained himself; it was not a direct initiative of the Government of the PP at those times in Spain, but a proposal of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. A 67_per_cent, taxes went up at those times. And what did he say? What is the result of all this university policy that has now been self-explanatoryly explained to us here, and they are talking about moratoriums and they do not accept what has been one of the great failures of the policies of the governments of Catalonia in recent years? He assumed that while he was talking about the economy of knowledge, university professors were constantly precarious, with university plants where more than 50_percent of the faculty is precarious and where there are teachers and teachers who cover less than 500_euro to do their job. He assumed that those who, at ESADE, at private university, and in economics, that economy that had failed and brought us the crisis, seemed to know so much about us that they imposed systems of productivity that they would assume that at these times Albert Einstein could not be a teacher of the Catalan public university; a system of excellence, efficiency, efficiency, knowledge. He assumed that it wasn't just Albert Einstein who couldn't be a teacher, but that it was 1,500 professors who were expelled from public universities. From whom is the fracá, when not only did 1,500 professors of public universities disappear, but fifty thousand university students, from that wonderful government of ESADE, have disappeared from our universities? We have fifty-thousand students enrolled less at these times. And the resources to guarantee the level in the third language, the B2, the resources to be put in those pretensions to build excellence, while what is ugly was to build the misery of the public university, these resources where they were put? I suppose it was very well explained by Councilman Mena, of Occupation, saying that what the young people of this country had to do to learn English was going to serve coffee in London, in one of the most miserable statements that are remembered in relation to what the young woman of this country was living in those moments. It's actually a frac, it's not a moratorium. This country needs a public university at the service of the country, which does not expel talent, but the form, with a public financing that reversed the combination of viscudes retails. They talk a lot about the republic. Look, I'd be more humble, even more humble, in this; I'd only want university fees like those held by Austria, Denmark or Scotland, and so up to eleven countries in Europe, which are zero. That is investing in the country's future. I, if they want, could even be more humble: the university fees they hold at these times France, Portugal or Belgium, and so up to twelve countries of Europe that are under the five hundred euros, between seven and five hundred euros. In any case, this country is sure to deserve a government that complements, as well as the resolutions of the Parliament of Catalonia. As long as it proclaims the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia, and becomes incomplete, when it does not matter. In 2016, the Catalonian Parliament established that university fees should be lowered by 30_per_cent. 2016. It's been two years, huh? There's been a lot of things going on for two years. But in two years there was time to complete the resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia that you allow fifty-thousand university students not to leave, that you allow as a minimum; a government that puts real resources for a university at the service of the country, that does not harm education. They speak of excellence, efficiency and fairness, and what they really do is abuse education and knowledge. Because in them is our future. Today they don't suspend the students; today they suspend the governments we've had. I'm sorry. Because you can talk a lot of things, and you can fill a lot of things; among their ranks are the people who perpetrated the worst-casement against public universities, and still defend it today. What do you expect in the future of this country's public university? I believe that a little, I sincerely believe that a little, because you are..., because you are in your files; those who did this are in your files, of the majority of Parliament, are in the files of Esquerra Republicana, Mr. Antoni Castellà, which is not there now; Mrs. Elsa Artadi, who did the advice of the retailers of Mr. Mas-Colell - continue here, follow the protagonists, and I have not seen any direction in this direction. They've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing, they've been suspensing. Because these are the ones who have kept their efforts, their sacrifices and their struggles, the universities that we need for the future, because we need it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. Now is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Mr. Riera, you've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.36.0	Thank you, President; from the very beginning, to say that our group will vote in favour of this initiative of moratorium, without further arguments to add that those who have already given themselves, but take advantage of the advent, as other groups have done, to say that from outside Parliament we will continue to struggle tirelessly to achieve a reduction of a minimum of 30_per_cent in university fees, for equipping public fees of grades and masters, for the absolution of the 27th and more of the Autonomous; we will continue to fight for a public and free university for everyone, also for the dignity and labor rights of the staff, of the workers and workers of the university, today in most cases. And now that we are celebrating these fifty years of May 68, we will continue to struggle for the Catalan university to be a mark of legitimate struggle for the republic and for democracy in our home. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of the Lady Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.38.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.39.0	From the escó, too?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.40.0	Yes; from the seat, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.41.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.42.0	Yeah, yeah. To express our agreement with the proposal put forward, which undoubtedly comes to demonstrate what the priorities have been in recent years of the Government of the Generalitat. Of course they have not been – they have not been – the students, it has not been the university. And yet the university, Catalan universities are better than you, because we must celebrate that we have public universities in Catalonia that lead and stand out among the rankings of the best universities. If all the time, effort and resources, and all that wasted and wasted public money that has served nothing, that has only served to manifest its failure, would have been destined justly to the public university, we could surely celebrate today greater successes and better results. Look, I have heard the speeches of those who are in favour of this proposal, and I just have to say a little appreciation: to me it seems to me that to say that English is a tool of the future it seems to me that it is to be late to the times. It is not a tool of the future; it is a tool that is basically already in the language needed to compete in this globalized world. I think we would have to be more risky in those proposals. Today, what is needed is to have a public university and researchers at those universities who are developing projects in precisely the areas we should highlight. And, in fact, Catalonia is a place that stands out precisely for that dynamism, for that dynamism and that leadership capacity in areas such as biotechnology or medical science. And that's why we need to incorporate not only the knowledge of languages such as English into the university. I'd go beyond that. Having a second or a third language, in the case of Catalonia, is no differential fact. We need more and other tools – for example, computational thinking – that are absolutely necessary to present us before the new times. That is why I support the proposal, the proposing group, and of course highlight the failure of the Government: a lot of recourse for nothing and little for what is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.43.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote on the joint papers submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republic Parliamentary Group. Therefore, we will call for a vote, I insist, to vote on the papers presented jointly for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Long break.]] Well, we would vote, therefore, in the first place, the transactional message on the issue number 1, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. Therefore, we vote first on the transactional issue of motius exposure. The vote begins. Okay. This transactional..., this transactional item has been approved by 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then, if there is no objection, we now vote jointly on items 2 and 3. Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Presented for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. So let's start voting on these two items: 2 and 3, together. Okay. They have also approved for unanimity, namely: 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Therefore, this law is approved, as the single reading was initially approved, with the incorporation of the items that were voted for; that is, the first transactional item and items 2 and 3, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and Parliamentary Group Republicà. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion for a resolution on the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[250-00114/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. This proposal has been presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Group of Catalonia, and, therefore, has the word to present the initiative, in this case, the deputy Andrea..., Mrs Andrea Levy, for a time of five minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Allow a moment, Mrs Levy, that there are doubts about the time of intervention. [[Pause.]] Yeah, it's clear: it's two minutes of intervention for the group, and in the case of the subgroups, obviously, it's five minutes, huh? Therefore, she has the word, for five minutes, Mrs Levy's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.44.0	Yeah, I'm starting. Today we are presenting a motion for a resolution necessary for the democratic quality in Catalonia, and of our public institutions. Today we present a PR because Televisió de Catalunya and the Catalan radio cannot continue to embarrass apart from Catalan society; they cannot follow TV3 and Catalunya Radio disconnected from Catalan homes that do not feel absolutely identified with what is broadcast there. TV3 has become a clear device for spreading propaganda harmful to democratic coexistence and has become a political tool in its strategy of intimidation of the dissenter. And I say well that it has become a clear political tool in the strategy of intimidation of the dissenter because this Member – because this Member – has been threatened by the director of Televisió de Catalunya with legal actions, with a complaint to do her job, which is to make, with parliamentary rigour, criticism of this medium of communication. But, above all – above all – this PR aims to ask the Socialist Party to amend itself. This PR aims to ask the Socialist Party to do what it did not dare to do in the Senate. You know that we, in that pact that we reached, that agreement that we reached in those grave moments – in those grave moments – that was going through Catalonia, wanted to take control of the public television and radio media, because we considered that it was seriously affecting peaceful coexistence, because the more necessary it was for the media to call calm, to call calm, to call serenity, and to make a political speech for all Catalans, what they did was to escort themselves, what they did was to be even more sectarian, and what they did was to clearly adulterate the political debate in Catalonia in an unacceptable way. That is why we ask the Socialist Party to do what it did not dare to do in the Senate: to make clear what is happening in the public media in Catalonia, to make clear that it is not possible to have public media in Catalonia that what they are doing is advocating violence with the CDRs, that what they are doing is invisibiliating part of Catalan society, which has already disconnected that channel. Look, I don't have to be taught what TV3 is. I was born with TV3 at home. I've seen most of the shows on TV3. And I have done it – and I have done it – when being Catalan was a way of holding citizenship in a cosmopolitan way, in a diverse way, in a plural way, not as you now want to impose, that being Catalan is an exclusive way and a way of hating those who are our compatriots and our brothers. So, lessons from what it is and what it should be TV3, none. What you should do is stop clearly manipulating for political interest, in the interest that that is a platform of your ideology, those channels and those media, for which, by the way, I am not going to mention the whole course of abuses that have been made. The Central Electoral Board had already had the opportunity to warn a speaker in Catalonia Ràdio about what she was doing. You will already have the opportunity in the European Parliament to see what you are doing when you bring criticism and personal data from judges to these programmes. It's not a hearing problem – it's not a hearing problem. We already know that since they have specialized in two million independenceists, there they are leaders, because they have no competitors. If it's the trial TV. If it's the independence TV. Fortunately, the rest of us can opt for other chains – fortunately. It's not a quota problem. I know that we are invited – I know that we are invited – to the non-independenceists. They expel non-independence viewers; they invite us. But that does not mean pluralism, that means that we are invited to, by and to talk about their subject, the only thing that interests them, as we have seen here, not the universities, not the Catalan students, the process, to which they devote all their efforts. That's why I'm asking TV3 to go back to the style book, back to its ethical standards. I ask the Socialist Party to amend its mistake and to say that TV3 should in fact have been controlled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.45.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. Then, to defend the papers presented, he has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera, Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. And I would like to begin by saying that, well, what the PP proposes, presents a proposal for a resolution on plurality in public communication media has as little credibility as when citizens present a proposal for coexistence, but in parallel it is criminalizing the unions and then lynxing the teaching of public schools in Catalonia. This is the credibility that the People's Party has when it presents this young man. [[Greetings.]] And already focusing on the content of the proposal, the past legislature the Popular Party presented a motion in defense of the plurality of TV3 and now it does it again. And I say the same thing: the plurality of corporate media is better, much better. But I'd like to know if his intention is the existence of the most seen and the most opinions that truly reflect the reality of Catalonia, or if what you want is to throw at everything that is not under his control, because the trajectory that you carry leads me to confirm the second. And so I would also like to take this opportunity to insist that it means plurality, because it seems that some people just want to denounce a certain lack of vision of their political parties, and they feel important, very important. And I'm already telling them that we, like political space, have times when we feel underrepresented in corporate media. And sometimes we don't think it's right. We also believe that it is essential that the media see more women, for example. And from there we want to thank the pocket that makes the movement where the women are, that puts on its reports about our lack of presence. And the entities that defend common rights must also appear. And there must also be the sexual and gender diversity that exists in Catalonia, and the ethnic and procedural diversity, and age, and content. Where are the programs, for example, from culture to TV3, right? Or the corporate media? Therefore, we welcome the plurality, but all the plurality and not just the one that affects us, to our own party. But, let's move forward, because the PP is going to ask for media with more plurality and I want to take a rest from what the People's Party does when public media falls into their hands. And I'm making them a very short rest. Telemadrid, plurality is so great that they even came to compare and identify Zapatero with ETA. That's his plurality. No, that's called manipulation. Tele Castilla - La Mancha, or as they say at the time, « Tele Cospedal : the journalists came to wander during the election campaigns because they did not want to broadcast the news, because they did not let them give true information. IB3, which is going to turn into Mr. Bauzá's propaganda bunker. Channel 9, if we want to talk to what they did with Radiotelevisión Valenciana: they didn't just leave a hole of 1,200_million euros, which produced their tank, but they lost their language, generated autooods, attacked catalanophobia. Not to mention the vetoes, censorship and information manipulation. And, yes, the summum, Radio Televisio Espanyola, who saw a limited situation. A situation in which there has been job security, which is approved, moreover, with sensations; degradation of the dynamics of work; disappearance of the negative information that affects the Government... There is everything that the professional and the information council denounced, which was met, certainly, last week with the chairman of the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament to explain it and to ask for help. Now, fortunately, the movement of RTVE Women has also been added, with the campaign« This is how it is manipulated, a space that is wide, that is plural, that is diverse and that is open to all people who want television with a perspective of gender, quality and independence. That is why we welcome this campaign, which in the end calls for something so revolutionary – so revolutionary – as to be able to do its job independently and professionally. If it's just that they want to be a public service and arrive in a plural and different way to the whole society. Because lack of impartiality, censorship, lack of information to misrepresent, neglect of data, manipulation, this is the general core of the communication media that fall into your hands, so it's how you treat the media that we pay among all, so too – blocking the public competition that will allow the reform of Spanish Television to implement a professional model of management. Because remember that the reform law was approved seven months ago and, now that all the parties have agreed to launch the reform, you are putting up with it and you are putting up with the wheels for your move. And I also take this opportunity to remind the Lords and the Lords of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left that we also have pending the reform of the law for the renewal of the governing council of the corporation, because all its members have the term expired. And I have the sad feeling that this process is beginning to assemble mass in the process of renewal of the members of Radiotelevision Espanyola. So, stop playing notebooks, stop expanding the process and stalling for media control, because that's the only thing that's proving is that you want to use them for your profit and for your own good. Last July we reached a minimum agreement for renewal, and now I have to pursue them for the passers-by to see if they are still in those positions that we approved in July or not. And the worst part is they haven't answered me yet. We need to report on the leaks that appear in the communication media. The last news we have is that David Madí did not just agree with the distribution of cargo that had been made and that Esquerra Republicana was very worried and outraged because the current president of the corporation is calling these days to measure to ensure that Junts for Catalonia continues to control this body. I don't know if this information is true or not; you, as soon as you're back, might be able to explain it to us. But, if that's the case, if that's the truth, you're not on the political level the country needs. That's the wrong way to go because Catalan television is back to being the television of everyone. But we're still moving forward on the PP's proposal. You want the president of the corporation's governing council to give the appropriate instructions to prevent it from advocating the violent acts of the CDRs. At what point – at what point – have the public media in Catalonia spoken out for any type of violence? I think that such hard information should be able to explain, should give time, should say day and should say program. Because, I'm telling you, we haven't found any advocacy of violence in the Catalan public media. In fact – in fact – I would say that what we have seen is that it is you who are polluting what the CDRs are doing, it is you who equate terrorism with public disorder, and they did so with the reform of the 2015 Criminal Code, with the forbearance of Convergence, which is all to be said. But we continue with another point that is also interesting; let's see if they know these names. Rafael Catalá, Minister of Justice, failed for interference in cases of corruption of the People's Party. Cristóbal Montoro, Minister of Hisenda, failed to benefit defrauders with the 2012 tax amnesty, which was later declared unconstitutional. Alfonso Dastis, Minister of Foreign Affairs, failed to meet the quota of refugees agreed with the European Union. Juan Ignacio Zoido, Minister of the Interior, also failed to meet the quota of gathering refugees. All four of them continue to feel like ministers of the Government of Spain and continue to develop the same tasks when they failed. This is the respect that you show before the faults made by the members of the chamber. And at least – at least – they have had the honesty to accept the message that City has presented to them on the subject of Vincent Sanchis' reprobation, because you come today to re-prove the director of TV3, when the previous legislature has already been reprobated and I myself was the one who presented the motion that was approved with all votes in favor of the opposition. And we did it because at the time we thought it was an absolutely partisan name, that it did evil TV3 and its credibility, and that it posed in question the independence of media and its plurality. And I have to say to them: I don't seem to be well either that Vincent Sanchis threatens to fight against the People's Party and against Ciutadans; I don't seem well, because I think we're already guys, we're already fed up with so much justice in Catalan life. Now – now – the accusations that have been made by the citizens and the People's Party say that TV3 is a key device of the coup d'état, which incites the all-rounders to the street, that TV3 is a danger to the coexistence of Catalonia, these statements seem to me to be irresponsible, false and destructive. The two of you, Citizens and the People's Party, have entered a dynamic of "see who says it the biggest, they only blow, and their only intention is to continue with the confrontation. They don't have a minimum of seriousness or will to change things. And, finally, today is Press Freedom Day, and we also want to make a recognizance of all the professionals who are leaving the hair because we get a true and contrasted information. Public communication means are an essential pillar of democracy, a democracy that is unfortunately in low hours and is patent, is very low. The Catalan public media are much better. But precisely because we want them more plural, more neutral, more diverse, the People's Party cannot set the standard nor can it give any lessons. And if we believe – and we are not convinced – that TV3 is a national television that must be made a European reference, we cannot continue with the notebooks, we cannot continue to play power, nor can we continue to ignore that Catalonia is different politically, but also social and cultural. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.47.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. It's coming back to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. Mr. David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.48.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, if it seems to you, let's set aside... In point 2, indeed, we have tried to reach an agreement on the criticism that is made about the apologia of violent acts of the CoRs. We have enjoyed including other organizations at this point; in the end it was not possible. We'll abstain at this point two. But, come on, we understand that it is true that it is possible to combine the right with the information of any act that is produced, come from where it comes from. I have just been told by the representative of the commons; that is to say, the representative of the Government wants to be held in prison by MPs to criticize TV3. I agree that maybe the criticism was a little exaggerated, but, well... this debate we can have here. But a government representative wants to be arrested by a member of this Parliament because he criticized it, man, the level, the director's level. [[Funnel veils]] – yes, yes, no..., yes – the level of this director – the level of this director – man, it's a bit hard level, huh? – It's a tough level. [[Widow's remorse.]] So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.49.0	Keep quiet, please – keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.50.0	So, yes, it is true – and we will vote in favour of this apartment – that this director, who should already be reprobated, who said: "I always do what the Parliament says... No, he doesn't always do what the Parliament says, because this Parliament told him that he had to fold, and he didn't do it. Therefore, this director, man, with these statements doesn't do well on public television and doesn't do well on communication media, and I would say it doesn't do well on the government either. Also accepted, we will also accept item number 4, to ask that at the first session of the Catalan corporation come the directors to talk about what is going on. Since September of last year we have no body, and many things have happened, and the logic is that these directors come to talk about public television. I hope we're voting for this point, because, if not, we're having a corporate meeting I don't know who with. It's logical that they're coming. [[Funnel veils]] – Exactly– it is logical that government representatives come to talk about everything that has happened in these practically six months in which we could not have meetings of the Catalan corporation. And we will also vote in favour of the last point, because you are right, that is, the director of the "body" – and you say the Catalan corporation's style book –..., all professionals – and in this case the director of the Catalan corporation must set an example – in the public sphere, they cannot take positions in relation to political and social debates when, for the work they develop, our impartiality can be compromised. And that's what happened – that's what happened. When a director of public television participates in rallies and acts, the impartiality of the corporation is compromised. So... let's see, and not because I say it or because I want it: it's what the style book says, which we've all approved, of the Catalan corporation, of what they can and can't do, in this case, the representatives, the professionals of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. And let's go to the first point. For me the first point is the most important, Mrs Levy, the most important of all. Why do you know what that is, this first point? The one that the Socialist Group has proposed in the Senate. You're bitterly complaining that the Socialist Group in the Senate proposed... so yes, that's just what he proposed, what you're presenting here now. Now you go here and introduce him. Ah! So, look, we'll vote for it. We did it in the Senate and we do it again today. We want some communication media, as we said in the Senate, with a series of features as you say it presents here. Mrs Levy, what's the matter? I mean, he couldn't vote there, could he? Look, we're voting the same here, exactly the same, Mrs. Levy – exactly the same. And at a time when the application of 155 public media that do not depend on the Government – that do not depend on the Government – that depend on this Parliament, the Socialist Group – also the Ciutadans Group – proposed that these media functions with a public service, with certain conditions of true, objective, balanced information, respect for political pluralism..., yes, that is what we voted for Ciutadans and ourselves, effectively, an active promotion of civic coexistence, effectively, we proposed to the Senate. But I remind you one last thing: Mrs Levy, you in the Senate have an absolute majority. Do you know or not? Do you know, that there is an absolute majority, the People's Group, in the Senate? Oh, no, don't you have it? Don't you have an absolute majority? Yes, you do. You could've voted against that, couldn't you? You could also vote against non-intervention in public media in the middle of the election campaign, and you didn't – and you didn't. And I think they made it right – and I think they made it right. Look, if you now have a little bit of a bad conscience, because Ciutans are too tight, that you're not doing everything that was to be done on public television, it seems perfect to me. But I didn't pay for it with us. No, I did not pay for it with the Socialist Group – I did not pay for it with the Socialist Group – because they are not right. Lady Levy, you're not right. Therefore, in this sense, all the support to the Members of this Parliament who have made criticisms, which I do not share – which I do not share – on public television but who do not deserve that no one wants them to be in prison for these criticisms. But I'd love to finish, and the Republican Left and Junts representative for Catalonia will hear me... there are things that do unite us, huh? , there are things..., and we've seen it at the back of the control committees, and the rest of the doorman also... we've got a change in the law pending. At this point we have much advanced – much advanced –... I think that this law could be approved with an extraordinary urgency procedure, because practically if..., go, the debate we have practically done, only have to clarify a couple of points; therefore, I believe that yes, on this topic we can advance a lot. We all agree on what public media must be like, huh? In this, there is also a practical unanimity among all parliamentary groups. And I think that's what we need to stay with, huh? The public media in our country also need you to give Parliament, among all of us, a unanimous view of how it should work. Communication professionals need this support from the Catalonian Parliament; I think we can go a long way in this direction. Indeed, today there can be situations in which there is no agreement, for which the parliamentary groups represent; I do not discuss it. But we also have the duty and commitment to avoid situations like those that have occurred on the part of the director and to give support to what all professionals are talking about. And I insist, and to finish: they have happened at the length of the control committee, if we take a rest from everything that has happened, complaints about bias, excessive government decision-making that is taken by the directors of the Catalan corporation, a lack of plurality... I think that all this we can continue to denounce from the opposition, we can listen to the answers that are given by the government and, above all, I insist a little more, give support to the task that the professionals of the public media do. In summary, Mr President, in conclusion, we will vote in favour of the joint motion except at this point 2, which unfortunately... and I believe that, despite the efforts that we have all put on the table, we have not been able to agree. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.51.0	Thank you, Mr. Perez. [[Greetings.]] It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the turn for Mr Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.52.0	Well, good morning; thank you, Mr. President. MPs, MPs... in the real world, the values that must prevail on a public television must be the public service. I read: "The impulse of knowledge and respect for the values and principles contained in the Spanish Constitution. The transmission of a true, objective and balanced information of political pluralism. The active promotion of civic coexistence, the plural and democratic development of society. These are the words of the Audiovisual Communication Act, a law passed by this Parliament. And in the real world it should be like this. Public television in Catalonia should respect all those principles contained in the law. What happens, that on TV3 there is a parallel world, that is the parallel world of TV3, where Mr Puigdemont is president, in the parallel world of TV3; where paranormal phenomena occur: information disappears, flags disappear from Spain..., in the parallel world of TV3 there are people in exile. In the parallel world of TV3 there are advisors, and in the parallel world of TV3 there is a reality show by Mr Puigdemont that is constantly accompanying you in your adventures across Europe. Paid, that is, for all Catalans, of course, where things are said like: "Enter the centre of operations of Carles Puigdemont to Waterloo, on each dimarts there is a meeting of which we appoint the legitimate government. This is the day-to-day teleprocess, this is the day-to-day reality of Mr Puigdemont. We laughed, I also do it with a tone seeking that irony, but it is very serious, because if it were a private television, that Mr Puigdemont pays it, because then there would be no parliamentary control, but it is public. Do you know the concept of ‘public'? Do you understand that all citizens of Catalonia pay for it, think what they think? And we have lived a stage, moreover, where, as I said, Mr Puigdemont has been persecuted, literally, recording him for all his walks, to the point that they go to conferences, also, even, where there are a number of questions that bother, right? It's those typical questions that come up at a conference, awkward. What do we do? Paranormal phenomenon, they disappear. At the conference in Denmark, where he was incredulous... then, someone who thought he would tell the truth, did not appear in the TN news. No, no, Why? Because Mr. Puigdemont had to be helped, because he was having a bad time with those questions – another paranormal phenomenon. There is a huge list... – there are seven_minutes left, I can't explain the whole thing – but, in any case, we've had an uncontrolled TV, that's what happened – we've had an uncontrolled TV. What do you mean ‘ out of control? ' That it was not subject to parliamentary control that requires public television. And some of them live very well, out of control. Well, except, that's right, the Electoral Board. By the way, the Electoral Board has done more in two weeks, than the ACC has done in twenty years. In two weeks of Electoral Board, that ACC in twenty years. We already know how the CAC works, which was, among other things, reprimanding that neutrality was being violated, had to be done by the Electoral Board, not the CAC, of course. And some get angry, when they control them – some get angry –, some who charge a public salary, because they are directors of radio and public television, they get angry when there is parliamentary control and they threaten to complain against deputies that we exercise our control work to a_medium, I insist, public. Well, there are some who do not just want to be angry, that anger is legitimate, but also they are dedicated to making rallies with the « stellate, which is the director of public television in Catalonia, makes rallies with a « stellate and, no longer satisfied, says, well, because..., to do with the « stellate already do them directly with Junts per Catalunya... [[applause]] , and makes a meeting with a political party – with a political party – with Convergence, is invited to a meeting of Convergence, Junts per Catalunya, Mr. Cuminal, who was also ex-parliamentary of this Parliament and fellow member of the board of the corporation, and is with the director of public television in Catalonia in a meeting of Convergence. And it's all right here. That is why we have proposed, in this motion, and we are grateful that our amendment has been accepted..., but not because Citizens say so, is that the law says so. I already know that to you the law..., the law matters little, but it is that the law says that you cannot participate in political acts. It makes sense, Mr Sanchis can participate whenever he wants in a political act. It would be more! Who am I to tell Mr Sanchis not to participate in a political act. You just have to do one thing: stop being a director of TV3. If you stop being director of TV3, go to whatever acts you want, get involved in a stellate and do whatever you want, like any citizen. But it is forgotten that he is the director of public television in Catalonia, that we pay all Catalans, so he cannot make rallies, no longer even with the « stellate, no longer with a political party. It seems to me, really..., already, to cross the barrier that Convergence invites the director of TV3 to hold a rally. I think it's amazing, as I tell you, but these things only happen in the process. In addition, a gentleman who is rejected, we have recalled earlier, other colleagues have also said, rejected, I insist, a major reprobation, from the parliamentary point of view. Why? Because even the UPC reprobated it, with all due respect to the ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, it was reprobated, too. They agreed until Citizens, Podemos, the Socialist Party, the People's Party and the UPC, blamed Mr Sanchis. It is a crack, the only one that has managed to agree to the whole opposition and the CUP. That's him, Mr. Sanchis, the director of public television in Catalonia. Well, Parliament, with its democratic mandate, reproves him; but no, he remains the director and nothing happens here: we continue to hold rallies and they invite us to all rallies, by the way, as I say, paid for by everyone. What comes to show, this whole series of inconsistencies, is that they do not want to have a plural and high-level public television; they do not want to have a television where no Catalan changes channel because they are ashamed of what is happening on their public television, because it is also theirs. They do not want a television where there is no parallel world, a television where paranormal phenomena occur, which disappear information and criticize the president. They don't want a TV where they stop being TV-Puigdemont to be TV3. They don't want a TV where it's not a constant reality show of what the fugitive from justice is doing. They don't want a TV where all Catalans are ultimately respected. And so much so that we have a paralyzed law, we have said it before, other spokesmen have also commented, a paralyzed law; and a law of reform of a public television can be carried forward, we have demonstrated it in the Congress of Deputies. The spokesman for the Communes also said this before: a law can be made, so that it is more plural, so that the systems of choice of positions are chosen better. We have carried it out with a consensus, now it is paralyzed, as we know, the PP does not like the law; but, in any case, it can be done. I say this because before they applauded, the gentlemen of Convergence, but what have you done in twenty years in Congress, for changing Spanish Television? They are now in the Mixed Group and they can do virtually nothing, but when they were strong, what have they done to change Spanish Television? Why do they applaud when they talk about a Spanish TV reform, if in twenty or twenty - five years they have done absolutely nothing to change public television? That's right, to vote for tax amnesties with the People's Party, that's what they did well. Therefore, we can change the law of public television, lack of political will, consensus, we need generosity, too, and I believe that we, the spokespersons, in the last legislature, in that exercise we did to try to get out and not be paralyzed, as it is right now. The goal is to make a better TV, but the goal of separatist parties is not to make a better TV, it is to see who controls TV3. If you are fighting, literally – figuratively, politically, you understand me – through the corridors, through the control of Catalonia's public television. Is that really the only goal for separatist parties, with TV3, to see who's taking off the phone? Is that your goal, fighting to see who's taking off the phone? Because it's all we're seeing, that battle. Look, you're competing for second and third place; we know you're competing electorally for that. The first lost him, because he won Citizens' elections. But in that competition of Convergence and Esquerra, constant, which is what the process is, because the process, in the end, is nothing more than a competition between Esquerra and Esquerra, in that competition that you have for the second and third place, do not also put the public television of Catalonia. I already know that you have it very difficult to form a government and that you argue a lot about chairs, but don't also put on public television. I already know that you worry a lot, if in the end it will be Esquerra or Convergence who controls the public television of Catalonia, but no longer compete, because there is another Catalonia that is also Catalonia, which you do not like, among them there are voters of Citizens. You don't like those, and some of those voters, other parties, too – I dare to speak on your behalf, with all due respect – don't like many of the things that appear. Look, I see a convicted terrorist, like Mr Otegi, on public television that we all pay and that also pay victims of terrorism, laughing at the president of my party, I do not like. I don't like to be applauded for a joke about the president of my party, a terrorist convict like Mr. Otegi. I don't like it. « Did you have fun? I'd say a tweet later. No, no, But not me, I'm sure many Catalans haven't had any fun, but, well, a tweet from the official account: "You've had as much fun as Mr. Otegi? No, no, I am not amused by Mr. Otegi, for all the jokes he makes, and even less amused by jokes that attack the..., in this case, the president of my party. In this case, millions of Catalans are represented by our party. I don't like it, you guys might like it. Therefore, stop using TV3 as an executing arm of your process. Stop charging Catalonia's public television and let's look for a TV that represents us, that does not embarrass us, that we do not have to change the channel because we feel ashamed when we see Mr Otegi laughing if, in this case, the first party of Catalonia, which is Citizens. It is enough, once and for all, to use politically. We shall therefore vote in favour of this motion. We are grateful for the amendments, which have been accepted, the one on political acts, the one on reprobation, and for the work, too, that has been done from the subgroup of the People's Party, with regard to accepting those amendments and the compromise. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.53.0	Thank you, Mr. de Paramo. It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Josep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.54.0	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first intervention in this forum, and I wouldn't want to miss the occasion to remember how unfair it is that I can't make this intervention with all the deputies that are supposed to be, because a few are in prison or exile. And I start: welcome to the story of an obsession, we have seen it, we have heard it; welcome to the millionth chapter of the story of the obsession of the People's Party, now subrogated to his friends of Citizens, with the communication media of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. A story that goes from the moon, that follows the same guide from years ago and that continues to repeat one time and another. But, as the finger says, "Brams d'asse do not reach the cell. In case, I'll explain what you mean, because it doesn't end with the little bit of the letter: it means that what you say without reason doesn't deserve to be met. Look, you're at the motius presentation, and then you're also complaining about the motion for a resolution, and the mayor of Paramo has read it, remembering the points in paragraph 3, of article 26, of the Law of the Audiovisual Communication of Catalonia. And they do very well to do so, because they assume the closest possible description of what TV3 and Catalunya Radio are. I will also quote this Law: "Methods that promote knowledge and respect for the values and principles contained in the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy, the original Community law and international treaties. A group of media that convey a true, objective and balanced information, respectful of political, social and cultural pluralism and also of territorial balance. Media that actively promote civic coexistence, the plural and democratic development of society, knowledge and respect for the various political, social, linguistic, cultural and religious options and manifestations present in Catalonia. The law, actually, says this, and the corporate media, actually, are this; another thing is that you don't like it – because they don't like it, it's obvious – and, from their uniforming mindset, from any kind of anecdote, with the sole purpose of presenting, one time back to the other, its reflection to the totality of the Catalan public media. There are things about TV3 and Catalonia Radio that I don't like either, and I'm sure other Members of my group have other preferences, but not for that – but not for that – let's confound what TV3 or Catalonia Radio should be with which we would personally like. Fortunately, the corporate media are in the hands of professionals who know how to interpret, beyond personal tastes, what is the general interest, and the CAC, the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, which is the body in charge of control, thus corroborates it. The data closes this and contradicts you: TV3_has chained up eight years of audience leadership, and the data from this first quarter of 2018 is the best run of the last years, with more than 14_percent of media screen share. But I have more bad news for you; the data for the month of April came out: the average audience was 15,1_per_cent, the best of April of the last seven years. TV3_has been the most valued generalist for the audience as well, according to the index of the independent company of investigation of GfK opinion markets, with 8.5 points, a score more solid by the mean. The information – yes, the information – are prominent leaders in all editions, with a 25.1_per_cent audience, and the second – that is not Spanish Television, which is fourth – has a 10.4_per_cent. In credibility, TV3 is also a leader, with a 95.5_per_cent. And, for its part, the audience and credibility data of Catalonia Radio also continue at high levels. We also have the ACC report published last December, made to the institutions of this Parliament and which, once elaborated, was approved unanimously, on the plurality in third parties to televisions in relation to the reference of '1 October. TV3 is clearly the most plural, with 55_percent of opinioners in favor, 38_percent against and the rest in myths. And I will only compare these data with those of Spanish Television: a 2,1_per_cent of opinioners in favor of October 1, a 97,9_per_cent against. And it is very important to remember that all these data have been recorded while Mr. García Albiol said that he had to turn TV3 and make a new TV with normal people, and at times when you, some of you, are proclaiming that the public media continue to intervene directly on it 155 – indirectly already applies, obviously –; at a time of economic impact of the media, above all stop from the unjustified retroactive claim of VAT by Minister Montoro; at a time, ultimately, of campaigning for its part of contempt for the Catalan public media. If one thing contrasts with the other – objective data with the obsessive campaign, with the reality of Mr De Páramo – we may have to come to the conclusion that his defamations are also making a decisive contribution to the magnificent audience and prestige of TV3 and Catalunya Radio. And you, with these audience, quality and credibility data, want to fail the director of TV3? And are you complaining that you're willing to defend yourself in self-defense of your offenses? You, in the motion for a resolution, cannot provide more evidence than the four times that the Central Electoral Board gave you the reason, many times; the evidence provided by the same Central Electoral Board that acted under the application of 155 and that came to ban the color groc in the public fonts of Barcelona, the concentration of opinions in support of political prisoners or the groc ties to the electoral colleges. [[Greetings.]] I don't want to say anything more about what is information interest and what is party interference. Because here the question that you are not a fan is what kind of television model we would want for Catalonia. I'll just talk to them for a moment about Channel 9, Valencian television. I'll talk about it, because I do see it – I don't do it like you do, talk about televisions that you don't see – because I lived for a while in València for professional reasons and saw it. It was, Channel 9, full of the absolute majority of the People's Party, and I saw a lot of misproposals and manipulations; I can't go into details. Because we've all seen the Valencian public television directive involved in cases of corruption and even sexual harassment, and like this whole bunch of journalistic and management misproposals ended up with Channel 9. Is this, like, the TV model they want? Or is it the model of Spanish Television? The model that last week a representation of the Spanish Television Information Board – the journalists, the same workers – denounced to the Brussels Eurocambra, and they are also campaigning for the networks of very brave professionals who explain the manipulation and censorship imposed for the direction of the Spanish public channel. Is that the model? That's why they don't want to talk about it, no. They prefer to complain that TV3 informs – textually of its PR – of the acts of protest that are organized from Catalonia. Arrested from Catalonia, yes. Isn't that news of things going on in Catalonia? The right to information is a fundamental right, recognized in the Constitution, but you are not violating so much that you no longer see them here denying this either. Look, if TV3 is advocating something, it's from the right to the information. I'm done. You don't want public media better in Catalonia: you want them to control them in their own way, or, well, when they can't, to use them to trigger confrontation and hatred. That's what they do. What happens to you and your citizens' friends is that they don't like TV3 because they don't like it in this country, they don't like it the way it is in this country. [[Widow's remorse.]] They don't like TV3 and Catalunya Radio [[remorse of the voice]] follow the reflection of the true...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.55.0	Quiet, and please – quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.56.0	...diversity and complexity of Catalonia. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.57.0	One moment, Mr. Riera...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.58.0	Some mediums...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.59.0	...a moment. One moment, Mr. Riera, one moment, please. Just keep quiet, and please... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're gonna have to keep quiet, please. [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen, you guys have... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.60.0	I have said « reflex of the true diversity and complexity of Catalonia. A few media that in plurality and rigour stand the comparison with international reference media. A television and radio with faulty and better but fulfilling its function established for the law. For all this, they must have already deduced that our group will vote against its motion for a resolution. And, finally, a recommendation: abandon your obsession and, if you really want to serve Catalans, demonitzin minus TV3 and look more TV3 [[remorse of the voice]] – and don't talk as long as the others talk –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.61.0	Please, be quiet. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.62.0	...critiquin menys Catalunya Radio...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.63.0	Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.64.0	...and listen to more Catalunya Radio. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They need a little respect for the chamber and, above all, for what you have... [[applause]] , especially for who has the use of the word. You're gonna have to respect that. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It has the word Mrs. Rodriguez, by the CUP. Why ask me the word, Mr De Paramo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.66.0	On a point of order. [[Pause.]] I would ask you to refrain from comments like the one we have just received from my parliamentary group, saying that we are not Catalonia. We are so Catalonia... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] We're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.67.0	You're gonna have to keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.68.0	We, even if it hurts you, are as Catalonia as you are.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.69.0	Listen to me, Mr. De Paramo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.70.0	...so much, so much, so much, so much...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.71.0	Mr. De Paramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.72.0	...as much, as much, as much, as much as you. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.73.0	Yes, are they? [[Pause.]] Well, it's Mr. David Rodriguez's turn, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.74.0	Well, thank you, President. I don't remember who once said that in a democracy, communication media are more important than political parties. Sense of doubt, because a democracy works, it is fitting that the citizenry is informed correctly so that it can evaluate the performance of the governments and reflect it later on their preferences at the time of the vote. Don't let me tell you, you know that perfectly well. So that in a parliament we can talk about communication media, especially those that are public or that operate with public resources, should be normal and desirable. Now, the debate should focus on how we can improve the transmission of plural, truthful and objective information; but that is not what you are pursuing in this motion for a resolution, even though you want to see it. First of all, because you are ruling in the State, and if this really was your real concern, we would see that these measures in favor of plurality, truthfulness and informative objectivity are a concern for you; more quickly we can say all the contrary. You, who have been in charge of tying up the information of the Interior Keyboards and preventing the Spanish citizen from seeing a report that any European country would have shaken the foundations of the State... The lack of information plurality in the Spanish communication media is alarming; not to mention public communication media, when the very workers of Radio Spanish Television are denouncing the information manipulation of the people. You are the ones who have "been ETA, the tempts of Madrid and the shameful manipulation of information, at the heart of the gravity of those facts. They still have to apologize. And they're still talking, in this PR, about "violation – between comets, I'd say – of the CDRs. Here the only violence that we have witnessed is that of the people who attend the demonstrations that you also watch, throwing stones at TV3..., sorry, Catalonia Radio; in fact, to TV3 journalists and Catalonia Radio, who will have to attach the logos of their microphones so that they can avoid being assaulted. What little shame. And let me give you a parenthesis: with these antecedents, it is a scandal that I do not allow an investigation in his parliamentary office in Madrid of the storms that have occurred this August in Barcelona. Those who have opposed it some day will have to give many explanations. I'm in parentheses. I recommend that you follow the hashtag #SoSeManipula, which drives the Women RTVE platform, where many journalists are denouncing how the manipulation of us by the PP government is produced. But the problem is TV3 and Catalunya Radio, right? We are in favour of talking about the Catalan public communication media, which certainly have many things to improve, because nothing is perfect, and we have to work to improve as much as possible. I hope that the newly formed Catalan Communications Media Corporation Control Commission will soon be convened and we can address the different issues of the Catalan media. Now, let's do it and we demand to do it from the honesty of settlements, not from the partisan and dishonest use. What the PP claims today with this PR – and in this they compete to see who says it the biggest with the Ciutadan Group – is to designate the Catalan public communication media as those in which they do not respect the basic principles, and especially for what they do to plurality, that they should govern the public information communication. You don't know what we are here to attack the communication media of the Catalan corporation, as well as what it does to the Catalan education model..., from which you have not made a flag, basically because these you can't manipulate them. Today you are complaining about the lack of plurality of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, but when they invite them they do not go. They're not, because they say they're not plural communication media. And the question is, how can they be plural, if you don't invite them? Maybe that's what you want, isn't there plurals who say otherwise? With whom undefeated end? – in fact, uncontestable no, because it's been a while since it seems to me that it's been quite explicit. Actually, what you would really like is to turn on TV3 and Catalunya Radio. So Catalans should inform themselves at the communication media that you control. If they really care about plurality, how come they don't do anything to improve the Spanish media? It is shameful the lack of plurality of these for which it refers, for example, to the Catalan current of later years. He is a fan of debates about Catalonia without the perspective of Catalan independenceists, even being a majority in Parliament. It was precisely in 1997 that the Catalan Audiovisual Council was created as an independent regulatory authority in the field of public and private communication. As you know, its function is to age for rights and freedoms in this area, and also for political pluralism. Of these types of people there are not many European countries, but not Spain. Do you really care about the plurality of media? Why don't we create an audio-visual board in Spain that you're old for plurality? It won't be that you've had enough of the plurality of Spanish media. A recent CAC study denies allegations of lack of plurality in TV3 tertuli and highlights state channels. Thus, for example, in the pre-October 1 tertules, on TV3, the participants in favour of the reference were 55_per_cent, while the unfavorable participants in this were 39_per_cent. We can discuss whether the xifra seems to fit what it should or shouldn't be. In any case, it seems a very reasonable percentage and respectable with the political plurality of this country. On the other hand, on the 24 Hours Channel and Telecinco, all the opinionators were opposed to the reference; at 1st and 3rd antenna the percentage of these exceeded 97_percent. And the problem is TV3, huh? They're so used to listening only to their version of the news, they can't bear that there are plural media in which we don't think how you think. Clearly, you are the heretics of the Node. Another data on the plurality of TV3 and Catalunya Radio is provided by the 2016 CAC report. I'm sure they've looked at him. I don't think reading the report is a very honest thing to assume that these public media have neither the PP nor the Citizens, more quickly to the contrary. Let's see if it'll still turn out to be doing the crying. According to this study, from the information about Parliament, a third of the time is allocated to the Government and the rest, to parliamentary groups. From these, in the two media, the first two, with difference to the rest, are Citizens and PP. Now I see that TV3 and Catalunya Radio are very painful. It's a clear independence strategy, as we can all see. It's not a trick. They do so because the discord between what you preach and the reality that people see is so great that they just push independence. Go here, it's you who push independence with your actions. Actually, you... well, it was ironic, huh? I guess they got it, huh? [[Rialles.]] In fact, you vote for that football team that he likes to play hard, and so that he infuses the referee from the 1st minute and every foul played against all the players will open up around the referee complaining about the decision. Often this has reward and the arbiter, intimidated, doesn't like to fill all the gaps as he should have done. It's the same thing that they were doing in this Parliament last parliamentary term, complaining to the president that they didn't let them talk, until Marta Rovira left them in evidence when she showed the speaking time that the different groups had had. Mirin, we will vote against this PR. We will not play the game to people who cheat, who use public communication media with a clear partisan interest, that the only thing they seek is to generate doubts about the professionalism of Catalan public media so as to discredit them, but not to improve them, because, in fact, they have never been estimated, the fans and they would like to see 'extended'. In Catalonia we have had public communication means that are an example of an information model, and we have also had resources to control and monitor these means. If they really want information plurality in communication media, they have work, and they don't do it. So many good gifts of Spanish Radiotelevision get nsurtin. As I said to the beginning, because democracy works, communication media are more important than political parties, and in Spain there is a great lack of democracy. Today, which is World Press Freedom Day, we cannot do this a little favor and approve, precisely to you, a proposal on this. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, of the Ms. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.76.0	Good morning. However, we have already said this: it is a bit of a laugh that the People's Party is precisely present, with all vehemence, a resolution to demand that it is unable to complete and at a time when they have the Spanish Radiotelevision template as revolted as ever for party manipulation. The same ones that were clogs of ruining Channel 9 in the Valencian country. The same people who, when they had the opportunity to manage public media, to Badalona, for example, with Mr Albiol as mayor, what they did was to place an ultra of the FAES as manager of the Television of Badalona, Alberto Fernández Saltiveri, who, of course, went from public media to being head of the Popular Party. I am not very grateful, Mr Albiol; I would be concerned. Precisely today, World Press Freedom Day, it is even more injuring that you bring to Parliament a proposal that once again demonstrates that the only pressure they want is the one that sends its propaganda. What can we expect from a party founded by a French minister, author of a press law, that of 1966, that what he did was to pursue all those media and journalists not aligned with the rule? A law that brought to prison great professionals like Josep María Huertas Clavería. Because, yes, gentlemen of the PP, the media, all of them, have to be public and have to do a public service. I leave behind the workers and workers of the public media in this country, that the only one they do is to scrupulously complete their professional mandate, with the international principles of UNESCO's journalistic ethics, where in their eighth article they indicate that the good journalist defends the universal values of humanism, in particular pau, democracy, the rights of the man, social progress and national liberation and respect for the right of every people to decide freely. Yeah, decide freely, your right to decide. Some journalists who, according to the same UNESCO code, in their new article, and I quote textually, must have an ethic compromise for the universal values of humanism that prevents against all forms of apology or incitement favorable to any form of violence and also ensure respect for the rights and dignity of all nations. The UNESCO Code of Ethics, of which, as I imagine you will know, emanate the rest of the professional principles of world journalism, makes it clear that journalists, before the violation of rights and violence, cannot be neutral. In the face of governments using repression, governments like yours, there can be no neutrality. Because journalists are no longer the notaries of today as Mr Fraga advocated; they are the guarantors of a fundamental right such as the right to information. But, in fact, you don't care about journalism or its ethical principles, the only thing that worries you is that a television, TV3, is a leader with more than 15_per_cent of audience and a quality index of 8.4_on_10; quality television and with audience, and they can't stand it. But, well, let's focus on some of the requests you make in your PR. They say some things that, objectively, we agree with, like the need to transmit real, objective and balanced information, respectful of political, social and cultural pluralism, and also territorial balance. Of course, we agree. We are convinced that TV3 and Catalunya Radio stop paying close attention to everything that goes on in Barcelona, and those of us who are from locals know very well. We would also agree with the need to show more equitably and fairly the diversity of the country's life. What can all our lives and our lives be white, men, professionals, city people and heterosexual? Well, we also want sensitive television with social demands and their various forms of manifestation, and not with economic powers. You pay a lot of attention to pursuing those two structures that have potentially done more to make català the language of social use, the cohesive language of this country, because to you the one that bothers them precisely is this. And precisely what you don't know is that both of you, one structure as well as the other, were linked to the civil fabric, to the struggle and to the republican experience that was lived in the years of the anti-fare and the Transition. And concretely in the case of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, they also came out and put the first work in the Catalan Culture Congress, where there was already a demand for media with a social council representing media workers, cultural and civic entities, and groups organized by viewers, as well as the participation of workers in management and administration bodies. And why do I explain all this? Because to the future government, to the Republican Left and to Juntes Per Catalunya, it is essential, we demand them with all the vehemence that it is not shared in the direction of the public media of this country, that we make a parliamentary election process for two thirds of the chamber, that it is one of the mechanisms to protect pluralism and democratize what is of all, and it is the most effective way to actually have Republican media serving the people, democratic and transparent. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.77.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Next, to indicate the items that are accepted and the text that is put to the vote, you have the word Ms Levy for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.78.0	Note whether they have little interest in defending TV3 and neutrality, which have been dedicated to criticizing other channels. They even talked about the Node. I don't know, I imagine you must have the Node connected in the morning or before going to sleep. I've never seen him. Instead, for example, TV3, yes; yes, I have seen TV3, and very much – and I have told you the Club Super3, Poblenou, Malalts de tele, Amor at first sight..., I could quote a lot of them – when, of course, they did not try to make TV3 an artillery, an artifact of confrontation that invisible part of Catalan society. Then you could see it. Therefore, do not give me lessons that if I see, want or do not want TV3, do not be mistaken; I want you not to steal me, do not continue to steal TV3, as you have done in recent years, and that I can feel it and that I can see it as a television of quality, neutral and accept political pluralism; political pluralism that you do not confuse with quotas: that you invite us is quotas, pluralism is that we only talk about what you are interested in and what you like. Man, gentlemen of Podemos, I've been told that if... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] O Catalunya... forgive me. But I'm more of Podemos, I like Podemos more. Well, what I wanted to tell you. Man, of course, give us lessons of censorship and such, when you, when you arrived at the mayor's office in Barcelona, loaded yourself with a plural program of political chat as La Rambla was, and I'm sure you know it, or when you arrived at Badalona Olla of grills, it's not that you're very interested in political chat. To regret – to regret, to regret – once again the complexes of the Socialist Party. I know this issue bothers you because you have always enjoyed being part of the landscape, in a friendly, friendly way, to see if this is how you liked the independenceists. And it's just that game they're wrong about. We wanted a state pact of constitutionalist forces, so we wanted to reach an agreement. With Citizens, yes; with Socialists, too. We would have liked Podemos, but it is clear, from what has said the intervention of the Jesuit companion Albiach, who are more interested to be with the independenceists and the CDRs. We would have liked to reach that agreement, and that's why – we wanted to agree, and that's why we would have liked, and we would have liked, to reach that agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.79.0	Lady Levy, time is up. I remind you that you have to position yourself to respect the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.80.0	Well, but I'm going to tell you why I'm..., I would have liked, of course, for us to have come to that agreement to open doors and windows on TV3, to open and take out TV3 to manipulation, to sectarian debate, and so we could have had media that reflected Catalonia's pluralism. Finally, I would like to thank the citizens for their speech, for the amendments, which I believe enrich the political text. And, of course, from here we ask the director of TV3 not to threaten us, because no intimidation is going to cause us not to continue defending what we believe in, what we are fighting for, which is, of course, media that reflects us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.81.0	Yes, Mr. Pérez; why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.82.0	Miri, only separate vote for point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.83.0	Thank you. Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.84.0	Vote separate from all points, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.85.0	All right. Therefore, we shall proceed to the vote separately from all points. I understand that all groups have the final text as it was after the transactions, huh? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we shall proceed to the vote on the first point of this motion for a resolution, I insist, as has been negotiated. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. This was rejected by 39 votes to 78, with 17 abstentions. And now we're going to vote number three. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. And we will now proceed to vote on a quarter of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. And we will now proceed to vote on the fifth and second reading of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with 8 abstentions. There is no more opportunity to vote on this motion for a resolution. Therefore, we suspend the session until two-quarters of four. [[The session is suspended at two-quarters of a half-and-thirty-minutes and is resumed at two-quarters of four in the late and three-minutes. He chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary General and the late Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.86.0	Good afternoon. Let's take back the Ple. [[Proposal for a resolution on the application of guaranteed citizenship income]] [[250-00125/12]] The fourth point of the order of the day is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the application of the guaranteed income of citizens, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. In order to present the proposal, Mrs Marta Ribas spoke for a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.87.0	Thank you, President. Before I begin the defense of this proposal, allow me a little incis. Since our parliamentary group, we have also wanted today to express, in this Parliament and in the plenary of this Parliament, our congratulations on the fact that ETA is finally dissolved. I believe that this Parliament, which has never been a supporter of victims or a supporter of this subject, today, as it is today, we also need to be able to express, or in this way, that we are happy that, as much as the forms in which it is produced, we agree more or less, today we come to the end that we all wish that it is finally that ETA is dissolved. And today, as always, and we will continue to be there, today we also continue to be with our thoughts and our hearts, with all those who have been victims of this last European terrorist gang that was still active in our country. I am now speaking in defence of the motion for a resolution with which we believe that this Parliament, again, has spoken of the real fracture that exists in our country, that it is the social fracture, that of the poor, that of inequality, that of the risk of social exclusion that has been addressed to so many people, to so many families, with the crisis, with neoliberal policies that have been tried to emerge from this crisis and with the insatiable desire to enrich some at the expense of the impoverishment of so many others. Today, in this Parliament, we are talking about a real Catalonia that hasn't appeared in this chamber for a long time, a Catalonia for which the calendar is running for a long time, waiting for solutions to have a minimum of dignity, a Catalonia that doesn't understand that the exceptional political nature of the moment can go hand in hand to give an answer to the vital need to guarantee relief, light and peace to those who need it. And in this I want to think that we can include all of the members of this chamber, that no one will have the tempt to leave today, in this forum, to justify that they are not guaranteeing a minimum of tickets for a dignified life, to whom they are right, for a situation of political exceptionality that Catalonia sees at these times. Because to say this would be to admit that some have caused this political exceptionality to the country or that others have kept it or widened it, unnecessarily, and to know that for the way they are leaving so many people behind, that they expect there to be a government, that there are assumptions, that there are enough, that there are the measures attached, to get out of this situation of misery or to bring them to social exclusion. Today, as I said, in this chamber, we will speak of poverty and inequality, and of the bravest measure the Catalonian Parliament has taken in the past few years, which is Law 14/2017, of guaranteed citizenship income. It's a law that was passed on July 20th of the year, in this chamber, unanimously. It is a law that came from the citizenry, through popular legislative initiative, with 121,000 signatures behind it. It is not, therefore, any law; approved unanimously of this chamber, with an ample support city, you know well. But, above all, it's not because of the object of the law itself, because it's a law that regulates a new right of citizenship. And that doesn't happen every year in the Parliament of Catalonia; in fact, it doesn't happen even every legislature that rules us subjective rights of citizenship. The law came into force on September 15th, as you know, of the past year, and, seven and a half months after the beginning of its deployment, the information we have about its implementation is very worrying; worrying because there are gaps in the management of the law's deployment; worrying about silences or responses that arrive late or poorly, few argued, to the people who have made the demand for guaranteed income from citizenship, and worrying about opacity. Finally, from the deputies and deputies of this chamber who have asked for information respecting how this law is being implemented. The few public data on the current state of implementation of the law show that it has been completed in the initial phase of granting guaranteed citizenship income to those who were already having minimum income or to those who had very low non-contributory pensions and who are completing the supplement. But beyond these cases and these collections, from the new requests made in these seven-month and six-thousand-thousand months, according to the department – only one thousand new citizen-guaranteeed returns have been granted, one thousand. At least 70 per cent of requests, according to the same department, have been or have been denied or not admitted to transit, and also, according to the same department, more than 12,000 shippers are still pending. Of these three figures it is acceptable in this situation of social exceptionality in which the saying that we are living in our country, as it is also acceptable that there are collectors who are left out of the service and who should not be left there, like homeless people, like women victims of male violence, who require support to refer their lives, like young extolled, with multiple family units in a habitation... They should not be left out. They'll tell us that this has to be fixed, solved, with a rule, that the law doesn't provide for some cases, that some problems have arisen... sure, and I want to believe it. But it's also true that we have more evidence that this law is applying with the most restrictive reading possible. It's because of political cowardice, it's because they don't believe it, or maybe because they're doing what exactly perverts the essential meaning of this law, they're adapting the law's application to the presuppositional game they had for the guaranteed income of citizenship, when the law, precisely, regulates a subjective right, not conditional on presuppositional availability, and therefore they're perverting the law's meaning, if that's what's going on. Allow me to add a few numbers to solidify this statement so forcefully that I am making. The minimum income of inserting the rebien, at the beginning of the year, 29,000 beneficiaries. This was already a supposition of 170_million euros. They added, last year, 70_million extras to the assumption of the minimum income of insertion. The same government tells us now..., those responsible who continue to function, in the Government of the Generality, tell us now that only these collections that at this initial stage have been incorporated into the guaranteed income of citizens, of the minimum income of insertion to guaranteed income of citizens, the increase that has entailed them in the contribution that each of these people, in general, receives, contains about 50_million euros more. If only 70_million euros were added, 50 have only been paid the minimum income, plus there are additions to the people who had basic benefits, right? I mean, it's not that they've only approved a thousand returns because it was the only one that allowed them to assume the 240_million euros they had in the budget? If that's the case, bad news. They are absolutely grasping the meaning of one of the essential elements of this law, it is a right subject not conditioned to presuppositional availability. Look, we think before this situation, we need to be clear and clear. We can't afford this situation. We cannot allow ourselves not to respond to the vulnerability situations of the people who, if we abandon it, will fall each time more at risk of social exclusion. We cannot allow ourselves to generate frustration or sense of injustice between potential beneficiaries for mismanagement of the law or for lack of follow-up of these potential beneficiaries who are making their requests. We cannot afford to put at risk the credibility of a law that required a lot of consensus in this chamber to be approved, that was approved unanimously by the Parliament of Catalonia and that came with so much social support. We cannot risk the credibility of this law. We cannot allow all folds to be broken, even more, due to lack of transparency in the information on the evolution of this new subject right. Transparency is essential for not only a follow-up of its implementation but, above all, for detecting problems and for finding shared solutions. From Catalonia to Comú We may want to build, continue building, follow shared solutions to improve the application of guaranteed citizenship income. In any case, never boycott this law, which is ours and which will continue to feel ours and defended for us. It is in this sense that this parliamentary group we have tabled this resolution, a resolution that demands three very basic and urgent points, so as not to lose the direction or the objective of the law and to be able to search for these shared solutions: u, transparency; two, strict compliment and not restricted from the law, and 3, resources to ensure the follow-up to people who demand guaranteed citizenship income. It is three things, very basic, but not debasable in any sense, for the sake of excuse, for the sake of political exceptionality, because no political exceptionality of the moment can pass by to give answer to the social exceptionality that has seen so many people in our country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.88.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. It's back now to defend the papers presented. It has the word, in the first place, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.89.0	President, Members, Parliament's workers, first of all, a special thanks to the members of the committee promoting and to all the people and entities who made the guaranteed return of citizenship possible. And he said "in a very special way because some of them have tried to manifest themselves at the gates of Parliament and it could not be possible. We are already getting very tired of a right as well as the right of assembly being able to exercise at the doors of our representative chamber. With regard to the motion for a resolution... and, of course, we should also make another point and a deeper reflection on the part of the groups and sub-groups, such as in a critical and self-critical way: that one of the most important laws approved by the Parliament of Catalonia in the last few years has as its origin civil society and not by parliamentary groups or sub-groups must provoke this deep reflection of what we do or do not do, sometimes, in this Parliament. We say, yes, that we respect the motion for a resolution of the commons and that our vote will be positive. We thought that – and we think so – the agreements that incorporate better management of the way in which the guaranteed income of citizens is to be developed and, moreover, we consider that they also improve, this management, the ideas that we wanted to provide in the motion for a resolution. We want to make, yes, a clear manifestation of absolute concern about how the guaranteed income of citizens is being managed. And this criticism of the fact of two visions. The first, which we see as the wind that is moving, is the classic form of neoliberal performance management; all the neoliberal classics of how to manage a performance. And the second, which makes reference to the good part of the documentation and information that we have not yet rejected finds its origin – and then we will develop it – in the reality that means Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. That's right, to explain what our position is and how critical we are of managing the guaranteed income of citizens, we want to read a letter; a letter that was sent by the directors and directors of the SOC's work offices to the advisor and head of the department. Certainly, the strongest hug and all the solidarity for a counselor who is in prison today. [[Greetings.]] We will read it in part: "We remember that just two years ago, all the directors of the jobs offices of Catalonia, collectively, from the highest institutional respect, but tired of taking on excessive workloads at the length of this long and deep crisis, we started a series of actions to denounce the institutional abandonment and structural shortcomings of the resources in which the jobs offices are found. Now, we have a lot of reasonable doubts. The main resource that will be needed will be the human resource. It will greatly increase the seedlings of the work offices. Now, we don't know how it can be done; most offices don't have space available. In the best of cases, they could accommodate two or three more people, the quantity of all insufficient. And another question to respect: will these people have the necessary experience in public attention in complicated situations? Do you have time to adapt and form? Mass doubts. We can still add another point of concern: it follows from the announced intention to beget it in September, just at the exit of the summer. Even though the parliamentary procedure and the rest of the legal framework make it possible on paper, we think that it is very hasty and that there is much to do before putting it on the market with guarantees; guarantees of a good service to the citizenry, guarantees of having the necessary resources, guarantees of being properly trained and of having all the information. We know from experience that the processing phase is where it is possible to generate defencelessness to the citizenry, accumulations, disorder, misinformation, generate unfounded expectations, changes of criteria, etcetera, which are quickly transformed into alterations, conflicts, frustrations, extremes and other types of undesirable situations, if it does not start with all the guarantees described. I didn't say until this letter wasn't written to the genera or March of this year 2018, but it was written in June 2017, and unfortunately it has been completed by now all that the directors and directors of the work offices have already advanced. And, in the band of all this, worse actions with neoliberal logics; resolutions with generic responses and with incorrect data; requirements, again, for documentation, when the same fixed legislation that an administration does not have to ask for a documentation that it already has; do not make the payment when it gives the positive administered silence, which was one of the great conquests that this law incorporated. We, from the CUP - Constituent Creed, are fully aware of the difficulties that the Catalan Administration has had since September, and especially since October 2017; but let's say another thing: our priority – and it should be a shared priority for all – to rescue people. And it can't be wrong at any time about who has a vulnerability situation from the economic point of view. Our day, in a very clear way: the republic, or we build it as a strong state, a strong social state, or it will not be a republic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.90.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. It is now the return, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.91.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. A special greeting to the promoter commission, which collected more than 120,000 signatures, and which today accompanies us from the public. Catalonia in Comú brings us a motion for a resolution that basically asks for transparency, loyalty to the principles contained in the law and the allocation of resources for its compliance. Citizens, of course, will vote in favour of all the points of this proposal, not only because we are an interested party – in February we ask for information about the total applicants for the benefit, the refusals, the resignations of the applicants, we even ask for the budget allocation of the law – but also because what you ask for is of the most reasonable, the normal thing you expect from an administration: transparency, good administrative practice and resources for the proper application of a law. Still there are things that are said in the explanatory statement that we cannot share. It is stated that the lack of regulation or the lack of establishment of the commission to follow up and adjust to the law is due to the current situation of lack of government and to the application of article 155. And it's that this doesn't hold up anywhere and you know it. To say that the lack of regulation of a law is the fault of the exceptional situation that we live in Catalonia is to be very far from reality, because the lack of regulation in Catalan laws is an unwritten norm. If for something are characterized the different governments of Catalonia is for not deploying the laws. And I'm going to give you just a few examples: the Accessibility Act of 2014, which has no regulations; the Rights and Opportunities in Children and Adolescents Act of 2010, which has no regulations; the Support for Families Act of 2003 in Catalonia, which has no regulations; the Social Services Act of 2007 in Catalonia, which has a decree which deploys the Social Services Portfolio – which is, by the way, more than expired – and which does not have regulations, or the Family Reception for Older Persons Act of 2001, seventeen years after its adoption and still has no regulations. And this is a criticism of this endemic evil that we suffer particularly in Catalonia: that laws are passed that are very necessary, some that have been pioneers in social rights, but that remain on wet paper after taking the photo and leaving in the headlines, because they are kept in a drawer and do not unfold. The laws must not only be passed, they must be believed and given the human and economic resources necessary to guarantee the rights they collect. Let it be said that this is the fault of the exceptional situation or of the 155 not surprise us, coming from Catalonia to Comú, because you, when we do not know where to find you are always next to the independenceists and we cannot share the intentionality given to you in the explanatory statement. It is true that the law was passed in July and that just a month and a half later it already entered into force, but in the course of that month and a half we all knew what the Government was dedicating to: it had all its energies focused on striking democracy. They had time to make illegal censuses, campaigns for an illegal referendum, use public centers for that referendum, which even used the CAPs. They went to CTTI, the Centre for Telecommunications and Information Technologies, for millions and millions, but not to implement a powerful computer system to manage guaranteed income from citizenship, no, those millions of euros in computer were for the computer system of the coup to democracy. For all that, they did have appetites and money. So part of the situation we're in right now is because of a government that at the time of implementing the law wasn't why it had to be. Because governing means facing reality and solving the problems of citizens, not creating imaginary republics with the resources of all Catalans. In recent weeks, much has been said about the application of the law; among them, therefore, the high percentage of denials, the improper justification of some of them, the management of the files..., and I want to put some of those that we are most concerned about. The high percentage of denials has been mentioned. The Secretary General of Labour gave the data last week: 70_per_cent of applications end up being denied and, of these, 50_per_cent is because the applicant has received some income in the last six months, especially from precarious jobs, from contracts of days or weeks, and very intermittent. I believe that this is reason enough to generalise complementarity with income from work, beyond single-parent families. A report presented by the Third Sector Table last December warned that more than 234,000 people in Catalonia have incomes below €710 and that they mostly work on part-time contracts. According to the same report, in the previous year the number of poor workers in Catalonia grew by almost thirty-thousand people. About 40_percent of the people Caritas helped in 2015 came from households where at least one of its members was employed. This is the result of the various labour reforms, both those of Zapatero and those of the PP, of the failed labour policies that have fostered precariousness without offering protective measures to workers; this is the result of governments that have been unable to provide solutions. And yes, the crisis has hit the most disadvantaged sectors more brutally, but it has also affected the middle and working class, and new forms of poverty have been created. We are faced with new realities, such as that of the poor worker who is working for income levels below the poverty line. That is why we have tabled an amendment to fully develop article 4.1 of the law, generalizing, just one year after the adoption of this law, the complementarity with the income of work to give solution to those Catalans who rise up, go to work, work hard and lie down as poor. We have not been accepted either by Catalonia in Commu or by the Socialist Party, which has put forward a very similar proposal. And if we are told from the Department of Treball that 70_per_cent of the applications have been refused, that half of these refusals are because the applicants have a part-time contract or have had a part-time contract in the last six months, I wonder: what do we expect to generalize complementarity with the income of part-time work? What good is it to put the cry in the sky regarding the percentage of denials if we do not put a solution to it when it is in our hands? From Citizens we hold that we must move from protest to proposal. Criticism for criticism is useless. And what the citizen expects of us are no longer problems, what the citizen expects is for us to put solutions. Solutions, moreover, that combat the submerged economy, why instead of working in black the citizen will prefer to take a contract job because he will contribute, something that will serve him when he receives a retirement pension. In addition, the Administration is also interested, because this complementarity does not discourage the signing of a contract of employment, not to mention that wage supplements are highly redistributive measures that have been shown to be very effective in the countries in which they have been implemented. So, yes, we can share the criticism of the Generalitat's bad administrative practices, but if the Department of Treball recognizes that 50_per_cent of the denials are due to part-time contracts, from Citizens we cannot share the criticism without proposing solutions. What the citizen expects are solutions, and more so, the citizen to whom this law is intended, which is the last social guarantee for those who do not have the means to survive. The citizen cannot wait for us to give the desire to complete this generalization with the income of the work in order to be able to fill the refrigerator or pay his bills of light. And speaking of solutions, recently the pension debate is on the table and one of the things that we have been told since the Department of Treball was that they had detected that the pensioner collective did not ask for the complements offered by this law, most likely because of the ignorance of its existence. We have therefore tabled an additional amendment, which we are grateful that in this case it has been accepted, to carry out an information campaign aimed at the pensioner group to inform them that there is this complementarity with the guaranteed income of citizens. Red Cross, in its report on the chronification of poverty, warned us that in the coming years in Catalonia there will be a very serious impoverishment of people over sixty and five years old. And so it is so necessary, therefore, to make known to pensioners the complements offered by this law, thus reinforcing the lower pensions. I said this the day we passed this law: I am very proud to have participated in the paper, because this law has room in that Spain with which some of us dream, for which we struggle from the institutions, because we believe in that social state that works to promote the economy, to guarantee equal opportunities and that in turn does not leave in the gutter the citizens who need it most, putting in their hands the tools necessary to return to the labor market. That is why my parliamentary group will continue to work to propose and provide solutions, and will support all measures aimed at improving the management of this law. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs. Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.93.0	Hey, nice late. Mr. President, deputies, deputies, workers, workers, representatives of entities and guests. I want to address the position of our group, Junts per Catalunya, to the motion for a resolution of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão on guaranteed income for citizens starting to argue some of the points of this PR that urges a certain time for justification and that has remained in the end in the margin of fifteen days. We consider that it does not matter as much if the follow-up information on the deployment of the Guaranteed Citizenship Income Law is easy within a week, fifteen days or a month, because the important thing is to facilitate access to information, transparency, compliment in a strict and consistent way of the Guaranteed Citizenship Income Law, as was the compromise of approval. In the third point, we would like to take into account, in addition to the training of professionals, the subject of applied consulting, which allows the professionals a constant clarification of the doubts that can be held at the time of care and processing of the consignors, especially at this time that our society is characterizing each time more for plurality and diversity and that there may be different elements of harm, stereotypes, encouraged by ignorance and rumour, which could generate malice and shock. I would also insist on the need for a constant evaluation mechanism to help improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the profession in the care of the citizenry. We also celebrate the transaction at the same point 3, which incorporates the need for a civic guaranteed income guide in different languages. This shows the sensitivity to the linguistic plurality of Catalonia and the attention to minorities and the citizenship of different origins. But, in a global way, our reflection between the mark of this PR, and in relation to the guaranteed income of citizenship, we call it social justice. What does that mean? The commitment of the right state to reward the unequals that can arise in the market and in other mechanisms close to our society. The government authorities must provide the necessary conditions because all our citizens can develop mainly in economic terms. This means, with other words, that there should not be many scales of social differences. And in view of the fact that inequalities do not only lead to a decrease in productivity, but also to the creation of poverty, exclusion and social instability, and even emotional imbalances and self-esteem problems, there has been a recognition of the need to establish some basic rules to guarantee opportunity, prosperity and a decent minimum life for everyone. The extent of the global poor, the great disparity of entrances, the precarious situation of some minorities, of migrants and refugees, the vulnerability in which the great people live, the shortcomings suffered by the disabled people or, better said, with functional diversity, the wage inequalities that still exist between men and women, among many other problems, show that our society is not fair in many ways and that the guaranteed income of citizenship is a tool that seeks to cover the basic needs of any citizen and protect him from the poor, while guaranteeing a minimum entrance to life. And that's why his promotion is justified, for the purpose he wants to achieve. A system that guarantees social justice in a society is translated as respecting the fundamental rights of the human being, as a government and its representatives give answers to the inequality that generates the various economic activities. When public bodies guarantee social justice, there are fewer shortcomings and conflicts, and people with scarce resources do not fall into social exclusion and marginalization. Therefore, social justice seeks to protect in its vast majority the most fundamental rights of the city, such as life, the right to a decent habitat, the right to an occupation and to form a family, rights that allow the development of the person, its economic and social growth. The guaranteed income of citizenship was the most important social measure of the government of President Carles Puigdemont, which was approved on July of last year, for unanimity in this chamber. This stage of positive confirmation of social government has been put to rest for later events, which have not allowed full application and a favorable deployment. And, unfortunately, the misdemeanours and negative effects caused by the cessation of the Catalan execution through Article 155 of the Constitution are, in effect, making the entire city of Catalonia ill. Moreover, we cannot deny that the lack of government, the complications and the passage of them to the possibility of forming them limit us and make it difficult for us to regulate the law. But this does not take away the need for a better and a self-criticism on the part of political managers. We can't fall into desanimity and we need to learn from mistakes, which would allow us to do more by adopting a better regulation, taking into account the shortcomings and limitations that citizenship is patenting. I ended up insisting and expressing our position as the Junts group for Catalonia, and reflecting on this PR, on a subject related to social justice, such as guaranteed citizenship income, because we cannot hear the claim of the right to self-determination and sovereignty, the aspiration to a new, conscious, equal and fairer paradigm, without a project of better living conditions of all people living in our country, Catalonia. The guaranteed income of citizenship is one of the tools to be used for this purpose. For this and for many other things of a fighting nature against inequalities, we have the obligation to strictly and correctly complete with our commitment to have an active escort, an active escort to constructive criticisms. And we cannot, above all, fail... to the citizenry in basic issues linked to human dignity and social justice. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.94.0	Thank you, Mrs. Laouaji. Now, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, it's Mrs. Irene Fornous' turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.95.0	President, members of the Bureau, deputies and other people who are late with us, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. I would not want and believe that I could not begin my intervention either, the first one I do in this Faristol, and with more motivation still dealing with the subject of what we are talking about, without having some words for Constellera Dolors Bassa, who, without any doubt..., without her will, her tenacity and above all her involvement, the law of guaranteed income would not have been possible, a law the purpose of which is to protect people, those more vulnerable people, to look and seek that they can have a more dignified life. And I quote a fragment of the same law: "People or families who find themselves in a poor situation have the right to access a guaranteed income of citizenship that assures them the minimums of a dignified life. And, yes, we are talking about dignity, and all of us here will allow me, or most of us, and they will understand that you can't go through it, when we are talking about dignity, not deixi, from this Faristol, to denounce and remember the indignant situation in which at these times the Lower Dolors is found, adviser to the Department of Labour, Social Welfare and Family, ceased by article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. [[applause]] , now unfairly– unfairly– undertaken from more than one month ago, and already two if we have the first month he was in prison. Let's remember: a pre-trial prison without being tried, a prison that I share, imprisoned, with Carme Forcadell, president of this chamber precisely at the time that it was debated and approved the Guaranteed Income Law, in which all, I want to remember, and unanimously, they agreed, that all parliamentary groups did not hesitate to pull forward; a law that, I repeat and insist, goes with many things, but above all goes with the dignity of people, a life worthy of both the Lower Pain and the rest of prisoners and political exiles at these times the unjust lack and are private. With regard to the motion for a resolution presented to us, we are surprised by a few things, and more still taking into account the contribution he has made to the principle of his intervention, when he said that he did not want it to be just a 155 issue. And I say that I am surprised, because in the same text of his PR – and I will quote as they have written it – they say the following: "It certainly affects the exceptional situation that he sees in the country, without the political government of the Generality and under the application of 155 of the Spanish Constitution, which makes it impossible to formally approve the government commission that provides the law, parity between Administration and social agents, to make an accurate follow-up of its application and propose measures to facilitate its development, as well as the deployment of the regulation. And it's that... if you're explaining to us yourself, what I could tell you! And it certainly does, and as long as it does! And it's that there's been a lot of hard things in this country. We have a government just ended at the end of the few months of the approval of the law, and a government intervened for a 155, which has meant that it could not have done the rule of guaranteed citizen income, as they say, not to create the government commission that does not have to follow. But, despite all of this, he has also moved forward with the law's application. And that's where we also have to put in value the task that is done and done at the end, and the exceptionality of the moment, to do it with a 155 and the consequences that this has entailed in the different departments, the great work done by the public workers, who have developed their task in a very professional way and with strict work and responsibility; the same thing that I believe all of us here also have to look to keep pulling forward this law and making the deployment. And I am saying this because I hope that the intention of presenting this PR is not simply to make it an interested and partyist user, which, as a law as it is, because of the seriousness of the issues that affect it and its importance, a law that, I want to remind you again, and I have already said before, was approved and agreed with all the parliamentary groups, making this a partyist would find it a great lack of coherence, but above all a great lack of responsibility, and still, as you yourself have said, taking into account the exceptional situation in which our country is located, and also the short life that still has the guaranteed citizen's income. And from here I take the opportunity to ask all the rest of the parliamentary groups that we are aware of, therefore, and also that we are still curious and responsible for the role that we still play because the law of guaranteed citizenship continues to move forward and adapt it, as agreed, to the situations that may arise. Because it was agreed "in the situations that may become, because it is possible to implement its deployment, that it began on September 15, 2017 and that it is to end the year 2020. And in this, just as it was last July 20th when everyone agreed to approve it, I think we all have to go to one; it is a duty and responsibility of all that is for the compromise that parliamentary groups have taken when it was approved. Since the department, it's also this will, and it's not going to play to say that they're not giving themselves the real data. This same morning, the application data and the situation in which they are found were made public, and a balance of these first months of citizen-guaranteeed income was made. And it hasn't been until now that it hasn't happened, because it's the same kind of recourse that it couldn't afford. They ask for explanations because they need to know what has failed, and what this information, they say, has been denied. I think that I can remember again, even though I do not like them, that we are in a 155 and that, therefore, as you already know, you cannot ask questions by the way of government control, which must be done by the law of transparency, and that, therefore, it must be remembered that in this case the last decision, which has the answer and which can give it is not from Catalonia, but must be from Madrid. When it was debated and approved the law... that surely everyone who wanted to participate in it agreed to it, you had clear who were the profiles to whom it was intended, who could benefit, to which people or families in concrete terms it was intended for this economic benefit. And I think when so many requests came in and some of them stayed out, it's because they don't answer the conditions for which he created and which everyone agreed. They do not respond to the conditions for which it was created because, perhaps, they do not all respond to the requirements. I can't admit – and can't admit – or talk about a restrictive mass reading for part of the workers. It is for this reason that at this point in the motion for a resolution we do not agree and we cannot vote in favour. We consider it unacceptable that the workers of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families..., complete, as it cannot be in any other way – and even more functional –, the same department the legal administrative procedure that is suitable for this service. And therefore, when there is a lack of documentation, it is required, as is the rule, and the time for resolution, as the legislation makes it. And when we talk about denials, they are motivated, as it should be, by the restrictions that, in any case, were agreed by law and that could be applied with the criteria they considered. And surely, among all the cases, all those who do not comply with these conditions have remained; such as, for example, cases where the applicant or some member of his family unit have a full-time wage, or those situations of higher entrances. And this is stipulated in the same law, as agreed and approved. And yet, in the future, many of these will surely be able to gather there, because the law has already been made with this prediction, so that, surely, in the next year, some of these cases that have been left out will indeed comply with the requirements of the law. Finally, I want to remind you of the origin that came to the House of this chamber, and that it was already through a popular legislative initiative, with a great citizen support; a support that deserves all the respect that Constable Dolors Bassa and her team demonstrated at the time they took the compromise to pull it forward. Undoubtedly a compromise with which it is not worth demagicating now, with a generality intervened and with the difficulties of a functioning government, and much less, as I said at the beginning, I think we do not have to play a party game either. The more than 111,000 signatures presented to ask to pull forward this guaranteed citizenship income deserve this respect that the councillor has shown and that of all of us who now have the responsibility to continue, to continue working to finish deploying it and not to use it, in any case, to play a political game. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.96.0	Thank you, Mrs. Fornos. It is now the turn, to position itself, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. It's Mr. Raúl Moreno's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.97.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first place, greet the representatives of the committee who are demonstrating outside the scope of this Parliament, and also their representative, who are accompanying us today in this Chamber. Both the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in common and the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, we have tabled two motions – after which we will discuss what my parliamentary group is presenting – to ask for two questions in depth. The first, the compliment of the Law of guaranteed citizenship income; and the second, transparency in its management. And I will focus on these aspects, which are fundamental. After attempting to search for official data near him, to try to ask the entities to whom he will facilitate the data so that we can pass the documentation on two occasions; after asking the parliamentary questions; after asking the documentation by means of the way in which it is established in the same Parliament; after asking, after all, the employee of the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, to go to the Sindico de Greuges, we still have no data on how the guaranteed return of citizenship is evolving, seven months after his arrival on the march. This is the reality that today brought us just to this plenary. What we didn't know was that, a couple of public girls these dates, those who are supposed to not be able to give us, but they can tell them to the media and they can tell the entities, those who can't be given because we have 155 – then I'll tell you – when they've made public, they're still worse than we've expected those groups we've been expecting to see what the results were. There was a need to donate the data. There was a reason to give your face. The excuse has always been that if you know these facts there could be a misinterpretation on the part of the groups, "to do politics, as the Republican Left MP said before: "You do not do politics! And we will not give up on accountability to those who have the responsibility to govern. And today we want to be the altar of the 45,000 people who, in the best of the cases, have rejected a notification saying that they do not have the right to guaranteed income from citizenship, that it is not intended for them, that it does not touch them. Some of these denials must be, I do not doubt, fully justified, as we will surely see in the course of this plenary, and in others that are not, that are not, justified. They're not justified, because the reasons they give to deny them are not even just taken back to the law. A law which, I also insist, was approved by all the parliamentary groups of this chamber; it was endorsed by an ILP, 121,000 signatures, fifty-seven entities in the committee, more than fifty motions at the assembly meeting in Catalonia. It's not anyone's law, it's not the law of the government, it's not the law of political parties, it's a law that doesn't belong to the citizenry and it's made just for the citizenry. Aneu... we're going to try to get close to what's not ours. It is not the star law of the Puigdemont legislature, because one thing is to approve the law of this – we have brutal experiences in this Parliament – but where it is really demonstrated if the law works is not applying it. And this girl does a right to have a few decent lives for all the citizens who had trouble getting to the end of the month. It is said that this law was the paradigm that was to change social policies in our country, and it was also called a social revolution. Mil_new guaranteed returns is a social revolution? Is it true that to the parliamentary groups of this chamber, which we unanimously approved the law, it seems to us that a thousand new guaranteed returns is a social revolution? So, no, we made this guaranteed income with an ample look, with great appearance, to try to get those people who were going through it badly, those who didn't arrive within the end of the month, all and work, because they have jobs and they don't get to the minimum so that they can have a decent life. Here are people who are about to lose their habitation. By the way, it's said today, it's denunciation day in the metropolitan area. I'm saying that because while we're here talking, surely this morning there's been drafts of charges in the metropolitan area. All those Catalans and Catalans who were and are still affected by a crisis situation that have become structural poor. The restrictive application that is made of the law forces them to continue waiting in very extreme situations. It seems that the Government did not have enough to detail the minimum income for the year 2011 and to harden, to say the least, its conditions to prevent them; to perpetuate the situation of poor children in our country; to make the aid of children disappear; to stand still in front of the denunciations of thousands of families during the years of full crisis; to fail to fulfil the agreements of the poor; to maintain the precariousness of a majority of Catalans and Catalans or to place Catalonia to whom in the application of the Law of Dependence. They haven't had enough of this that they're only now accepting a thousand guaranteed returns from the 61,000 people who asked for it. Ladies and gentlemen, the poor do not understand ideology; there are poor left, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right. And our responsibility just goes to rule for all of them. Some political decisions can lead to poor situations, others can reverse them, but what is clear is that the management of the department in the case of guaranteed income from citizenship perpetuates the poverty of many of these families. If the look doesn't widen, the guaranteed income will be stigmatized, it won't be useful, they won't ask for it. We've already had the minimum income of insertion during the years of crisis. It is not useful for a person who needs tickets already, who goes from six months without tickets and who says to him: "Now you must wait for seven months to come, in the best of cases, a positive resolution. Instead of taking on the responsibilities, of seeking the agreements between the political forces that raised that law, they are invited not to make political on this issue, to leave our functions behind. And for many months they have, of course, blamed themselves outside of the management problems of the soto-government and that has been working during these months. First was economic intervention. The economic intervention took place on September 17th; on the 15th, two days before, the guaranteed income was set aside; two days later the Constellera Bassa signed 10_million euros to pay the guaranteed income to those people who already get the minimum income. He went on to 155. If 155_was a problem it would have been a problem to pay a thousand or two thousand times guaranteed citizenship. Why have they been able to answer other things that they have to do with sub-government and not with that? The lord... at this point the department has delegated the signature to be able to transmit the information and has delegated the signature to pay the guaranteed income of citizens. And for many months we have had to feel that the internal problems of this government come from 155, with 155 we can't do it again. So they couldn't have paid those thousand guaranteed citizenship returns either. Stop deceiving people and assume their own responsibilities before this management. I think I should do, among all, an exercise of sincerity. There are many people who look at us, desperate, in very extreme situations, that we generated a very important expectation when we said: "The year 2021 the person in Catalonia, working or not, will be able to collect the income index of Catalonia. That was the perspective. And this is a very complicated law, I don't say no. And it needs regulation – then I'll talk about the regulation – to try to "accurate the cases, because it's a very, very complicated law. But in any case you can come here, some political forces, saying that logically they are in favour of no one passing it wrong and that they are unable to recognize that the nine thousand returns guaranteed that these seven months have been given are absolutely insufficient and do not respond to a real situation that passes thousands and thousands of families to Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.98.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. It's Mr. Santi Rodriguez's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.99.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by referring to some previous interventions, specifically one I consider relevant, which also referred to the spokesman of the Socialist Group: we are not talking about a law of the Puigdemont Government. It's not a Puigdemont government law. It is a law of the signature of thousands and thousands of citizens and the initiative of a commission to promote it, to which I take advantage to greet, to which they are both outside and accompanying us to one of the hemispheres. But it is not attributable, this law, to the Puigdemont government nor is it attributable to the former Bassa councillor. Moreover, I would like to say, because we have lived through the whole process of negotiating the law, that this is a law despite the Puigdemont government and despite the former Bassa councillor, that they posed a thousand and a difficulty until there was an agreement or until most groups of this chamber threatened the majority group with an agreement that passed them to approve this law. That's the reality. Therefore, they do not come here now to tell us: "This is a law of the Puigdemont Government, it is a law of the former Lower Councillor. It's a law despite them. Now, if they want us to attribute them to the Puigdemont government and to the former Bassa councillor, we can do it; we attribute them the merit of being here today, talking about the development of this law. Is the merit of them? Yeah. The merit is of them and of you, of the majority of the parliament. And it's from them, why? Because this law, which was approved in July, knew and knew perfectly well that it would require a lot of effort for its application, for its inn in operation. It is an unusually delicate question for the amount of expectations I had raised – and it has risen – and extraordinarily complex for the number of people and the number of families affected. And the workers of the Catalonian Occupation Service were already advancing who could be the problems with which we would find ourselves, and did so before the law was approved. So, still, surely... no, surely, the government should have other priorities than the development of guaranteed citizenship income and should prefer to devote resources to other things that were not the development of guaranteed citizenship income. And I suppose it was a priority to try to hire international observers to make sure I didn't know what I was betting before I hired workers for the offices of the Occupational Service of Catalonia that could manage the guaranteed income of citizenship that had been approved in this Parliament. And that's the reality. And this is the merit of the Puigdemont government and this is the merit of the Bassa ex-counsel. And we have to recognize, yes, that, I'm listening, 155 is the one that has prevented the law from developing the law on guaranteed citizenship income, which I'm sure would have greatly facilitated the application of the law and the practical application of that law, okay? We don't have a lot of complex to admit that it's 155's fault and, therefore, it's the fault of those who caused you to apply 155! ; the Puigdemont Government also, of course. Says: "Home, well, therefore, listen'm, we end up with 155 as before... So it is also the fault of those who hold the majority of Parliament in this Parliament, who have not formed Government, because it has not been possible to begin to make the statutory development of the Law of guaranteed income of citizens. And that's the reality. And so we have rejected ourselves, as in the political party, we have rejected a great many complaints from a great many people who had generated expectations before this law of guaranteed citizenship income. And many people and SOC workers who complain of lack of resources, complain of lack of due diligence in responding to all petitions, and complain of responses and negatives without arguing that they had given themselves to their petitions. Therefore, the responsibility for the chaos is from who can predict the situation at its moment did not, and from the action of the Government that took as a consequence the application of 155, and, now, from who can form the Government and get out of this situation either. Therefore, our parliamentary group will support these proposals, which basically pursue two objectives: one, to seek information and to obtain information from whom are the number of people and families who are processing and who are the exact situations in which each of these petitions is found, and two, above all, and most importantly, a greater supply of resources, both personal and material, in order to be able to meet the people who have these expectations, just expectations, created by the approval and application of this law. Now, we also need to be aware that this second part..., and because this second part is effective it is also necessary that there is an effective government and that is what we expect many and many Catalans. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.100.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to indicate the points that are accepted and, in any case, as the text that is put to the vote remains, has the word of new Mr Marta Ribas, for a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.101.0	Well, I would have liked to have had this debate with the Lower Pain here too. But beyond this element of personal solidarity, this does not make us less demanding with his team, which is who is deploying the guaranteed income of citizenship. It is irresponsible, Mrs Fornos; the irresponsibility is to take from the text of our resolution only a few paragraphs and not to read the following, just as follows: "Beyond these two concrete elements, the political structure of the former Government of the Generality, which is kept in operation, has no other limitation to manage the deployment of the law, for the fact of 155, as they themselves have verbalized on various occasions. Therefore, the irresponsibility is to be of the political formation that is holding this responsibility in the Government and, today, seven months and a half after it has begun to deploy the guaranteed income of citizenship, and there are these dysfunctions that we have put forth in this debate today, in Parliament, there is no self-criticism alone. There were twelve points to this motion for a resolution. We have only rejected four: one from Esquerra, due from Junts per Catalunya and one from Ciutadans. Let me justify Ciutadans's rebuff, on the compatibility of the returns of the work, which we obviously defended, but which we want to be strict with the compliment of the law and, therefore, also with the agreements to which it came in the ponència, and we also, therefore, attach ourselves to as the tex is, so as not to modify it from a political resolution in a plethora of the Parliament. Certainly, it is cynical for Ciutadans to end up defending the rights of workers and workers, those who are champions of the defence of the deregulation of the labour market, those who in this House of Parliament bring us a motion for a resolution to attack trade union organisations, which are the main tool for defending the rights of workers and workers. [[Some applause.]] Mirin, defending this 20_per_cent population that is at risk of exclusion is giving priority to social issues at the time of bringing debates to the plenary and the first parliamentary group in this chamber that has done this has been Catalonia in Comú Pode, bringing this motion for a resolution to the debate of the plenary of this chamber. We want to be there for which we were born, to be useful to the people who need us, especially to the most vulnerable, useful people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.102.0	Mrs. Ribas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.103.0	...for these people who need guaranteed citizenship income to be deployed and deployed well. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.104.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. We're calling it a vote. [[Josep Maria Forné and Febrer ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.105.0	To ask for a separate vote from all points: 1, 2a, 2.b, 3, 3a... Well, the 3rd and 3rd, actually... the 4, the 5th and the 5th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.106.0	Okay. I'm not asking if there's any more demand for a separate vote, because he asked that he's voting for all the points separately, huh? [[Pause.]] Well, then, we shall proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution, put to the punch. We shall begin with the vote on Point 1. The vote begins. This point is approved by 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 2.a– 2.a. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 66 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on point 2.b– 2.b. The vote begins. This point is rejected by 69 votes in favour, 66 against... [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Approved, approved: 69 in favour– have all the reason of the world–, 66 against and no abstention. Now, yes. And let's now proceed to the third-point vote. The vote begins. This point is approved unanimously, i.e. 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're going to point four. The vote begins. It also approved unanimously this point, i.e. 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're moving on to the fifth point. The vote begins. This was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 66 abstentions. I don't think there's any more... [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]] Yeah? Say, say, Mrs. Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.107.0	President, I think... excuse me. I believe that the beginning of point 2 remains to be voted on. It's the first sentence. And I don't know if the 5a consider it already voted with the whole point 5 or had asked for a separate vote of 5a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.108.0	No, no, As we have not made it clear, we shall vote, first, the first part of point 2, which we have not voted and then we shall vote on 5a. Therefore, we will now vote on this first part of point 2, which we have not confirmed is a vote. The vote begins. This part of item 2 was adopted by 135 votes to none, with no abstentions. And now we're voting, so we're voting on the five-a-point. The vote begins. It was approved by 135 votes to none, with no abstentions. And now it seems to me that we have already voted on the joint motion for a resolution. [[Motion for a resolution on the denunciation of the criminalization of the defense committees of the Republic for the apparatus of the Spanish State]] [[250-00132/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the denunciation of the criminalization of the defense committee of the Republic by the Spanish state apparatus, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Cree, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of the Republic. They ask, please, that if they have to abandon the hemicicle they do it in silence. Thank you. In order to present the motion for a resolution, the proposed parliamentary groups have the word, and in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.109.0	President, Members and Members, the CoR is, without doubt, one of the most commented on in the last weeks and months, especially for attacks that have taken place in different sectors of society and in different political agents. CDR, Committee for the Defence of the Republic, so simple, even though for some media intentionally the acronym responds to "the Committee for the Defence of the Revolution, which does not fit the reality, to a reality that created at a certain time the Committees for the Defence of the Referendum and which, after the referendum, passed the date of '1 October and assumed the barbarity occurred due to police disproportionateity, decides to remain alive with the Committees for the Defence of the Republic. The CDRs are committees organised by different people working for the deployment of the Catalan Republic with a common principle: non-violence. And it is that a very large part of Catalan society, after seeing its basic rights removed, has decided to organize itself to keep alive the year of freedom of this people that wants to become a republic. As a pot of oil, the RDCs have been creating themselves and coordinating themselves from the Catalan territory, and even beyond our limits, to be a peaceful cry for defending ideals, interests and shared illusions. The esteemed and beloved Muriel Casals once told us: "We are not here to seek a dream, we are the dream. And through these CDRs we can also work to materialize this dream that many and many of us have and that we want to make real through a totally peaceful movement. They won't find us at the end of the rape. The cross-cutting nature of these committees means that people of all political sensitivities to the republic, who have as their object the achievement of a free Catalonia, are being applied to them. And that's why we find men and women of different ages, professions, backgrounds, ideas, that symbolically they give their hands when they fall, as they did on September 11, 2013, in which with the Via Catalana we linked from north to south or south to north, with the illusion of knowing that all of us share the same objective: independence. As the text of the same motion for a resolution says and quotes, "the RDCs are students, pages, firefighters, stunts, warehouses, waiters, receptionists, teachers, autonomists, caregivers, informatics, cooks, wigs, mailmen, industrial workers, retirees – the end of the quote. And it would add that the CDRs are also directors, mayors and deputies who from the political sphere listen to the cry of the people, who defend their peaceful and democratic country and who work hard to achieve an objective. From the Junts Group for Catalonia we want to condemn the constant attack on the CDR, and from here this motion for a resolution, since there are certainly people, certain political movements, certain communication media, who want to put in full a supposed rape that does not exist in any case. The CDRs are an infinite list of names that together are likely to become the collection for the Republic; names that they have by name the name of the eight Catalan surnames, but also names that have Catalan, Castilian, Northern, Southern and Arreu surnames, because this cause of independence has brought together so many sensitivities and procedures that this is no longer a thing of a few, but it is more than 2_million people that we are working to bring about a better country, which we have freely said to a new country. The CDRs are names like Marcel, Dani, Emmanuel, Marçal, Lluc and a great list, among which stands out the name of Tamara, Tamara Carrasco, to whom we have already manifested our support after being detained for forty-eight hours per rebellion, siege and terrorism. Terrorism? Unfortunately, we know what terrorism is, and we will not allow this social problem to be trivialized so hard that we suffer, because the CDRs do not commit terrorism, ladies and gentlemen. That's enough. The criminalization of the CDR is part of the state's crackdown through all mechanisms to make fear the best weapon against a whole people. But we must bear in mind that the Catalan people are no longer afraid, and from non-violent action they will continue to defend the objectives to be achieved. As I have stated, from the unitary slogan of non-violence, all the country's arrest warrants have various activities to claim the Catalan Republic, the return of institutions, the rise of Article 155, the release of prisoners and the return of exiles, and they do so with the color groc per flag, converted from a time ago to the color of hope. A color that has served us to make visible the ignominy of the oppressive state and, certainly, we have managed to get it to follow a color added to our cause, why, if it wasn't so, why would the dark-colored shirts that freely wear the amateurs to the football field end up in the rubble? What's rape, too? That's enough. Does anyone think that while some try to take their head off in Catalans and Catalans, we have to keep our arms open? The political situation now in Catalonia is complex, and I'm sure we all agree with that statement. But this complexity does not have to be synonymous with resignation, because the Catalan people have always struggled to defend themselves against the attacks that have been taking place for a few years. Do you know any of you who are here listening to me for the first time in this Faristol, what does freedom of speech mean? Is it that you don't speak? Do some of you know what freedom of demonstration means? What is it that you are not manifest? – certainly with reinforcements coming from the tour. Do some of you know what ideological freedom means? Is it that you are not ideologically free? Taxatively, they do not, they do not know, and they pile up behind the power of justice, a highly politicized justice that you see clearly rebellious, that you see clearly seditiousness, that you see clearly misrepresentation, that aims to see terrorism and that trivializes with impunity the suffering of many and many but that you do not know to see, despite the evidence, a violation. I work my parentheses to say loud and strong: I believe. Do we listen to threats and lower our heads? They attack us with sticks and we lower our heads? Are they talking about proportionality in the October 1 police action and we're going down the head? They don't validate the results from the polls and we lower the head? So no, don't lower your head. Because a very large part of the Catalan people said enough and said openly: "More alive than ever. And he said it all the time, for a lot of September 11th, as he said on October 1st, and also on December 21st. The creation of the CDRs, therefore, is nothing more than the inn on the scene of this complex situation, of this constant closure to the dialect, of this hunt of witches that we suffer every day with dismissals, threats, complaints, and of this unjust situation of imprisonment and exile. The citizen's need to organize itself in order to make a common front to the movement seen in Catalonia has created these organizations formed by very diverse people who from plurality do actions for the common objective they share. Do you know what the CDRs do? Yeah, they're actively organized and peaceful, and they're trimming reels, raising tolls and railroad fan sizes. But it is not only with this, ladies and gentlemen: it is also with other actions that end and take note, take paper and pen, of the high level of violence to deploy a starry one while many cantaries enter the reapers; to run until Alcalá-Meco, Soto del Real and Estremera, to reach Montserrat and to deploy a Grocery link to Cavall Bernat; to defend singers, artists, musicians, mechanics, teachers and students who express themselves freely; to concentrate before the courts that judge the house; to support the acts of the great artist, artists, artists, artists, artists and artists who have taught them to normally, but also to sign them from abroad, as well as from abroad; to support the acts of the great artist and photographer; to support the actions of the great artist, artists, artists, artists, artists and artists who have taught them to normally; to celebrate them from abroad, as well as from abroad; to express their own, as well as others; to support the actions of the great artist, who have not been arrested; And do you know what the CDRs are doing? Defend the teachers of Palau, assailed and defamed and insulted with paints at his institute. But we didn't ask that the best was" don't you signal us? What are we staying at? Stop victimism and lies, because you know, some band activists for 155, fit in, destroy, and make fexist attacks. What's wrong with the TVs of the political prisoners in Girona? That's enough. Our peaceful and democratic process does not go far enough and, despite your claims, we will not fail in the struggle to become a free people. And finally, I will be given a literary note, a journey to the south of the country to quote a few verses from the enyorat Gerard Vergés, poet of the Hebrew, who in his poetry « The Iberian dictatorship makes a cry not to be afraid and to continue to think, blinking and defending each of his ideas, even at times of censorship and lack of freedom: « It is good to hold the thought angry / and that which he thinks, to the captured prison. / Who doesn't want to arrest, who doesn't cavil·li; / who doesn't want to arrest, who doesn't want to grinyoli. / Curules the prisons, curules the exiles, / this country will be a low oil. So that's all there is to it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.110.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sales. Then, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.111.0	President, MPs, MPs, imagine that we are going to any country in the holiday world to visit their people, their cities, and that while you visit them you see everything from very different people who are dedicated to doing a series of things like, for example, hanging green triangles all over the place. It's not a winged or sectarian thing, because every town and every town you go see a lot of people participating in it; they do it face-to-face and smiling by day. Imagine that by night, while visiting these towns and cities, you will see a sequence of people coming up with a knife in their hands to destroy and pull out, often with an assault, all these green triangles that have been laid before the day; moreover, they often do so with their faces covered and dressed in black, sometimes with a taron color notebook in their buttocks. You, like travelers, certainly don't have much information about what's going on and, logically, what you're getting at is that you're more sympathetic to..., before those who pose the green triangles than anyone who pulls them out. And obviously the collection in which those who give up the green triangles are involved knows this, they're not fools, and what they do is they use all the possible tools because you, as a visitor, don't go home with this idea. Night people need to criminalise by day and prove that they are so painful and so dangerous that they have no right to put the green triangles. They say it's so offensive and so dangerous that they're defending that any repression against them is necessary, it's time to cut, it's time to fuck or it's time to jail. As you know more about what's going on in that country, you'll find that by day they want to change the order of things, because they believe, whether they're wrong or not, that's how we all live better. And at night they don't like it, and as they don't like it, they say that their proposal has no right to argue or vote. So far, you've read that the president of that country's parliament has been sent to prison to try to discuss the issue in her parliament. Well, today putting the debate and the focus on the actions that CDRs do would surely be entering the mental framework of those who try to criminalize them. The problem can never be over those who exercise the right of protest, because, sharing or not their claims, we would be entering a very dangerous land, we would be entering into the debate whether it is legitimate or not to mobilize, and in a democracy we would never be in doubt, because, if not, we would have democracy in doubt. So, if we're here today talking about the CDRs, it's because there's someone trying to criminalize them and, so, dehumanize and suppress a sincere move. And I think this is where we need to focus, as some people use it to suppress others. Look, there's no instinct as powerful as por; it's an affective state that can be provoked and used as an instrument to serve an interest. Human species can manage it and play it like they did... like other animals do. And the powers have a long experience. Creating false scenarios, through silence, distortion, or lying, the civic insecurity is spurred before a threat that does not exist. And in the name of stability, security, unity, coexistence, individual or collective freedoms are repressed. On a large scale, using it, democratic governments, such as Allende, have taken place to establish controlled dictatorships from Chicago, such as Pinochet. Calling on the world pau has been waged wars and countries have emerged; it can't go far all the way: using terror and through demonstrated lies, a party with representation in this chamber has sent us to war in Iraq; hundreds of thousands of deaths that you will bring your entire life to your scales. The dichotomy of making war on behalf of the pau. The civilians have the armies, the armies have the lack of weapons, the weapons have the lack of wars; that explains this world. It is the time of por, which Galeano said; for the woman to the rape of the man and for the man to the woman without by. Disappointment or false knowledge leads to mistrust, and mistrust leads to mistrust. We can find this in everyday life, when we listen to someone talking in a language we don't understand, and we automatically think they're conspiring against us. From this to good populism – or the "Netegem Badalona" – when it tries to lead to popular classes, for example, to lose work in the hands of even more popular classes, a supposed alien enemy. And the result? The por, the por of the people with few resources to a people who still have fewer resources; poor against the poor, while the power in rise airs. In fact, the origin of the rival word perfectly explains this reality. "Rival sees the term llati« rivalis, which means that he sees the other band of the magazine, that is, the other band of the river. Only by the simple fact of living in the other side of the river, if unknown, our language has made him a suspect, a rival. When in a state..., or a collectible is weak, it identifies as a difficult threat any action or dissent, and the criminalization of the CDR has exactly this objective: talk and invent about legitimate protest methods, when in reality you want to suppress a movement. The arrest of Tamara, with all the work that allows them to do the Anti-Terrorism Law – fifty "Civil Guard vans, tapats, and machine guns – answer exactly this, that the parents and seas of this country, after seeing this for television, tell their children: "Listen, do not go to cut highways, which you look at what can happen to you. And before these people, it's no longer a detention that works, but it's your own for, your own self-censorship, the one that makes you stay home. This is the invisible consequences of one per structural. And here too comes the perversion of language: « commandos, « tumultuouss, « leaders, « parties that do not condemn violence... This reminds us perhaps fifteen years ago the Basque Country. Let's be frank: here you're trying to impose a judicial report where rape is a necessary ingredient, and that goes by trying to criminalize a peaceful people who are trying to exercise their phone book of protest. I'm not saying, I'm saying the Constitution that some people like to defend. Complaining is a fundamental right. And, gentlemen, we're still free, because everyone here is passing through the soap; everyone in this room knows someone, has a tit, a tit, a socié, a thing that is, in the CDRs, and you know perfectly well that they're not violent people. But what you don't take into account is that a lot of people in this country are losing their way; they're not just losing it, but whoever's trying to provoke it is starting to have it, because, they say, they're changing their mind. When a state, with all its media powers, with all its judicial powers, with the army, with force, identifies as a threat a raging scarf entering a football stadium, what proves is that it has power at this point. And this is the first symptom that the State is going to fail. And if it's not a little bit... a whole world is watching us. Friends of Ciutadans, while some of you have gone from participating in mobilizations for pensioners, for the right to the "living, on March 8th or the Day of the Worker, but you have manifested every 12th of October at the side of extreme right groups or to demand the salary of the Civil Guard or the National Police, what they say is that it is the ANC, that it is the CDRs, that it is the sovereign parties that want to cause the social fracture. Say one person– one person–, a referent in this country or in this state, or a referent all over the world, who defends your theses; a human rights activist all over the world who defends your theses, who qualifies the sovereignist movement as a violent movement. Not one. All the while, on the contrary, because a few days ago we saw Ai Weiwei visiting President Puigdemont and showing him his commitment to freedom of speech and to the rights of speech. Because October 1st saw him all over the world. We are the same people as « No to war, Barcelona is the German city of Sarajevo, we are the people, we are the country of « We want to gather. [[Greetings.]] And you know, in a state of oppression and structural violence, the first one accused of violence is non-violent. More dichotomy. The ones who try, the ones who recriminate, the ones who complain that some consider, what do they do? Assenyalen. The ones who talk about social fractures in the classroom, what do they do? They need the flag and the object of segregating to the schools for the sole reason of the language. Who announces the social division, what do you do? Create Tabarnia. All coordinated between states, parties, media and the judiciary. A story. It makes decades that social movements all over the world opt for the path of non-violence; some against dictatorships; others, in democracy, against the loss of social rights, labor, to avoid denunciations or to claim the right to self-determination. October 1st... Certainly, Mrs. Arrimadas, Clara Campoamor, who so pleased to tweet said that freedom is being exercised, that's exactly what we did on October 1. So I think it's the responsibility of everyone to read October 1st as the act of non-violent civil disobedience that has taken place in Europe in the last few days. They wouldn't let us vote, we wanted to vote, and with an objective sun, defend the ballot boxes and defend the papers, we voted. [[Greetings.]] We got it. We did it in a nonviolent way, heroically resisting, yes, the violence of the repressive State, and that day we managed to weaken the State very much. In fact, we made for a few days the power you cease to have power over us. That's how we felt, how we felt sovereigns. The bad news for us, because there is, is that it wasn't enough to get the dialog; any fight doesn't violently seek the dialog. But the bad news for you is that we will follow, that we have taken a path and that we intend to reach the end. Look, the clearest example this Parliament has ever set, and I'm done, is Rosa Parks. Now you're saying we're not talking about Rosa Parks, are we? The woman who didn't get up from the bus. Rosa Parks did not achieve, with that action, the end of racial segregation of buses. When Rosa Parks didn't get up from the bus and they stopped her, what caused her was that she started a one-year break, a one-year boycott of the Alabama bus network. No African-American person could get on the bus. Up to two hours each day to go to work, to go and return from his work; up to two hours. While the Ku Klux Klan cremated their houses, while they were holding their own... for example, a stranger then Martin Luther King, while all this was going on, they continued. It's a whole year ago. And at the end what happened? That this came to the State, to the Courts of the State, and, therefore, started a dialog that allowed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.112.0	Vagi endant, Mr. Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.113.0	...that you end racial segregation on buses. Look, October 1st we decided, it was us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.114.0	You're out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.115.0	...the ones we decided not to get off the bus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.116.0	Mr. Wagensberg...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.117.0	...and now we're patenting detention. I'm done, President. The repression actually worked; it worked and that's obvious. But we're a lot of people who are starting to wake up from this state of shock, and the challenge we've got ahead of us is citizen. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.118.0	It's over, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.119.0	We don't think to shut up; we're very quiet because, as our friend Joan Fuster said, they just scream to see if they'll shut us up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.120.0	Thank you, Mr. Wagensberg. Next, for the CUP Parliamentary Subgroup - Constituent Creed, the lady Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.121.0	Well, good afternoon. Mobilizations in defense of the right to self-determination and of the Catalan Republic have been massive, constant and exemplary. The practice of active and non-violent civil resistance has been an indispensable basic principle, even before a police force that is absolutely out of the way against society. All this criminal rape orchestrated for an outmoded state, the popular self-organisation guaranteed the celebration of the referendum. The so-called "referendum defense committee" was a key tool in the non-violent defence and containment of polling stations and colleges, and in the self-protection of the right to self-determination, a right that is systematically denied. The Spanish State, in all its forms, has embarked on a process of criminalization of the independence movement, with the creation and socialization of a report that seeks to justify repression without limits to the purest French style. This strategy of state is not new, it has been decades that applies where the dissidence questions the anti-democratic sources of the state. A few weeks ago it was made public that the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National High Court was conducting proceedings against the committees in defense of the republic. A few days later, there were the first arrests of CDR activists. We want to remember that the committees in defense of the republic have no other purpose than to work for a Catalan republic, a republic where everyone can live in peace and with worthy lives. We are also not surprised by the authoritarianism of the Spanish State, which guarantees the 78 regime, which does not tolerate plurality, solidarity and popular-based self-organization. Nor do they surprise us, because it is not a new phenomenon, that the spaces of finding, reflection and growing collect which are born in barrels, vile, people and cities, where the community always – always – passes before the individual interests, are retaliated. They are because they can cause the privileges that they still keep a few at the expense of precarising our lives. In a context like the present, which affects us especially the women, of denying the most elementary political and social rights, we see how the will of good part of the population grows to give out to the claims of better of their living conditions by mediating the construction of a republic from the base and among all, that can serve as a revulsion of everything that represents the 78's rule. It is in this reality that the CDRs grow, spaces in which many people participate – our companies, veins, friends, our friends – ; spaces of popular organization with an autonomous character and not subordinate to political parties and large civil organizations; spaces with a great transformative potential, diverse and plural, where people participate in decisions, with a horizontal character and assembly. And it is precisely for these reasons, for the transformative power, the diversity and the strength of the CDRs, that a campaign of criminalization, manipulation and repression was launched, which was the protagonist of the apparatus of the State and orchestrated by its temptations, in the form of institutional, judicial and media power, which disguised violence and included terrorism, the expression of totally legitimate forms of protest, based on non-violent direct action, and which constituted tools that we have always served the working class and that are the engine of change and social transformation; and which we have used to claim the best of our living conditions, spaces that are full of life and enthusiasm, of fighting people, where power resides in the people and not in the tyranny of the states and the elites. The criminalization of the right to freedom of speech, freedom of expression or self-defence in the face of injustice is proportional to the level of democracy of the Spanish State, which does not only recognize a right as essential as the right to self-determination, but also serves all the media in its abst to stop those who question the current framework of relations, because they have allergy to democracy. Violence is the incitement to hatred that involves this criminalization campaign that seeks to build a bloc report and tackle the social divide between the popular classes to justify a completely unjustifiable repression, while each time there is more corruption and less wealthier and poorer with less resources. The Republican project is inclusive, it does not distinguish for reasons of origin, language or where it feels cascú, but seeks to expand and consolidate political and social and economic rights throughout society. There is no one left here, only those who, from their position of power, have used violence against the people. What's left is the rape and instrumentalization of hate crimes and terrorism in convenience. What's left is the violence of brutality and abuse of power; a violence that affects from the bottle of the barrel to the chamber, the teacher, the engineer or the wallet. Do you really believe that it can be rape to defend yourself before the real institutional rape, to protest the political persecution that affects our companies and our veins? Hate and terrorism can never be related to solidarity networks and the creation of community decision-making spaces, where people who participate take the word to talk about life before injustice and barbarism. And to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.122.0	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.123.0	Yes, Mr. President. I will finally quote the Zapatista companions: "The flower of the word will not die, the hidden face of the one who names it today may die, but the word that came from the bottom of history and the earth will no longer be plucked up by the pride of power. For us, pain and anguish; for us, joy and rebellion; for us, the future denied; for us, dignity insurrected; for us, nothing. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.124.0	Thank you, sir. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. It's Mr. Xavier García Albiol's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.125.0	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the rapporteurs on this proposal, anyone would say that we are talking about the CoRs, the defence committees of the Republic, as an idyllic movement; we would be talking, according to their expressions, about people who do what they do is to pursue, in an absolutely peaceful way, a dream. They've told us that it's made up of a plurality of the population, they've told us about musicians, they've told us about clowns... well, totally harmless people. What I want to say, in a very clear way, is that the story that you are trying to convey, that you are trying to get to us is an image..., as if they were, I say, harmless characters, as coming out of a fairy tale. The proposal presented to us today, a proposal for dignity, for the defence of the CoRs, shows the most intransigent and degraded face of independence. You are talking about people who are carrying out a series of actions, who are dedicated to coercing at least the other half of the population in Catalonia that we do not think like you. And we are not talking about well-intentioned people, people who seek, through acts or peaceful movements, to claim their rights or to claim very concrete actions. We are talking specifically about this: we are talking about cutting roads, we are talking about movements that say: « CDR, o republic o affectem l'économie. Is this pacifism? Is this the exemplary movement you want to convey to the rest of the world? Well, frankly, I think they're doing a lot of damage to Catalonia's image. Today, probably with the independent parliamentary majority, they will approve this proposal; a proposal, as I say, to support these committees. And with this proposal, which he will push forward with his support, what they are doing is giving a message to the world that in Catalonia it is intended to normalize the existence and actions of groups that act on most occasions violently. I will not tell you that it is terrorism, but I will tell you, in a very clear way, that on most occasions it is violence and coercion against those we do not think like you. Actions such as cutting roads, cutting highways, burning containers, assaulting tolls or trying to frighten those who don't think like you – and let me tell you that I know what I'm talking about, because I lived it on April 23 in my city in Badalona – for you it's part of what's politically acceptable, what's politically good because it comes from those who think like us. Really... – and given the inner answer – is this really the image they want, which they intend to transmit from Catalonia to the rest of the world? I sincerely believe that what you are doing is not only harming independence or the credibility of this movement, but that what you are doing is harming the entire population of this land. Rather than making proposals in this direction, it would be better for them to put forward proposals for support to the defense committees of the republic... By the way, what republic? – What republic? Mr. Puigdemont's, which lasted 25 seconds? That republic is the one that the defense committees of the republic are defending, eh? Is that the republic that you today seek to dignify with an approval that we believe is completely unacceptable and entrepreneurship? As I said, it would be better for them to devote their time and effort, rather than making proposals in this direction, to putting forward proposals to support those thousands and thousands of Catalans who are on public health waiting lists and cannot be served because there are no resources. Instead of putting forward proposals to support those who are moving, justifying, who believe that violence is an instrument for carrying out their demands, it would be better for them to worry about those thousands and thousands of children who in Catalonia are studying in barracks, because the Government of the Generalitat, in the last two years, instead of devoting money to building schools, has dedicated them to building an independence process that is only part of the imagination of a part of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.126.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. It is the turn, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, the turn of Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.127.0	Thank you, President. A few years ago, the historic leader of the PSOE, Alfonso Guerra, publicly said a phrase that I want to use to illustrate this debate that we are having, or this debate that we may not have. Deia, Alfonso Guerra : « I'm going to dedicate half my life so that independence ideas can defend itself – and add – « and the other half so that they don't succeed. I've always considered it to be an intelligent phrase, which must be read and interpreted. Because here today we are not, at least for ourselves, to approve or reject a resolution for or against what they think and what the CDRs do. Perhaps we could make this political debate: whether or not we have a republic, how should the republic be built? It would be an interesting debate, but we are not here for that. We are here to discuss what can be done in democracy. And yes, democratic rules serve for the CDRs and serve for many other things, even though they do not please us; to try to dedicate the myth of our life, if we are democrats, to the fact that the CDRs and so many things running around can exist and fight. Why..., I ask: do we agree with the mobilisations of the Mortgage Affected Platform? Maybe yes or maybe no. Do we agree with union mobilizations? Have you experienced one more general slot of the insides? Yes or no. The Great Pensioner, did they listen to you when these great people get involved and cry out? Yes or no. Or, for example, a part of the feminist movement: of the women's gifts, what opinion do they have? I don't ask them whether or not they agree with these demonstrations, it's not like that, today. And I would have liked, perhaps, for the speakers to stand out even more these facts. It has been said that the PAH, the unions, the pensioners, the women or the CDRs have the right to fight and exist; they have the right to express themselves as they are manifested; they have the right to express themselves and to fight for the fundamental rights that are of all, and that, thanks to the fact that many CDRs of history have fought for these rights, today we can all make them serve in this parliamentary chamber. Because... [[applause]] What are they up to? There are massive, peaceful and non-violent mobilizations. Sometimes the violence is in a lot of places, according to the one who judges it. So they're mobilising us to which they have a right. And when it's criminalizing actors, singers... because, of course, it's not just the CDRs, the CDRs are a part of a large group of people who are being chased by what you say and by what you think: actors, singers, tweeters, writers, painters and perhaps a list that will continue to be enlarged. When they're criminalizing all these people, they're criminalizing rights and freedoms that are all of them. And, therefore, this is a matter of substance. We have to think that the right to freedom of movement, the right to assembly, the right to demonstration or the ideological freedom from which we profit..., our parents and our opinions did not hold them, these rights. And these rights that today seem easy are conquered by many CDRs that played the game many years ago, saying and doing things when some of these things were forbidden. Therefore, this is the reality. Democracy consists, among other things, in defeating..., in being able to politically defeat your political adversary, not in undertaking it. That's not democracy. Democracy consists in the free debate of ideas, in the free mobilization and gathering of people, in the free circulation of people, even though what they think or say does not only please us; even so, they can come to disgust us, but they have the right to think about it and to say it. That's democracy. And when democracy is crime and it's prison and it's persecution starts to stop being democracy. And how these rights that we enjoy have cost us so much, I sincerely hope that, without or with CDRs, this freedom never abandons us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.128.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. It is now the return of Mr Ferran Pedret, on the part of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.129.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, allow me to prove to lower a cycle the rhetorical inflammation that we have been witnessing in this debate, granting to Mr. Nuet that today he managed to do two things in a row that he thought was almost impossible: first, to reconcile me with a quote from Alfonso Guerra and, secondly, to reconcile me with a good part of his own speeches. So... I have to say, too, that I agree with the principle of his intervention by showing some frustration with the inability of this chamber to have debates that could be very interesting if we were all willing to do them. Because to which we have attended so far, allow me to hide, despite the good words that have been addressed to the chamber by the representatives, the spokespersons of the independent groups have not been a debate in their own right. And I'm sorry to say that I also find that there hasn't been an honest analysis exercise of the reality of the country and what I assume we're discussing as hard and as serious as we're discussing here. Look, we, perhaps with an excess of ingenuity or with the anthropological optimism that characterizes us, had planted a series of messages to this proposition of..., to this motion for a resolution that had been presented by the CUP together with Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left. And certainly, aggravating the deference of the CUP spokesman in this debate, which went to us yesterday and, let's say, guided us to respect his predisposition, respected all of them, it was not possible to incorporate anything that we raised in this text. It was difficult – it was difficult – because the starting text is what it is – now I will enter it – and, in view of the interventions, it was still harder. We have witnessed a very well done propaganda exercise, but little more than that. Because, look, the statement of reasons for this motion for a resolution, in its formulation and also in its form, is peculiar. I think he deserves analytics. First of all, it is simply... the motivating statement of a motion for a resolution that makes three parliamentary groups in this chamber is the statement that the CDRs have been preparing for their social networks. And it's not that you have to do an investigative exercise, it's that you say the same motivating statement. In fact, beyond three lines, it is all entirely that the CDRs have published to their social networks very legitimately. But it is concluded that for these reasons it is for which the parliamentary groups undersigned present this motion for a resolution that we are discussing today. Okay. It is difficult to understand that it is possible to make parliamentarianism and it is possible to debate important questions as they are raised on the basis of the simple acritic assumption of a position on the part of organizations that very legitimately develop their activities but that then convert the chamber into a subsidiary space if the only one that we can do is to assume what they say acritically. Look, I told them that the text for what he does to his contents was also peculiar, wasn't it? , to the concrete formulation. Let us say, surely, the concrete formulation has also contributed to the formulation of the interventions of the spokesmen who preceded me in the use of the word. And it is that we are told things that, in the best of cases, with the greatest benevolence, we consider that they are a mistake of analysis, of appreciation of the social and political reality of the country; that they are a little less beneficial we attribute to rhetorical excesses and propagandistic vocation that we can understand but we cannot share, and in the worst of cases we believe that they can respond to a conception of the country against which we want to warn, and we want to debate it in this room. First of all, beyond the qualifications that they dedicate to the State, to the party that they don't think like you..., beyond that, they say: "What really makes them is the existence of a united, joyful and combative people. Very well, beyond that this is a well-conceived, well-accomplished and remaining slogan, the problem is that the CoRs are not the people of Catalonia, they are a part of the people of Catalonia. But those of us who are not CDRs or sympathize with the cause they pursue, we are also the people of Catalonia. I'm as good as you are. And here's a problem with the country's conception that other expressions that go beyond confirm. They say again: "We also have one another, rapeseed, and what scares them the most: the future. Well, I think we could grant in this chamber, since it's a parliamentary chamber, that the future does not belong to one or the other, or to a part of the people that considers itself the only legitimate representation of the people; it belongs to all of us. And we should try to build it at least with some basic consensus for democratic coexistence. This leads me to reflect on some instructions that have felt very much in CDR manifestations and later in some derivatives. "The streets will always be ours," they said. Well, then, no; the streets will always be yours and all the others, the joint venture of society, which also effectively exercises its right of assembly, of demonstration; exercises its right of association, freedom of expression..., of all of them. And you must also protect freedom of speech from those who think different from you. I will not assign CDRs for more than a painted one signed as CDR, because I don't know who to assign individual or collective responsibilities. But there are checks, there are threats to people who are not independent and to people who are independent. There have been acts of rape after demonstrations that were not independent and in contexts in which you were independent of those who attacked someone who withdrew a groceries, or vice versa, or non-independent people who attacked people who were posing them. That's happening. And you'd better tell us about it. And you'd better tell us, first of all, that the streets and the public space are all of us. Some recent weeks also showed up with this slogan and said: "The kiosks will always be ours, we have never suspected such a thing. And still some party on Sant Jordi's day, letting the convergent genre, which some journalist in this country said, "Palau will always be ours. And I'm very afraid, Mr. and Mr. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. I'd be a little upset that it was like that. And later they say: "The CDRs are the people and we are here to build the republic. All right. Again this identification between the part and the whole, huh? They're the people. So, by way of exclusion, what are the others? Have we been excommunicated from the village? What are they? This, to me, leads me to reflect on that work of Ibsen that is an enemy of the people. Because, moreover, we find ourselves often between two fires: "all, tebis, for one; for the other, "complicit in one thing, foolish; useful in the other. We've been forced once and for all from this farostol, and I'm going to do it for the first time in this legislature, but I said it in the previous legislature, to tell everyone that when it comes to looking for enemies of the people, to making lists of traitors to the country, we claim the first place in this list you do it. They do it with the "pit and colons that were feeling joyfully and combatively in a tractor that was passing through my house, or they do it with the "to" to them. In both cases, which put us first, in the list of traitors in the country, because the story will actually place each one in its place. And then they're talking about why the bandol has changed. I think they might find some expression happier than this, because what it's dealing with is that we can actually have these debates without any reason. Everyone can defend their ideas and no one tries to impose them without a social majority, without respecting the democratic principle, overstepping the rights of parliamentarians and repealing the Constitution and the State for the Middle East, trying to impose their model of society or their political objective. Because, if not, effectively, this, this motto, also felt often in the independentist demonstrations or seen in some banners, of the « Donec perfiam, this so progressive and so little reactionary thing of the « Donec perfiam, of « to the end to the end, « to the end to achieve it, is converted, effectively, into something that can legitimately be done to a part of the Catalan population that does not share in absolute terms its objectives. And that you see, indeed, with a certain degree of how in the path of legitimate persecution of an idea you use means that you can't share with one another and leave them absolutely helpless. Therefore, we have not been able to see any of our contributions incorporated into this text, and we have been very pleased to see that we have formulated, I sincerely say, with the full intention that it may be inclusive, that it refers to the rebroadcast of this chamber of all the incendiary acts of violence that have occurred, for example, in the case of the Athens of Sarria, or the stone shots or the paintings against its political parties, on one side of the hemisphere; the threats, the coercions, the checks..., that we should be able to agree – that is what we should be able to agree on. And I remember a few words from the CUP spokesman on this assumption, which I was commenting on yesterday, and I don't think I can reveal any secret that I can't reveal..., he said: "No, if we, we, we could be willing to do that, but we don't seem to be responding to this debate. We say that in our modest opinion they correspond to this debate, it would have corresponded to the debate in which they refused to do so already in this Parliament, and we hope to see, at the length of this Ple – which there is some other opportunity – how we rectify this and we are at least able to come to terms with this issue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.130.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. It's the return of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group now, it's the return of Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.131.0	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We always condemn violence, come from where we come. Unfortunately not all members of this chamber can say the same. In fact, a few weeks ago we presented a motion for a resolution to condemn the violence and Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana, Catalonia in Comú and the CUP [[remorse of the voice]] ..., well, without Catalonia in common, and the UPC voted against it. We condemn all types of violence because we want to live in a united society without fractures. But it's that, besides, we know what this rape is because the first person skates. We know what it's like to physically attack our regiments and our affiliates. We all know what it's like to be torn apart by carps. We know what it's like to get escorts out of this Parliament. And we know what it's like to get us up to twelve times with excrement. [[The speaker shows an image.]] Certainly, I would like to send a very strong hug to my company at Llobregat Hospital. [[Greetings.]] And I could follow that up to the hundred and sixty attacks that we've rejected public charges and our constitutional parties. This without counting the cases in which the directors of the PDECAT, the Republican Left and the CUP have declared us people not grateful for our ideas, which is the same as declaring people not grateful to more than a thousand Catalans. We condemn all types of violence. Condemns, for example, attacks on Catalonia Radio. But today, what exactly is Press Freedom Day, condemn the attacks on Global Chronicle writing? Or the insults they made to the director of the e-News digital diary, the former director of the Barcelona School of Public Administration? Do you condemn the campaign to set up a journalist from El Mundo? [[The speaker shows an image with each question.]] And the president of my party? Condemn the campaign, will you, of Arran? The campaign against Catalan governors, also of Arran? Condemn the death threats to Albert Rivera and Inés Arrimadas? And to identify the private domiciles, for example, of Judge Llarena or Mr. Salvador Illa? And sign the negotiations, for example, of Albert Rivera's peers? And give the address of Mr. Llarena's wife's work place so that she can't go, literally saying the tweet, "quiet for the street? It's very easy: condemn all this, yes or no? Because we condemn all kinds of violence, I haven't seen you condemn the violence against us. [[Greetings.]] On the other hand, we also condemn the fact that creatures have come out crying and with anxiety attacks from their schoolhouses because they felt intimidated by those teachers who should be old for them. I have spent much of my life in the classrooms of the Catalan public school, so I will not accept lessons from those who have not climbed a classroom in life or from those who have made the most blessed details of the whole state here in Catalonia, against public education. But it's just a case... because obviously most teachers do their job very well, but it's just a case of these would be too much. The problem is that Catalonia at the moment seems to have more than one. That's why I want to express all my support to these creatures and their families, and also to the two hundred students who showed up to give support to these children of civilian guards, and now they have to see themselves as union leaders and supposed movements of pedagogical renewal accusing them of lying. I have a little respect for Catalan students, please – a little respect for our students. [[Greetings.]] Unfortunately, what has happened at this institute of Sant Andreu de la Barca is more of an exhibition, of the many that we have, of the social fracture in Catalonia; a fracture caused by separatist policies. I shall now set out examples. For example, the vice president of the PDECAT of this locality, of Sant Andreu de la Barca, who said, and I quote textually: "The peaceful way has limitations. If we want anything, we must be willing to kill or give life for the country. Members of the PDECAT and remaining separatists, condemn the words of the Vice President of Sant Andreu de la Barca? More exhibitions of this social fracture caused by the independenceist policies; for example, the statements of the governor, also by Sant Andreu de la Barca, who says, and quotes textually: "The problem of this – refers to the case of the Palau Institute – "this is a small Andalusian one; here there has always been a very strong Spanishist feeling, but it was not so much manifested. That's to say, shut up, they don't bother much, they don't make us very much; now, the moment they've started talking, it's already complicated, huh? So, mirin, lords of the PDECAT, we manifest all our escalph to all the Catalans who have come from Andalusia and the rest of Spain, and we give it to their governor, who said: "To the people we have three Andalusian associations and, finally, celebrate the Fira d'Abril; many have not integrated. So, look, we're very proud of the Andalusian associations, and the extremes, and the galleys, and the aragonese, and all the people who want to share their experiences and culture with us. And we also celebrate the Fira d'Abril, and the trench of Cerdanya, and the Aplec del Caragol de Lleida, and the feasts of Santa Key de Tarragona, because they are all feasts of our own. The Fira d'Abril has been celebrated in Catalonia for almost fifty years and is one of the cultural events with most visitors from all of Catalonia, whether they like it or not to the governors of the PDECAT. And, look, you're independent, the streets aren't yours or anyone's, because he also told us this governor that we say the streets are ours or not, the streets are theirs. No, look, they're not from them or anyone concrete; the streets are from everyone. And with which they are all, they have to respect each other, and there can be no deep ties or green triangles. I am not talking now, that you should talk about this the self-called ecological parties, about the contamination that carries this. I won't talk about it, but... [[Greetings.]] But, you know, we've won the election, and we don't have to put up big ties for the city? We don't pose in Barcelona, which we won, nor in Tarragona, which we won, neither in Lleida, nor in the Hospitallet, nor in Rubí. We do not devote ourselves to filling public space, because we respect that public space is of all people: of those who have voted for us and made us win the elections and of those who have not voted for us either. That's why, respect the public space, the streets aren't yours. [[Greetings and remorse.]] I'm still... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Well, if it was left...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.132.0	Please... please, deputies and deputies. Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.133.0	If there was any doubt as to who causes the social fracture, I will quote again the director of the PDECAT, who said: "If they do not like the Catalan school, they make them coll·legis apart from them. No, lords of the PDECAT, we will not make separate choices for the origin of families. [[Greetings.]] And we're not gonna let the scoundrel settle for the profession of your parents, and we're not gonna let you say that your parents are beasts. We will continue to work for a public school of quality, trilingual and neutral. [[Greetings.]] Separatist parties are bringing us today a motion for a resolution that contains a statement from the CDRs as a statement of motive, and in this statement it speaks, as Mr Pedret told us, of a united, joyful and combative people. Well, I don't know exactly which town they're referring to, huh? But people who have not been able to go out on holiday or arrive late at work or who cannot take children to the "col·le·cias to the actions of the CoR, I think happy do not find them, and very close to them, neither. [[Greetings.]] Because we've all been able to live the images of black-dressed squawks, with the face covered, pulling pneumatics on the street, then putting them on fire, or carving lives... And, look, this is not the people of Catalonia. Most of the people of Catalonia go with the face of discovery and do not bother the rest of our fellow citizens. [[Greetings.]] And it's not just us and the judges and the prosecutors that have rejected the rape of the CDRs. I will now quote the latest report by Reporters Without Borders, taking advantage of the fact that it is Press Freedom Day, and say – textual words –: « October 1 increased tensions and created an asphyxiating environment for journalists. And he adds: "The disinhibition of the authorities' speeches increased the targeting of networks against non-independence journalists. Do you condemn attacks on journalists, yes or no? We, of course, will vote against this motion for a resolution, because we do not have any credibility for those who do not want to condemn the violence with our motion for a resolution and because, moreover, we do not need the image of those who are dedicated to assigning people, domiciles, businesses, who threaten us with death, and who, moreover, want to be frightened, because they say that the cause has changed. And, please, just to finish, read a little...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.134.0	Mrs. Sierra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.135.0	... – yes, I finish already – before going out to the Faristol, because what happened with Rosa Parks is that a regional law was declared unconstitutional, and the Supreme Court, which is the equivalent of the Constitutional Court, what it did was declare the unconstitutionality of that law and the equal rights of all citizens. And Clara Campoamor, liberal that we have as a referent, what he did was fight the Congress to change the law; what you are not capable of doing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.136.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. It's Mrs. Maria Servent's return now, to position herself in relation to the reviews.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.137.0	Well, first of all, we want to celebrate that this motion for a resolution is approved for a large, large majority of the chamber. Secondly, and in relation to the Socialist Party, we regret, and very much, that it has presented some statements with the sole purpose of justifying its position, and not with the purpose of dealing with them. Because I'm still waiting, ever since I called him yesterday, to which you answer me. He's done it in this pharystoll, and now, yes, he's doing propaganda. [[Greetings.]] And those who give you democrats stop lying and distorting reality. I have not seen them condemn with the same energy the social struggles and students of France. This situation also affects, and a lot, its voters, affects us all. We expect them to devote their efforts to halt repression, to halt regression in social and democratic rights, political persecution, true violence, which you systematically deny. I'm about to feed the report of the social division and hold it accountable for independence, because it's you – you – the banners and those responsible for the report of the social fracture. It is very frivolous to provoke conflict between the popular classes to cover an electoral strategy. It is petty, very petty, instrumentalizing the situation at the expense of a repressive state that has taught you and that has long wanted us to be complicated, subordinated and humiliated. We, in change, never – ever – normalize the criminalization of the defense committees of the republic. We will never stop criminalizing the reprisals and the feixist assaults, the maltreatments suffered from public charges to artists, teachers, tweeters, journalists or students, the journeys that place us in the force before the National Audience, inherited from the Court of Public Order of the Francoism. We will never normalize endless journeys in the grip of an oppressive state that has taken our companions in an absolutely unfair way. [[applause]] Nor shall we forget the political persecution that our companions have caused to exile, the prosecutions, the charges, the arbitrary arrests that are unjustifiably extended, after...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.138.0	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.139.0	... that we – I have finished, Mr President – set the heart and soul defending our rights before the tyranny of power and brutality. Those who today reject this motion for a resolution, and hold the CDRs of criminal organizations, trivializing the concept of violence, you become accomplices, accomplices of what you yourself claim to be critical of. Because rape, true rape is this. And fire in a desperate attempt to win by force of threat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.140.0	Mrs. Sirvent, it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.141.0	Mr. President, I ended up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.142.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.143.0	I have fire in a desperate attempt to win, by the force of the threat and to put it, which you have long lost with the force of the word. But you can never have a town that has taken the humble decision not to back down and that brings solidarity and... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.144.0	Thank you, sir. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Can we vote on the joint motion for a resolution? [[Pause.]] All right. So let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 78 votes to 57, with no abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution on the guarantee of transparency and the rights of applicants for guaranteed citizenship income]] [[250-00135/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the guarantee of transparency and the rights of applicants for guaranteed citizenship income. This motion for a resolution has been tabled for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Therefore, to present the initiative, has the word in the first place Mr. Raúl Moreno. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask them, please, if they have to go out, to do it in silence. [[Pause.]] You're hoping for a moment, Mr. Moreno, please. [[Pause.]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.145.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the guaranteed income of citizens. As you know, parliamentary groups had the opportunity to sort out a motion for a resolution to bring to this House; we had two on Gaza and one on violence, but we wanted to insist on the guaranteed income of citizenship, to demonstrate our commitment to the people who suffer the most and in whom we have generated expectations that respect a guaranteed income that today has been well covered. Our motion for a resolution has several objectives. The first: we want to know how this guaranteed income of citizenship evolves. We want to know the requests approved, the denials, the justifications, how many guaranteed returns have been made in order to supplement pensions, how many have been made in order to supplement the returns of work, how many single-parent families have collected them. We want, in addition – and this is a differential fact with which we have defended a few moments ago – to know..., or to seek that it is guaranteeing the rights of those people who have received a denial notification of the guaranteed income of citizenship and, therefore, that the same Government makes available to these citizens, mediating their web plan, a form so that they can make the procedure the content administered to exercise their right to reconsider this denial. We also want more resources to assist the fourteen-thousand shippers who still have settlement pending today. And, thanks also to the contribution of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP and of Ciutadans, we also add to this motion for a resolution which pays for those guaranteed returns which are found in positive administrative silence and which strengthens the information respecting the complementarity of this income with the contributory pensions. I explained to them before: application set_months, dataless set_months, silence per answer. We asked, we asked for documentation, we went to the Synod of Greuges, we asked the employee to the President of the Parliament, we held meetings with the professionals of the SOC, with the affected and affected, with the professionals of the social services, with various directors and directors of the arrest of Catalonia. We went to the Synod of Greuges, as I said, because you're making a report on whose application this guaranteed income was from September 15 until today. We have made various motions to the assembly during this month, most of which have been approved. We've asked for the data in person too. About three weeks ago we had a meeting with the Secretary General of Treball, Mr.Ginesta, with some parliamentary groups, and at that meeting they 'nvan neg – they 'nvan neg – explicitly the dice. That's a very hard fact. And today we have to come here and ask that Parliament's plenary authorize or, somehow, urge the government to give us the data is a pretty hard fact, but we're at this point. Look, there's no excuse for 155 – before I said it – to make these data public. It was as easy as making them public at that meeting. It was so easy, for the sake of transparency, to explain what was the situation we were in. Certainly, the same secretary general, Mr.Ginesta, has made public on repeated occasions that 155 has not only not been a problem, but has facilitated the management of the same guaranteed income of citizens. This was published last week, after various interviews he did at the communication media. Therefore, settle down. The fan case of who manages the guaranteed income of citizens or those comments that have made political parties trying, therefore, to blame others who are not themselves. What's the situation? The situation is as follows: 61,000 people have demanded guaranteed citizenship income; half of these have been denied. Of the non-denials, 19,000 have been processed, the rest are waiting. I of the 19,000 tramitades have tied up 1,009 guaranteed yields of ciutadania. In summary, of the 61,000 people who applied for guaranteed income, 1.65_per_cent were granted. Or, said in another way, of the 30,000 that passed the first filter, only 3_per_cent – math things have been stuck. Now we understand the silence of the department and its refusal to make public these data, because even those who manage them consider that they are miserable data, of the performance and, in any case, of the perspective and power that was wanted to be given to this law. Even so, they have found in the joint – that they say they follow thread in turn – to justify that the homeless and the victims of domestic violence who are in a residential appeal do not have the right to collect the guaranteed income of citizenship. We didn't do it, we didn't vote for a law because people without rest don't have a right to guaranteed citizenship income. Even my entire parliamentary group has become part of the articulated – and it has been approved for all – Article 7.3, which says that anyone who is at risk of social exclusion and who does not meet some of the entry requirements, exceptionally, can recover the guaranteed income if a report is made through social services. They could have taken, say, this article. But no, they deny it. I, on this subject, want to announce to you today that, even though the wording could give cabuda to these collections, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forward has registered a proposal for a single reading law to amend an article of the Law on guaranteed citizenship income that I allow, without doubt, that people without restraint and women victims of gender-based violence who are in a residential appeal may be entitled to guaranteed citizenship income and who are not expected to expect the rule. The regulation, for sure, the same secretary general told us that the regulation of guaranteed income of trigarian citizenship 211 days in process, from the moment there is government, if there is; 211 days. It's all an eternity for the collection for which the guaranteed income is destined. And, if it's an eternal for them, it must also be an eternal for us. They can't wait 211 days of regulation because they can enter these collections. And, therefore, we give this important step so that those who are in a more complicated situation, of high social exclusion, may have access to guaranteed citizenship income. But it is that, besides, these collections, during this process, have given themselves cases, well, very paradigmatic, right? : applicants who do not have a previous appointment who have not had a previous appointment until six months have passed; applicants who do not yet have a previous appointment; applications which have been denied without apparent motivation or with a justification that prevents the fact of being able to appeal the decision; resolutions which have been denied prior to the submission by duplicate of a document which is required by the same manager of the guaranteed income of citizens, or even positive resolutions the day after a woman denounced to the communication media who had denied her the benefit, that is, by counting the hundred and fifty euros she replied for the maintenance of her daughter. Deplorable – deplorable. The republican left-wing left-wing left-wing left-wing left-wing Republican left-wing government has also made it clear to us that the management of social policies is not their fort – it is not their fort. And what's causing it is that the poor in this country are making themselves chronic, that every time there's less chance of getting out of a situation, and every time there's less chance of getting out of that situation if we don't really take the opportunity to give them a hand. We want to know the dice, among other things, to get rid of some of the doubts we have. Are the nine thousand guaranteed returns people or are they shipping? We need to know that, because it's not the same person or a consignor. Do we hear that these people are already covering for the month of April? These nine thousand guaranteed returns cover from the month of April? What do you mean, he didn't charge anyone before? They didn't charge until April? They say there are 45,000 people who have completed their thought. Look, that's impossible. Yes, of the 61,000 people who asked for guaranteed income, only 14 thousand have been processed, so can you explain to me how there are 45,000 people who have completed your pension? That they don't have a shipment? We ask them to pass out doubts and ask them to form governments. Also the same managers of guaranteed income ask that it is government form. It's not 155; it's that we're running a situation that from the end of generation in this country we don't have a pilot of an airplane that's about to crash. And we ask them to agree. If they want to rule, they make government; if they want to manage, they make government, and if they don't want to do so, they take the consequences of this government to which they have brought us during all these months. Because they had the possibilities, the tools, all the skills to be able to make a guaranteed income of truth, with the hope of the same law. You have chosen to worry about other issues. But, day by day, who continues to paint are the same people who at some point were hoping from this Parliament that we would do something for them and them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP. It's the turn of Mr. Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.147.0	We wanted to start our intervention by remembering one of the people who worked most at the Guaranteed Income Promotion Commission, which was Jaume Botey. Jaume Botey left us a few months ago and we need to remember it not only because of this contribution he made to the Commission for Guaranteed Income, but for the rest of his life to the humblest people in this country and for the rest of his life to achieve a much fairer society from a social point of view. We would like to thank the PSC and Units Group for advancing the present motion for a resolution. They say they're voting for it. But we wanted to make a couple of critical evaluations. The first of these is that it would seem, from the motion for a resolution, that the centrality of the problem of guaranteed citizenship income was a lack of information and not all the management problems that have arisen and that, in the intervention, the proposer has now perfectly explained. And we also wanted to share what a meeting was like, where all the members of the groups and subgroups of the Parliament were summoned, where the Director General, Mr. Ginesta, exposed us not to an express refusal – each flight or could interpret it as it did – to the release of information documentation, but it had been determined jointly by a ministry..., that is, by the Spanish Government and the department, to whom and how it would correspond to deliver the information and at what time and in what way it should be done. We also think that it is important that we see one of the other problems that is generating 155 of us and that we then determine whether the responsibility is really the department or the responsibility is really some ministry of the Spanish government. Yes, we want to value the motion for a resolution and the three essences that this has: for a band, information on processing; for a second place, to complete with the law, and, third place, to put the necessary resources because this is done effectively. The aim of this group, the CUP - Call Constituent, or sub-group, is to make some contributions through discussions in order to strengthen this proposal for a resolution. We will begin to explain them in a very short way. The first of the papers or contributions was in relation to a type of writing demanding the payment of guaranteed citizenship income through execution, that is to say that the reality that we have of positive managed silence, which is one of the great values, plus, of this law, is able to transform the debt as an economic effectiveness. The second contribution, the immediate subscription of all citizen guaranteed income benefits that had been approved by the silent administration, independently that the execution did not start. The third of the contributions that we have made is in relation to the generation of an external audit on the criteria and procedures used in the same process, and, derived from this external audit, that the previous resolution proposal ended up incorporating not as external but as internal to the governing committee, there may be official processes for the same Administration to determine whether it had been handled incorrectly, if it had not been approved, and therefore progressed effectively in this right recognition. The fourth contribution we wanted to make is that the Department of Work crafted a few ways that can be moved to the joints, as in five languages, to facilitate not only the professional and professional of the joints the understanding of what guaranteed citizenship income meant, but also for the very ones who can have a right to have or acquire, or the recognition of the same. The fifth of the contributions was related to the fact that it is made or is returned to the relationship of work places as well as workloads and psychosocial risks. It cannot be that we have a reality in the Catalan Administration where there are still some work centres that do not have the relationship of work places, because it does not allow us to identify exactly the needs of personnel from the point of view of human resources that we need, and it cannot be that we do not have a direct knowledge of which are the psychosocial risks that these workers and workers have to process the citizenry guarantee income. The sisena of contributions is the immediate substitutions before the assumption of temporary incapacity, which we popularly recognize as low for malaise, and sometimes also the coverage of all vacancies that exist. On this, we have to say that it would allow us to have the opportunity to cover all the staff needs that are now in the OTGs and other physical spaces that are not the OTGs but are also being used to process and recognize the guaranteed income of citizenship. We must say that we understand how coherent this motion for a resolution by the Socialist Group and the Unites pour Avançar did not incorporate these points, we understand how coherent it is, because it voted in favour of the motion for a resolution that was presented for the Catalonian Group in Comú Puem. And it's consistent, among other things, because they wanted to focus on information and documentation. And, therefore, we have already advanced that we will vote in favour, and so we will keep this vote in favour, above all for the vote that the PSC Group also held in the previous motion for a resolution on this issue. And as the last reflection, accompanied with the Members and Members who are now in the Chamber, so much better the Members and Members of this Parliament are going to discuss or speak again about a matter such as the management of a law, and less so the management of a law that means rights for those sections of the population that are in a situation of greater vulnerability. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.148.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.149.0	Good afternoon, again. We are once again debating a proposal similar to that which we were dealing with just one hour ago, and, since the parliamentary courtesy, I would like to say both to Catalonia in Commu and to the Socialist Party that they have missed an opportunity to present this proposal jointly, not only among you, because the motions for resolutions are virtually identical, but also with the rest of the parliamentary arch groups, because I believe that we all agree to make truly effective laws. We have missed a very valuable opportunity to demonstrate, as was done with the passing of the law, that the different parties of different colors are able to agree on some things, that we are able to put aside the confrontations and share the things that unite us. And reading the amendments tabled by all the groups to these two motions for resolutions, I think the majority is quite reasonable, and of course we will vote in favour of them all. The will to get this law out in the best possible way, something we did in the past legislature, which united the entire opposition, and, as Mr Santi Rodríguez said, despite the Government's efforts to boost the paper, I think it is the best example of what we could do from this Parliament if we put aside what separates us and start working for what unites us. One of the vices of politics in this country is partisan tacticalism, which seeks the benefit of the party itself rather than the benefit of the citizen, and, on the other hand, I believe that another vice is distrust, which translates into a lack of transparency on the part of governments, for fear of the processing of data. But the citizen has the capacity to analyze the data, the situations and to cast his vote accordingly. There is no need to fear transparency, because it is the lack of transparency that motivates the distrust of the citizen. And let us not forget that citizens are the shareholders of this country, those who have the capacity to change their management bodies. Not by omitting the information they will stop thinking, nor can they be expected to trust party tactics, because that is very old. And, Mrs Ribas, I would like to take this opportunity to say to you that it is less wrong for Citizens to denounce the politicization of the union leaders who have moved away from the bases, thus leaving workers' rights unprotected, because if we had to wait for you, we already know that you feel more comfortable together with those who have eroded the labour market, thus causing the flight of thousands of businesses. Good thing Citizens are leading the change that Catalonia and the rest of Spain need. Mr Moreno, we have been rejected the amendment in order to ensure that there is a general complementarity with the income of work, a complementarity that does reflect the articulation of the law, with the argument of waiting for the constitution of the government commission. But to present a proposal for a law that modifies its articulation does not have to wait, does not it? We don't like it much. But, well, I think that now more than ever it is necessary to leave behind the bad vices of old politics and focus on finding consensus that will solve the problems. And it is clear that we have a problem: a law that came forward with the consensus of all, but is stuck in its management. We have a government commission of the law that has not been formed, and it is not because of 155, but because, let's face it, there are differences of opinion about which entities have to be part of, and, as always, there are interests and a war opened up, therefore, by the chairs of that commission. We also have stress situations that translate into job losses, and that, in some cases, is giving a feeling of insecurity on the part of the workers who are processing it. We have a positive administrative silence of dubious application; we have a lack of provision of the law with regard to certain groups, such as women victims of sexist violence; the lack of knowledge of pensioners regarding pension supplements; and we also have a high percentage of denials because complementarity with income from work has not been widespread. I believe that they are sufficient grounds to sit down at a table to discuss and negotiate and to provide solutions, among all, so that we can unravel the situation beyond the criticisms that we can make, because we are in our right to do so, because we all surely have more than one, not just how it is being managed, but how it has been addressed since then by other parties. But when the time comes to be accountable to the citizen, parties that support the Government will have to explain why they are managed, but opposition parties will also have to be accountable for what we did or stopped doing. And I really tell you that there is nothing like presenting yourself to the citizen with the security and confidence that you have been consistent and sincere. I believe that my job, my debt to that more than 1,100,000 citizens' voters, is to denounce the reasons why I believe this law has begun with a bad foot. I have already said this in my previous speech: the previous Government was not for what it had to be, they were too busy doing a blow to democracy to think about how best to manage this law. But my debt to these citizens also includes helping not the coup government, but all those citizens who expect us to provide solutions to avoid inequality. It's a debt to that one of every... Catalan children living below the poverty line. Because talking about inequality and poverty is talking about losing talent. Because talent doesn't understand social classes, talent grows everywhere, and we need to ensure equal opportunities for that talent to come out and not get lost. This Parliament decided to carry out the guaranteed income of citizenship for this purpose and we all gave in to reach a consensus, and that was one of the best news of the past legislature. Because improving equal opportunities is an objective on which all Catalans can agree. But the most important thing, which is the fundamental thing: the budget allocation. After exhausting months of procedural staging to form a government, we still do not know what they intend to do about it, so the theoretical parliamentary majority. What budget allocation do you intend to devote to it? Where do you think you're going to get it from? Will they cut off the TV? From the District Councils? I don't think so. The first thing we have to do is get out of politics fiction and come back to reality, where not everything is possible just by wanting it. Where is the budget to provide the law? Because on too many occasions it has been shown that bad administrative practices on the part of Governments respond to the need to cut the budget. But, of course, when you have a client network of a banana republic, it happens that the budget evaporates like the dream of a summer night. And Citizens already demonstrated, with their amendments to last year's budgets, that the law could be sufficiently endowed. We showed that, with real political will, then, we could find a budget. And we find it, and we present amendments to remove that political commissioner, that tool of political control of the media, as is the Consell de l'Audiovisual de Catalunya, which costs us 5_million_of_euro per year to all Catalans; also reducing contributions to the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, taking out 58_million of the more than 230 that costs us the TV of the process. Because is it really a public television with six channels? What is more necessary, to be the autonomous community with more public, autonomous channels, or to provide this law budgetaryly? We also called for the abolition of the office of the former Presidents of the Generalitat, because few Catalans understand that we are paying the offices to Mr Mas and Mr Montilla. And we also call for the suppression of the Cesicat, that illegal espionage service of the Mossos d'Esquadra that targeted political parties, activists, public and private figures, journalists and entities and platforms that defended the democratic state and loyalty to the Constitution, which guarantees our rights. Well, then, cutting through all those political bars and tools at the service of secessionism, in 2017 Citizens managed to pull 67_millions out of the budgets, in addition to the 208 with which they already had the minimum income of insertion, adding a total of 275_millions_of_euro to allocate to the guaranteed income of citizenship. These amendments were rejected because the Government preferred to spend it on fiction policy rather than allocate it to solving the real problems of citizens. And, sincerely, I want you to go down to planet Earth and bring the solutions that those who need them most are waiting for. And if they do not, then we will continue to remind them that the reality behind the walls of this institution is not solved with yellow bonds or nationalist populism, but with realistic and effective policies that respond to the real needs of citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia; it is the return of Mr Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.151.0	Mr President, Members and Members, representatives of promoters and entities involved in the success of the law, Deputy Vidal Aragonese has commented that so much good that we will not find ourselves again to discuss the management of a law as important as this. I absolutely subscribe to the words you said. You have also, in some way, commented or commented on in the previous intervention, which does not, say, fit general principles to give answers to concrete problems, but what is needed is to seek answers to these concrete issues. But here I would, in some way, want to counter this position by saying that the general principles also help, sometimes, to find and position themselves better in the concrete principles; to the fame of: "Give me a why and I will give you the comms, how to get there." I would like, in my intervention, mainly to focus on this "because and not so much on the "how," and so, in some way, to point out that in this "because there is the fundamental motivation to find" the "how of this government, which must be there, and of this government which will, so to speak, work on this application of the Guaranteed Citizenship Income Law. I will not discuss it, to a deputy who knows things well on this subject, as is deputy Raúl Moreno, that things are not well. He has given many data and has given data in depth, he has also given no data in previous interventions and, therefore, he has to measure a lot of actions to redirect actions and improve this application and achieve the success of an important law such as the Citizen Guarantee Law. But let me, in any case, even though I still insist on this because... social justice is a classic theme and it's a theme that has been defined as ‘giving to each individual, according to their needs. Certainly – and I am making a small parentheses – it is also true that the classics say that each one according to its needs and each one according to its merits; that sometimes it is oblivious and that some of us have to claim or it is worth claiming, because the merits are also a way of distributing justice and not just the first part. But it is true that we all agree that ‘at each school, according to their needs. Therefore, covering needs is a question of justice. The citizens' guarantee income is a tool that seeks to cover the needs and get out of these poor situations in which we can take care of ourselves; poor situations in which even the work ensures that we do not fall into these poor situations; with which we do have a difficult social problem here, that we should respond all together. But I come back to the reasoning: the guarantee income is intended to cover needs and justice is" at each point, according to its needs, therefore, the guarantee income is a question of justice. If we are clear – if we are clear – that the objective of political action or one of the objectives of political action must be that of the promotion of justice, it forces us all to look for ways and means for which, in some way, to respond to this need for a good application of citizen guarantee income. It's not..., Mrs. Naomi of the Street, Congresswoman, it's not just a simple question of bringing money here and there, but it's a more complex question. It's a matter of... it's a much more complex matter. It is a question that I ask to administer some media, which I would divide into three: economic media, human media and legal or regulatory media, as we say. Economic middlemen are essential. And here I think we could do a bit of self-criticism all over the fold, because this law is true that it is a law of the whole Parliament of Catalonia. And so it has to be – and so it has to be. But it's also true that we can all do a bit of self-criticism, in the sense that when we approve of a law from the abst of this, we should accompany them with economic memories in which we all commit ourselves to finding resources in all the abst that it supposes, more than pure, say, declarations. Here there should be a question of economic resources, as better – as better, but let us not deceive. That would be demagogic. Let us not deceive, that it is not a question of the offices, nor television and this is a solution. Because, then, we are deceiving the citizenry, which is patenting – patenting – situations of poor and harsh economic drama. We can't do that. Therefore, economic resources are on our backs, better, and we are forced and forced to look for them. The second are human resources and means. It is true that it is a new law, it is not easy and it is a law that demands an application in an exceptional political context. Much as we forget, it's a context that 155 alters, it's a context that the whole political situation of this past time has marked and that, therefore, to make it... – even though it was already difficult to be good at first, because it's a new law with an ambitious social pretension and it can't stop being so... –, it's a law that has a very large application complexity. This calls for training, this calls for involvement on the part of all, of managers who have responsibility for organizing activities. It is true that both the resolution proposal and the previous one seek guidance in this sense. And in this sense, we have to work and we have to commit ourselves to seeking resources. Repeat the same: if we are clear on why, surely how we will all fold a little easier. And if we assume that it's a law that's everyone's and that, therefore, involves us all finding it and not demagogicizing it, don't do partying here on this law. And the third question is to find legal remedies, which here is the recast rule. It is true that sometimes laws are developed without the need for a regulation, but a regulation in this type of law is a very important and substantive and very important tool. The rule is limited by the political situation we find ourselves in, and this is a very important condition; but what I would ask is to do it the other way around, is to take advantage of the situation to make it an opportunity. And what do I mean by that? So we've detected a lot of situations that we might not have predicted and that the rule, the government's rule that must be committed to doing so, must incorporate them and pull them forward. Therefore, we have an opportunity of a situation that should not be, but that we find ourselves engaged. To take advantage, therefore, of the search for real economic resources, which gives rise to this dramatic situation in which many families are found; to seek the best, the formation of human resources in this application – and here there are clear political responsibilities, but here we must be there – and, then, to compromise ourselves by seeking a legal regulation that develops this law as a basic law that guarantees social justice. In the end, there is not enough with objectives, there is not enough with means, but it is more than willing. If you have tools and you have clear objectives, but you lack the will... and the will is something that goes beyond, sometimes, just the clear ideas, the will is fundamental. And here I am asking you – and I am asking you as a sovereignist – to remember that the sense of sovereignism... – and for me the sense of sovereignism, and I believe, I absolutely subscribe to that of the great majority, if not of all those who are at the sovereignist bench, and certainly of the whole chamber – the sense of sovereignism is to get a country in which people can live better; if not, what did you feel to do and fight for sovereignty and political struggle, political freedom, if not to get people to live better? This law is a law that must allow this objective, that of being able to live better for all Catalans and Catalans, and here we must compromise ourselves. We appreciate the two motions for resolutions, but we are not disturbed by the fact that there are two motions for resolutions on this subject. It is a theme that stands out because of its importance, it is a theme of social justice; therefore, we must achieve it. And to say that since we are sovereign, we are committed to making Catalonia a country that is more just and more forthcoming, from political freedom and civic exemplarity. And the depth and correct application of this law and its points are a good tool. We will stand in favour of the first four points, and in the fifth point we will abstain from a question... that we simply understand to be of the same application – of course – of the same law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.152.0	Thank you, Mr. Forné. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.153.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members and Members, to the people who accompany us today to the Chamber and to all the people who follow us through any means the Parliament has at its disposal. Today, as my partner Irene Fornos has already said, I should not have been here at the Faristol defending or talking about guaranteed income from citizenship. No, no, Here should have been Constellera Dolors Bassa, ceased for article 155... [[applause]] , since it was his tireless commitment and responsibility to the most socially unprotected people, which made possible the Law 14/2017 of 20 July, driven by popular legislative initiative, of guaranteed income of citizens, which, again to remind them – to remind them – was approved unanimously, for all groups of this chamber. As you already know, with other companies and companies that have already intervened in previous plenary sessions, I also new soc. In the area of local administration, guaranteed income cases and social activism have been managed and managed. With very clear convictions, convictions that believe in politics that think that the better life of its citizens is possible. The policy it has as its objective to combat all kinds of inequalities. A policy that puts everything that is in its abyss to lengthen the city as much as possible from exclusion. A policy that works to create a strong and stable texture, that allows us to be a cohesive, cohesive and strong society before any adversity. For this reason, this law, the guaranteed income of citizenship, we consider it more than necessary to make possible the words mentioned above. An essential law that can contribute to the dignity of the lives of thousands of citizens, many of whom have been and are direct victims of the economic crisis, which has affected them in a flagrant way. A crisis that forced them to stay, unfortunately, too much time out of the labour market, with all that this entails; it makes it more difficult for them to be able to restore their socio-occupational situation, which they had before the crisis. For the complexity of the same law and for all that it represents it is necessary to stop. Stop and make an incise about the important aspects that help us visualize what guaranteed citizenship income represents and put in value everything that has come to an end. We cannot forget or deny the fact that among all, encapsulated by Constellera Dolors Bassa, we have been able to create a right. By the time they destroy rights, we haven't created one, one new. Gentlemen of the PSC, it is not very honest, honest people, that you, precisely you, take advantage of the fact that there are no advisors or those responsible for defending yourself, and that there is no government in the hemisphere that can answer your questions. It's not honest to try to make fun of the generality involved, and the difficulties of a functioning government. It's a little ethic, and like PSC still more. That they may seek to redeem Article 155? Companies and companies, Members and Members, do not lose sight of the fact that this law is approved, as we have already said, by unanimity, and that this is why everyone has to be held responsible, not to make it marketable, since it must be remembered that it is a benefit for the citizen who have the most difficulties, the lowest social share, and how complicated is its situation as it is to make it a partisan and demagogic, without taking into account the evil that can be done, or the false expectations that can come to generate many people who, at the present time, at the time of the deployment of the law, do not meet the requirements in order to be able to benefit from the guaranteed return of citizenship. Do you really believe, with everything you've worked on, the resources you've put into the law, that it's a failure? So, I think we need to stop doing partisanship and move on to exercising objectivity and realism. With this we don't mean that things can't always do better, but it's true that the context isn't easy and doesn't make it easy for people, but we'll end up with better results for everyone. Now, how about we wait? We wait for a government, which can be deployed on a regular basis, we act with responsibility, and after a prudent time of its operation, we can analyze all the results, and, if we can apply better, we, from the responsibility of the government, be the first to surround them. That's why I'd like to appeal to the responsibility and sensitivity of everyone, because right now, who has the bulk of responsibility in his deployment are the workers and the public workers. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: is it possible for anyone to believe that the staff working and working, with a public function, is dedicated to making assessments of the consignors in a negative way, with the sole objective of harming the city? Why do I want to insist on this idea? Because, without government it is not possible to make the rule or commission of government, which are essential elements to deploy in its totality the Law of guaranteed income of citizenship. But still, I think we can be on the right track to say that despite the complex situation that the country sees, despite the lack of a rule, despite the little recourse and the difficulties of the same law of guaranteed citizenship income, the law is unfolding. The interlocutors with whom this was agreed are connoisseurs, since they have held meetings and periodic sessions with the most important unions in the country such as Workers' Commissions and UGT, the third sector, social work, Federation of Municipalities, Association of Municipalities..., and the employers are informed. We remember that they are the interlocutors who mark the same law, and those who agreed at the time of writing it. This morning, precisely, there was a meeting in which the most up-to-date data were exposed, which confirm that many of the denied requests correspond to people who have higher entrances than the same law establishes, and another large part have been because the people..., the person requesting or some member of the family unit work full-time, and this means that they do not collect the rights to acquire them. Finally, honourable Member, I am sure that there will be many points in the length of the parliamentary term in which we will agree, and just as we have done with some aspect of this motion for a resolution, since you also represent the working classes, right? Is it that they also represent the working classes? So, then, they need coherence. Consistency in its decisions, and in concrete terms, with regard to this issue that we are now discussing. You cannot ask for explanations of the guaranteed income of citizenship in this Parliament, when you, in Ciutadans' company, have been and are required collaborators of the PP for the application of Article 155. We will support all text except point 5, in which we will abstain, since the same law makes very clear the meaning of the positive administered silence, which derives from the payment of the benefit. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.154.0	Thank you, Mrs Driuech. Next, in order to position herself, she has the word for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Pomão, Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.155.0	Well, good afternoon, again to speak on a debate that we have already had before, from our motion for a resolution. To intervene at the end, moreover, of this second debate, on the basis of the Socialist Party's motion for a resolution, I believe that it allows me to intervene a little differently. A little different and analytics about what we've had in these two debates today. And I think we've been exposed to some things, these debates. They have shown us, if I may be joking, that it is actually serious..., they have shown us again that there is a group, the group with the most deputies and deputies in this Parliament, which, as always, is a subject, whatever it is, wanders away from what is going on, always the door to the same camp: to the monotheme. Always bring him to the same camp. It is not new, but today we have been rediscovered or demonstrated again with their interventions, with this resolution and with the previous one, of the guaranteed income of citizens. But beyond this evidence, today I think we have discovered, we have all made it clear that, except for the Republican Left, we all understand that there have been problems in managing guaranteed citizenship income during these seven months and a half. With the exception of the group which is linked to those responsible for the soto-government, who are actually managing the guaranteed income of citizens. I think you wouldn't have hurt them to make a little self-criticism about how you're all folded up and how you're going to solve it. I think it is obvious when the only answer given to this generalised evidence on the part of the rest of the groups that there is a management problem and that there is a political problem in how the guaranteed income of citizenship is borne on the part of this'sub-government...', I think they would be doing a favor if they were to admit that the problem does not have those that we are focusing on this mismanagement, and those that we are doing with some proposals for a resolution that put forward proposals for a solution. That the answer, the only answer to these criticisms here today cannot be that we are partying, but that it should be understood that there have been management problems and that there have been political leadership problems. And I'm going to the detail. Management problems that have emerged from various visions, that have left very sensitive collectivities out of access to the guaranteed income of citizens. Management problems that have caused the terms not to be fulfilled, that have caused the people who are applying for guaranteed citizenship income not to feel accompanied. Management problems that are causing all these collections, that have an expectation generated for all folds, from a right that we have generated all and all folds, very sensitive, we are generating a sense of right breach, when they then make the request and what they find is a silence per answer, a few unanswered, and no reasonable explanation or follow-up in this process of their request. But, I said, it's also a political problem. It is a difficult political leadership problem that has fallen into the error of opacity. Not giving transparency to what was going on, to which are the reasons for which certain collections cannot access guaranteed citizenship income, to which are the reasons for which there are problems of how to respond to certain collections that have demanded guaranteed citizenship income, going to the opacity, to the Members and Members that we have asked for this information for various lives, it is a difficult political error, which gives many more misinterpretations and much more criticism than it would have been if we had opted for transparency from the zero minute. But it's also a hard political mistake not having been making a generous application of guaranteed citizenship income in those months in which they got their hands free to do so. We have been there at various times, now I want to explain it more clearly: 155 is impossible at the moment to approve the regulation and formally approve the guaranteed income governance council; but beyond that, it does not affect anything else. And this is what they show and say publicly, and also in private meetings, those responsible for managing the guaranteed income of citizens from the government. The law, obviously, may have shortcomings, but without regulation, given that we have put certain articles – before the socialist deputy makes reference – that allow exceptionalities, allows an expansive reading of those collections in which there is no doubt. He went to look only for those elements that allow him to make restrictive reading. Frankly, lack of transparency and restrictive application of the law are two great political errors that have been committed by those leaders of the Republican Left who continue to manage the guaranteed income of citizens of the Government of the Generality, those members of the team of the former councillor Dolors Bassa, who are managing the guaranteed income of citizens. What we want is for this to work out. And to solve technical errors, to solve management problems, to demand good management, to demand sufficient resources, to demand transparency and also to demand, as does this resolution of the socialists, to facilitate for that citizenry that you think is not respecting its rights..., because you have tools to be able to claim them. That is what we approved today in our motion for a resolution, or now in those complementary points, with the Socialists' motion for a resolution. To solve the political problem and the political errors of how they have been managed is to govern; and this is also in their hands. They already govern and put real political leadership in that it will be their fatherhood and motherhood, that it is the management of a law that is of all; that it is of all the Parliament, that it is of all the people who promoted it with the ILP of the guaranteed income of citizenship and that now the merit, the medal that can be borne by the people of the Republican Left is how they manage it. For the time being, the medal they're winning is very and very negative. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.156.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. Next, for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.157.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a debate that we have already had this very late, with a proposal for a resolution of the Group of Catalonia in Communal We can have similar characteristics, I would say, of the two great axes, very similar: that of information and that of the better management. I would therefore like to take advantage of this second debate to make a few points. First of all, I think it should be stressed that we are not debating, in these two motions for resolutions, whether or not the guaranteed income of citizens should be implemented. This is a debate that has already been held in Parliament enough during the previous parliamentary term and which culminated with the approval of the law; so now this is not the debate and, therefore, we will not go into value, because we have already done so in its time, the opportunity or not of the implementation of a measure of these characteristics. But one thing to say: it seems that those who speak of the monotheme are just some, but in change, the representatives of Junts for Catalonia come to the Faristol to say: "It is that we want to be sovereign in order to be able to do things like these. And we have to tell them, "Listen to me, we're going to be high in everything we're competent, and that's why we can do things like this. Because it's already done, this is it. This law, it is not necessary for Catalonia to be independent in order to apply it or to approve it: it is approved and can be applied without needing to be independent, simply exercising sovereignty in all the skills that we have and that have often been obliged to exercise. Therefore, this first element. In other interventions we have heard, also from the Junts Group for Catalonia, that they will have to go looking for resources. Come on, let's go. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Unfortunately, because we are in May 2018 and this is a law passed in July 2017 and came into force in September 2017; therefore, the government that was there in 2017 should have already provided the necessary resources for the deployment of the law in 2017. And if we're now thinking that looking for resources means that at the moment someone didn't do their dues properly to be able to make the right predictions of this law's development. Other... And we are surprised that on the part of Esquerra Republicana we are told: « Escort..., propose that we wait: « Hope, hope, hope that there will be government, and all this will be resolved. Look, we'll do one thing: all those tricks that come from the city and people who feel hurt by the bad management that is being made of guaranteed income from citizenship and that I'm sure they'll trick all the Members of this Parliament..., if they want, we'll give them their phone and they'll trick you; and you convince them: "Hope, hope, hope we have governance. Esperin, Esperin, hope that Mr Puigdemont will decide who is to be the president of this government. This is the answer we have to give to all those people who were hopeful in July 2017, when they saw that this Parliament unanimously decided to make a collective effort to help them in their day-to-day lives and that they could overcome the situation of vulnerability they were living in? What do we tell them? « No, wait until there are governments. Wait, now we're going to Germany to meet with Mr Puigdemont to see if there's government or there's no government. Listen, this can't be, much less, the answer. She said, and said, "The 155 makes it impossible for there to be a rule or for the governing commission to be made. It's not 155 – it's not 155. Or, what makes it impossible that a regulation can be approved and that a government commission can be approved is that the government that there is, whatever it is, 155 or not, is in operation; after some elections, the government, whatever it is, is in operation. And it's not a 155 application question: it happens every time there are elections. And this is the situation we're in. That's why it's urgent that after... I don't know how many months we're wearing, because we've already lost count after December 21st, and there are majorities, as it looks like there's no one in this room, so there can be a government that can make these regular deployments. I'm done. The motion for a resolution refers to the request for information. There was a need for the import of the information, but obviously the information with respect to the number of shipments processed and the quantity of rejected shipments and the reason, and also determining how many shipments had to be rejected without argument because the terms and silence are closed..., therefore, the knowledge of all this statistics is what allows us to address whether the management that is being done is the best or not. And, obviously, they saw the complaints there, until now we are convinced that management is not the best. Therefore, from the statistical knowledge it is when the appropriate measures can be taken to improve management. And, of course, if there is no such information, I assure you that it is not the responsibility of the ministry, which has authorized that all the questions that are raised by the Members of this Parliament are answered in this respect. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.158.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to indicate the items that are accepted and the text that is put to the vote, has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno, for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.159.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'll just answer some of the questions, because I only have a couple of minutes to do it. Mr Vidal, I very much appreciate the amount and speed with which we have been able to deal with the points of this motion for a resolution. Just tell him that at that meeting in which he directly denied your information no longer existed; it was at the end and, therefore, there were other deputies from Ciutadans and Junts per Catalunya who could see how before my..., directly asking for these data, did not want to give. Mr. Forné, I also have to thank you all. I would also ask for an economic memory of this type of law; in fact, we asked for it in July of last year and didn't give it to us, huh? Therefore, there was no economic memory at the time we approved this law; it was difficult, wasn't it? Mrs. Najat, I... I'll make it clear to you that you are responsible for the mismanagement of the guaranteed income of the citizenry. We've all agreed here. Left Republican has handled very poorly the guaranteed income of citizenship: a million_new guaranteed returns of citizenship. If there's no government, it's because they didn't agree; there could be government. If there's no rule, it's because there's no government. If there's 155, it's because there's no government. And if not, explain it to the secretary general, who says that 155 has not been a problem for the management of guaranteed income of citizens. Don't tell me, tell those who manage – that they are also from Esquerra Republicana – the guaranteed income of citizenship. And, of course, I will speak of Mrs Bassa with all the personal respect I have for her, but with all the strength of her political action, which has also been made in the last legislature. I'd just miss it – I'd just miss it. And I end up with Mrs. De la Calle, who I... we didn't accept, Mrs. De la Calle, your proposal in labor matters, because we already made an agreement, let's face it, that this would be progress. But to criticise that we do not apply this proposal, which we have done has been to modify a law proposal that amends one of the articles. If you, the band that have won the elections, are able to modify articles, they may do something, but do not criticize us that we do what we consider opportune while you do not absolutely do anything; yes, tell us every time you have won the elections. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.160.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Once the speeches are over, we call for a vote. [[Pause. Josep Maria Forné and Febrer ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Forné, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.161.0	To request the separate vote of point 5. The other four, for us, can vote all together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.162.0	Any more separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Therefore, can we vote 1 to 4 points on this motion for a resolution in one block and make the separate vote on the fifth point? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right. So we shall vote first on these first four points of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. These four points of this motion for a resolution, from '1 to 4, are approved by 133 votes in favour, against and against. Let us now proceed to the vote on the five, five of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This five-point motion for a resolution was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 66 abstentions. There is no more opportunity to vote on this motion for a resolution. [[Proposal for a resolution on the necessary performance of the domes of trade union entities in the interests of workers and not determined political leaders]] [[250-00137/12]] So let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the necessary action of the heads of trade union entities in the interests of workers and not of determined political leaders. This proposal has been presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans; therefore, to defend it has the word of the deputy Carlos Carrizosa, for a space of two minutes. Yes, Mr. Aragonese, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.163.0	Good afternoon. President, for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.164.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.165.0	And we'll go on and on and on and on and on and on and on
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.166.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.167.0	... to try to explain it; I don't know if at this time, but how at least to explain it. The CUP - Crida Constituent has manifested in different meetings both of the Board of Spokesmen and of the Bureau of the Parliament that it understood that the proposal for the resolution of Citizens, of Ciutadans, could be contrary to international treaties. We will never be able to withdraw any motion for a resolution that might involve a discussion. We are in favour of and all that is possible to discuss a proposal like that of Citizens, that what they claim is criminalizing the unions; even so we are in favour of this. But one thing is that we are in favour of this and another is that we do not show that this motion for a resolution is clearly contrary to trade union freedom. And why do you obviously mean the 87th Convention of the International Labour Organization...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.168.0	Mr. Aragonese, I understand that this is not a matter of order, that in any case the positioning will have it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.169.0	It's a point of order. And I need to explain [[strong remorse of the eyes]] Mr President, the reason for the point of order, because it is a question of legality, because the motion for a resolution is contrary to the right of freedom of association.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.170.0	Mr Aragonese – Mr Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.171.0	And you have to allow it, Mr. President. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] If they let me finish... one thing is to violate the freedom of association and another, the political freedom of this Member. If you'll let me finish...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.172.0	Ahabi, Mr Aragonese; but obviously the warning that this is not a matter of order. And, so, you're going to end up, and then you're going to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.173.0	Let's explain why, obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.174.0	...five minutes to position your group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.175.0	It's a matter of order because it's against the law, against the right of trade union freedom. The proposal made by the Ciutadans Group is contrary to Article 3, paragraphs 1 and 2, of ILO Convention 87, which clearly states that public authorities – and it is understood that legislative chambers are a public power – cannot interfere in trade union activities. Obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.176.0	Mr. Aragonese...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.177.0	We– and let's say again– do not ask that it be withdrawn...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.178.0	Time's up, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.179.0	... – we do not ask that it be withdrawn – this motion for a resolution, but we do want to make it very clear that it is against legality for a very simple question...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.180.0	It's already...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.181.0	...because any union...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.182.0	Mr. Aragonese, it's been very clear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.183.0	...could start – and I finish, president – procedure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.184.0	No, you no longer have the word, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.185.0	...the complaint procedure before... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.186.0	Please, ask for respect for all opinions. There's the word... [[Elisenda Alamany Gutiérrez asks to speak.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Alamany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.187.0	Yes, I'm sorry. We didn't think to intervene because we did it at the Spokesman's Board. In fact, my parliamentary group has tabled a review of this motion for a resolution because we believe that it was an attempt against trade union freedom and the independence of trade unions to bring their mobilizations to an end. In that review of Ciutadans' motion for a resolution, unfortunately, we only counted on the support of the Socialist Party. At that time we would have liked to have the support of the CUP, but it did not arrive at that time. So, we understand that now the debate is alive. And forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.188.0	Just like that, the debate is alive. And, therefore, you will be able to position yourself perfectly in your turn. It has the word, now yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.189.0	Well, go ahead, ladies and gentlemen, which I find picturesque and curious the allegation of the CUP Member, because that a CUP Member becomes so legalistic and says that we are violated international legalities has had his grace, and I thank him for the intervention. [[Greetings.]] With regard to the content of our motion for a resolution, citizens respect the provisions of article 28 of the Constitution, which enshrines precisely freedom of association. And not only respects it, but we want it to be so, we believe in the system of free trade unions that ensure workers' rights, and we also believe that workers' labour rights are much better protected and of course have the best of their defenses in free, modern trade unions, in a free society, and that, of course, that is the position of Citizens, and we have always expressed that. Of course, another thing is that we think that today the unions, some of the unions, especially the majority unions in Catalonia, Workers' Commissions and UGT, because they have neglected the defense of the workers, of all their workers, think as they think, with the number of problems that we have in Catalonia and that suffer the working classes in Catalonia. And that all political parties can agree on some of the diagnoses: for example – for example – job insecurity; for example, wages of misery; for example, the suffocating fiscal pressure that some workers who earn from fourteen to thirty thousand euros, which here in Catalonia, by the way, is where the most fiscal pressure endures; maternity and paternity leave; about the welfare and the way in which employment contracts are fulfilled. In all those facets of defending workers' rights, Citizens have much to say, and they have already done many things, in fact, and we have put many proposals in the Congress of Deputies in these same budgets; for example, salaries for young people, to mitigate those wages of misery. And we do do do things. And what can be considered is that we sometimes disagree with solutions, but we can share many of the diagnoses with the unions. What happens is that, here in Catalonia, we have serious doubts that the unions are fulfilling their constitutional mission of defending workers. And we believe so because we think that the same way, just as we have constantly reproached the Government of Catalonia for the loss of time, money, economic resources that has occurred with the whole process..., to that car have unfortunately been pointed out, the unions Workers' Commissions and UGT in Catalonia have been engaged. And why do we say this? We say this because not only did the trade unions participate in those so-called « country strikes that took place in September... ; shortly after the shameful sessions here in which the rights of democracy were violated, on 6 and 7 September, because the trade unions Workers' Commissions and UGT pointed to a political strike in Catalonia. They have also pointed to demonstrations; the last of them, therefore, on 15 April, on which was supported the people who carried out a coup to democracy here in Catalonia. And they have participated in procession organs, clearly processions, such as the Taula per la Democrácia, together with ANC and Ómnium Cultural. Therefore, we have a grave and great reproach for the trade unions, and it is that they aligned themselves, they aligned themselves in Catalonia with those who gave the blow to democracy and who neglected, at the same time, to take care of the rights of all Catalans; with those who have had us with the institutions closed to lime and chant and useful only to talk about the process – since last July, we have said this in endless occasions, we have not spoken more than about the process, in this Parliament – ; with those who have divided society; with those who on 6 and 7 made a law that does not approve an international body nor a national one, nor at any place, gentlemen of the UP, which promoted that the President of the Generalitat, that gentleman who has now escaped, who is a fugitive from justice and who is in another country..., that gentleman wanted to name the judges, fingering the prosecutors. And, as you will understand, when all of this happens in a society and it splits in half – and it is clear that it is broken in half, this society – trade unions cannot compromise their acronyms by supporting only those who gave the blow to democracy. We believe that to criticize the attitude of union leaders is to defend unionism. We believe that calling for democratic regeneration of trade unions is to respect trade unions, in the same way as when we asked – and we have always done so, since our founding, in 2006 – that political parties should regenerate, that there should be primary in political parties, that the accounts of political parties should be transparent, that there should be no corruption, that they should choose their leaders and public offices as primary; in the same way that when we asked for all this – and we have made some progress since 2006, in which we are in politics – we did not criticize the democratic system, but that we criticized those political parties that were exhausted from old bipartisanism and other corrupt nationalists who have been for forty years in Spain; in the same way that we did, that, and that does not mean an attack on democracy, in the same way, that criticizing trade unions that take decisions unilaterally from the old bipartisanism and other corrupt nationalists who have been for forty years inSpain ; in the same way that wedid , not by their democraticaffiliates , that is not based on the same form of opposition to the administration of publicfunds , that we have noopinion , and that we have noopinion , that we have any form ofunion. And why... [[Greetings.]] Trade unions in Catalonia have shown a close connection with power. Mrs Bassa was placed by the UGT, practically, in the coup government of the past legislature. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, look, this is it. Where did Mr. Camil Ros come from? Well, of Republican Left. They have close connections. You independenceists, secessionists, you, separatists, you are enchanted with servile unions, you are enchanted. You touch the whistle and, as you are accustomed to the whole society having functioned by a few domes – the domes in professional colleges, the domes in universities, the domes in the unions, the domes in the unions – unanimity seemed to the whole society to think the same thing. For what we say is that affiliates and workers who have another opinion are respected, as must be respected, by the directors and universities, and by the governing teams in universities, the ideological diversity of their members and members of the university community. That's so revolutionary, gentlemen of the process, that, it's true that you don't get those unanimouss to go all hand in hand, behind a banner, and that you water it with public subsidies, which is how you've been doing forty years of nationalism. I understand... [[applause]] I understand that they don't like it – I understand that they don't like it. Look, what has been the consequence of this for the unions? Well, look, low memberships, May 1st day that, with 300,000 affiliates who claim to have Workers' Commissions and UGT here in Catalonia, was an eight-thousand-dollar demonstration, which sure as hell wasn't all of them from Workers' Commissions and UGT, and that means that not all of them were freed from trade unions. Well, and why should I tell you: UGT Telefónica and UGT Renfe, who made assemblies to demarcate themselves and ask the UGT Secretary General to please not use the acronyms on the issues of the process. Well, that's what the unions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.190.0	Mr. Carrizosa, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.191.0	Yes, I'll be right there, Mr. President. Look, in the end, what we are asking here is regeneration and that everyone's ideology be respected, that the unions also do so, and that in the same way that criticizing the leaders of the parties is not criticizing democracy, because criticizing the leaders of the unions is not going against trade union freedom, but precisely preventing the trade unions in Catalonia from also becoming another tool of the process, which is what you are looking for. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.192.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. It is now the return of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. It's Mrs. Aurora Madaula's turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.193.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Bureau, Members of Parliament, public guests, parliamentary workers, citizens who follow us through the media, very late. This today is my first intervention in this Parliament as the deputy of Junts for Catalonia and I do so with the honour and pride of representing the people of Catalonia, even though I would have liked to do it in normal conditions, where my companions who are now in prison and exile are here. [[Greetings.]] I can't start this intervention so close to the First of Maig without making a reconnoiter to the union struggle in favor of the workers who make the union organizations from years ago, already follow them that have a major representation, like the UGT, Workers Commissions; already follow them that they also have a great implantation, like the Interunion, the CNT, the CGT; the sectoral unions like the USTEC, the Union of Pagesos. But let me note my support and my solidarity, as well as that of my parliamentary group, Junts for Catalonia, with the companies of the Interunion, independent union that suffers a totally unjustified and anti-democratic judicial persecution for exercising the right to vacate. We are totally opposed to this persecution. The right of vagrancy was exercised vaguely and the waves of October 3 and November 8 were legal and reflected the discontent of the majority of Catalonia. Many thanks to all trade unionists, because your struggle is also ours. "The law ensures the subordination of the trade union organization to the party, since only the party can communicate to it the discipline, unity and spirit necessary for the national economy to serve national politics. The status of each national trade union shall be approved by the national command of the movement. By decree agreed in the Council of Ministers, the constitution of each national trade union shall be officially recognized. This is what gave in his preamble the law and the article of the Basic Law of the Trade Union Organization of another 6th of September, the fatal 6th of September, 1940, which was to be the structure and purpose of the Spanish Trade Union Organization, better known as the « vertical, Francoist union, which eliminated trade union pluralism, which in Catalonia had been robust and belligerent since the 19th century. The franchise implemented a regulated trade union fiction for a law. You see, the franchise also had laws and also had anti-Franchists who left their hair to fight against this franchise, to fight for democracy. The vertical union was controlled by the government and responded to its decisions on the alleged organization of workers. I would like to explain this to you because I would like to know if this is what it is, to return to the Francoist control of the unions, the one that the Ciutadans Group claims to submit this motion for a resolution against... – and I quote textually – « against the domes of the union entities. Look, as you know, the motions for resolutions that are presented to the Bureau of Parliament, and as has already been said, are intended to promote political and government action, and that is why they are addressed to the Government of the Generality or to the citizen. The proposal you are submitting is aimed at the tops of trade union organisations, which is an inconsistency with the proposal for a parliamentary resolution, because it involves unacceptable interference in the free activity of trade union organisations. Therefore, this motion for a resolution violates the right to freedom of association and, since this proposal explicitly states – and I quote again –: « in demonstrations..., explicitly states that these trade union organisations have an involvement« in demonstrations and public acts in favour of independence and against judicial decisions. It shows that you have a low knowledge of what democracy is, which involves freedom of expression and manifestation, more than freedom to union and not to do so. But you're a lot more used to shit than you are to ducks. Despite the fact that, as I have just said, this proposal does not have the minimum characteristics necessary to define the objectives of this kind of resolution, the Group of the European People's Party for Catalonia accepted that it was dealt with by the Bureau of Parliament, because we understand that, in this Parliament, its national sovereignty of Catalonia, its sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, can be discussed and debated at all. [[applause]] And so on, of which we consider an assault on freedom. And it is that the Parliament of Catalonia must be the place where the democratic debate of ideas and proposals cannot be vetoed. The deputy or deputy should be prosecuted in court to allow the parliamentary debate, which is what will be spent the week with our fellow Members present today in the Chamber, the illustrious Mr Lluís Guinó and Mr Joan Josep Nuet, who, together with the remaining members of the Bureau of the Eleventh Legislature, are being persecuted for the Spanish Government, before the Supreme Court. From this rostrum, I want to convey my solidarity to end the repression. [[Greetings.]] Members and deputies of Ciutadans, you present this motion for a resolution repeating the mantra that has been divided in Catalonia in social terms, which « has caused – and I quote – « a climate of confrontation, favored by the independence forces. There is no social division in Catalonia [[remorse of the voice]] At least not the one you want. There's no Ulster in Catalonia, even though I wanted you to have this Ulster. Catalonia has divided opinions and political plurality, as in all mature democracies. The diversity of opinions is the guarantee and essence of democracy and so we want them to continue to exist in Catalonia. Who wants to impose a single thought is you. We, who come from the Catalanist and democratic tradition, who goes to be the same, want a society where everyone can feel free from respect for diversity, where no one is persecuted to be monarchic and Spanishist, like you, or republican and independentist, like most of this Parliament. We want a country where you don't belong to to go to a demonstration at the expense of independenceists, which is what you claim to reprimand the unions. You say that there is social division and confrontation, and more so, to the motion for a resolution, in change, they say that the plurality of the Catalan society is present in the unions. And as long as it's present. And, therefore, union autonomy ensures pluralism, with the choice of union domes. That's how democracy works. Deia Maria Aurèlia Capmany, a woman of left and Catalan, who would always pose as a clearer symptom of the exercise of freedom, precisely this, need not lie, and you lie about what is going on in Catalonia, the unions or the schools. You don't want a free, plural and different society. They claim a homogeneous society, of one mind, of regulated forms, controlled. That's what all the parties on the new extreme European right are proposing, even though it's transversal of liberals. Unions are plural, and as long as they are plural! ; as the pluralism that floods factories, schools and communication media, and so on for many years, without Parliament intervening, in order to respect democratic normality and diversity. Unions are – and I want to point it out, because they are, because I make it clear – private entities, that they have every right to choose their representatives in a democratic way and to decide which activities they organize and which demonstrations they participate in, because the right to demonstration is one of the basic principles of democracy, which is protesting, complained about or denounced by society. You, deputies and deputies of Ciutadans, always say that they worry about the real problems of the city, but on March 8th, Ciutadans did not support the feminist demonstration or the wave of women. This week, Ciutadans did not take part in the May Day demonstration either because the UGT unions and the Workers' Commissions had embraced independence – which is not certain – in calling for a demonstration in favor of the freedom of political prisoners. I'm sorry about the bad payer. You only go to demonstrations that claim to fight independence. So they don't have a problem with going from the hands of Spanish Communists. Neither can they take part in demonstrations against the Catalan school or against independence on the side of neo-Nazi and ancient Franco parties. [[Widow's remorse.]] Each school sorts out the aliases it wants, each school has the tradition it has. [[Greetings.]] Really, do they really think that manifesting themselves by the rights of women or by the rights of workers and workers divides a society and that doing so against the Catalan school – doing so against the Catalan school – and appointing teachers for Twitter promotes coexistence and ideological diversity? [[Greetings.]] I'm afraid they know what the answer is. And finally, returning to the democratic principle for which the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia will vote against – I have already announced – its motion for a resolution: "union freedom is one of the forms of ending the state of permanent exception imposed on anti-democratics, it is a question of justice. And I'm not saying it, it's a quote from Josep Vidal, the old and charismatic unionist from Unó de Pagesos, who was also a member of this parliament, a socialist deputy, and who everyone knew by the name of Pep Jai.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.194.0	Mrs. Madaula...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.195.0	A state of exception... – I finish, President – a state of exception that is supposed to have ended with the promulgation of Law 11/1985, which ultimately allowed Franco vertical unionism to stand in the way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.196.0	It is now the return, by the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr. Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.197.0	President, deputies and deputies, do you allow me to breathe three seconds? Because I'm still a little bit out of the debate we're going to have right now, the truth, and the first intervention. Look, I could focus my intervention on the right to freedom of association and make a rest of all the standard march that you, there, ignore or, better said, indulge. I could refer to Articles 28.1, 10.2, the Article set of this Constitution which they do not stop claiming, but which they usually defend partially and which they never remember when they speak of rights, whether social, civil or phonenal. I could remind you of the second article of the Trade Union Freedom Act. We could go to the ILO, even though Mr Vidal Aragonese has already made me a spoiler, but I believe that we will reiterate all the questions. We could speak that 1919 – given 'n, 1919– the freedom of trade union was consecrated to the constitution of the International Labour Organization, 1919. We could remind you that this is reinforced with the Declaration of Philadelphia, 1944. It's been a few years, too. Mr. Vidal Aragonese also placed what is the point that absolutely ratified this trade union freedom, which is the 87 convention of the International Labour Organization, approved in 1944. Adonin'n, huh? We're not talking about facts. What is true is that the Spanish State ratified it in 1977, because there are some people who do not like to remember that the Spanish State suffered a fascist dictatorship, and that this did not facilitate the normalization of elements as key as unionism. This Conveni 87 clearly places the principle of non-interference of public authorities in the functioning of trade union organizations. That is to say, what we are doing here today, which is the parliamentary chamber, a clear element of public power..., is making an interference. I could keep reminding them of more elements, but it is that, in the background, the debate is not about that; we would be fooled. The debate isn't about that. The foundation of which you present is not trade union freedom. No, no, the union freedom goes through here. The foundation of which you present is on freedom, it is on those who want to exercise their freedom from their independence, when this freedom does not please us, we do an exercise– we do an exercise– which is to advise them. An exercise that in the last few weeks you have taken very much the taste – very much the taste – to signify. Assign the dissident. It's this exercise to decide who's not mine and to clear it. Which way I can mark and place those heretics, because in the background we find ourselves before a motion for a resolution that is worthy of the most holy inquisition. We will tell independent organisations what to think and what to say, and we will tell them in the Chamber of Parliament, arriving at a very kafkià point, arriving at a point that had never been seen, arriving at this point that, as they did, after any union organization will have the right to bring it to you. But in the background, this is the debate. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is not to debate the trade union model in our country. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is to signify. And that object has already been completed. There is nothing more – there is nothing more – and it has proved itself in his intervention. The aim is to limit, limit freedom, limit rights, and place it clearly: "If you're not where I think you're going, settle it. And, look, he's very curious– he's very curious– and I guess he's got some sense. You have gone to signify... Well, you have decided, first, to start with some organizations that are especially – especially – defenses in the legal framework. Why? To avoid what happens in non-democratic societies, which is the will of influence in trade union organizations. They went for these, but they could have gone for anyone else. And they have been, curiously, also for entities that if they represent anything in this country it is plurality and transversality. And, in the background, I think that there have been because, in the background, what makes them, what makes them more by themselves those organizations that are plural and transversal; it is those organizations that have the ability to criticize everyone, that have the ability to show the complexity of society and the country where we live. That's why they've decided to start with these, because they're those entities that don't allow them to exploit their block frame. And that's it. That's why they decided to do it, that's why they went to them. And this ability of critical positions before everyone we were able to observe the First of May. I know you didn't go there, but you do hear me. You don't have to look for excuses for bad payer for not going-hi – you don't need to look for excuses for bad payer for not going-hi! It is as simple as seeing his proposal for labour reform, his proposal for a single contract, to mean that Maig's Primer can keep them for a little while. Because, of course, you look at it, and you say: "I carry the causality in the contract. Well, that's it, I can do all the contracts, even though they're temporary, without causality. And what's more dangerous: they give, as a reason to join in objectively, the dampening of the place of work. That's what's always been defended, that's looking for and matching all the compensations for the lower side. Well, it's the one who's always defended himself from some political models. Legitimate. But, this... doesn't bother us anymore that they don't vacate Maig's first. Don't look for other elements, they won't directly listen to him. But in Maig's First, we were able to see how bad they are at criticizing everyone. Why? Because the grace of what you identify is that you cannot, can, place them in this logic of blocks that you pursue. And that's why they decided to go for them. And that's it. And they don't care more than to signify heretges. They don't care more than about her and her confrontation. They don't care more than I can find that there's no political debate. Plural and complex organizations, what do they generate? Political debate, political debate simple people. And that's what you want. That's why you decided to end him. And they know what the best answer is – do they know what the best answer is? Be respectful, accept when they don't tell us who we like. And all of us here, in any area of responsibility for an administration or in any area of political project, have been criticized for those you have identified; and we live with naturality and normality. I'd miss less – I'd miss less! But you don't accept this. You've decided that those organizations that aren't where you think we're going to be. And we'll do what we need. And the object has already been completed. And before the object has been completed – because it's the only object they've been looking for –, what's left of us here is to debate it. And that's why we didn't have to debate it. And we are sure that then, in their autonomy, the unions will be able to bring them there, because they have skipped a lot of regulations; regulations that are designed to be democratic societies, norms that are designed to defend this plural civil society that any democratic society needs. They've skipped everything, they'll do what they think. But what's important is to be able to show, today, that your ability to look for the block and the confrontation has limitations, and we'll see. We're going to be happy with this debate today. We get out happy because they'll be portrayed. They will be portrayed and will see – and will see. And you will see that they are a clear minority in this Parliament. And that's the only reason we'll be happy. And then we accept the unions, we accept any organization that decides what it wants. And, please, let's avoid more Kafkian debates in this room. We avoid more debate where we go to discuss what they decide on autonomous and free organizations in this country. And when we doubt the freedom of expression, the freedom to position organizations that are autonomous, we doubt the basis of democracy. And we can't afford that. The political debate is very good, and if it does them because they have nothing more to put the debate on where they are fan. Unions have congresses and affiliates. Do it in this environment, win 'hoen this environment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.198.0	Mr. El Homrani...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.199.0	...but let's leave the organization in this room, be unionized, be whatever it is, and do our job. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.200.0	Thank you, Mr. El Homrani. Now, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it's... it's Mrs. Eva Granados' turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.201.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs Madaula, can Parliament talk about everything? We haven't been able to talk about the espionage investigation committee today to politicians and journalists. [[Greetings.]] I can't talk about everything. You sometimes decide that there are things you can't talk about. I mean, we have a memory because this was this morning, huh? On Premsa Freedom Day, the independenceist majority did not want to talk about political espionage. And, Lords of Citizens, I was expecting a truncated intervention, coming from Mr. Carrizosa. But it's just that you've knocked me out... Carlos. [[The joker laughs.]] There are two statements that have left me... Of course, let Citizens come here to ask for democratic regeneration from the unions? Citizens? Murcia's? The one from Cifuentes? Does this Citizen have to ask for democratic regeneration? My mother... Please – please! [[Voice remorse and applause.]] And then there was another time – there was another time – also great, that Carrizosa says: "The unions choose their leaders in closed offices..., I don't know what. I must have lost Mr Valls' primary in Barcelona, because I haven't seen them either. So I don't know – I don't know. [[Greetings.]] Here..., "believes the thief that everyone is of his condition, they say. But, well, let's see. What are you bringing here today? Because everyone here today decided what they were bringing and they decided the big issue: "Albert Rivera takes off the UGT, chapter III, eh? First it was the letter with a letterhead, then the absence in the demonstrations and today they come here, so, well, with the third chapter: "Citizens quit trade unionism. There's no lilac tie, there's no red tie... no news on the front. We were expecting it. Citizens, today they bring us a resolution in which they claim that the Parliament of Catalonia makes an unheard-of interference in trade union life, violating the Constitution and conventions of the International Labour Organization. Today Citizens brings us here a resolution that neither its partner, the People's Party, has attacked class trade unionism by land, sea and air since it is ruling in Spain, has dared to do. You guys get over it. Fortunately, the resolution will not be adopted, but its only presentation already implies the will of Citizens to carry out this interference. And they want Parliament, which represents all citizens, to hinder and hinder the free internal functioning of trade unions. Look, I am aware of the payment of my union quota, and many union affiliates deeply disagree with some decisions of the union leaders, but that is not why we are going to lay off either UGT or Commissions, and that is not why we are going to come here to Parliament to censure the internal life of autonomous and democratic organizations. It is unacceptable what you are doing here in Parliament this afternoon, the Citizens' Lords. The difference between you and us is that when we disagree with the approach of a trade union leader, because we believe that it does not benefit the interests of the working class, we say this from the respect for mutual autonomy that we have between political organizations and trade union organizations. But you intend to make the greatest interference that a Parliament should make in the internal life of the unions in democracy. And, you know? , it is up to workers to decide what they do with regard to their trade unions, membership and trade union elections. Parliament is an institution of all citizens, and if we want respect – and we are constantly asking the independence bloc – we practice it with social organizations, also with trade unions. And today we come here to demand citizens also to respect pluralism in our country and in organizations. The Socialist Party, the Parliamentary Group of Socialists i Units per Avançar we put in value the day-to-day work that they make delegates and affiliates in the companies, defending their workers in collective bargaining, in social concertation. That's unionism. Seeing those, at times, most concerned about the non-wage and social protection concerns us, because we consider that it is our brothers; but it is the workers who must decide. No parliamentary majority should tell anyone what to do or think. And if we tell the independenceists all the time, today we also tell you, Lords of Citizens: we lack inclusive proposals and do not divide between good and bad again Catalan society. So far we have been able to verify how the votes of Citizens, of those who trusted Citizens, have been uselessly employed, none of their proposals has been approved by this Parliament. Today, moreover, Citizens let us see what they really are: a party that restricts freedoms and that does not hurt them garments to go against the Constitution, that make so many breast strokes to defend them if with it they manage to censor an opinion that they do not share. That's what they brought here to Parliament today. Citizens, with this resolution, are succeeding in doing what is critical of the independenceists and that we suffer more than half of the Catalans. It seems that you suffer from the repressed repressive syndrome: you say you want to defend the Constitution, but with your gesticulation and that restrictive interpretation you manage to go against it and violate it; you say you want to defend freedoms from a liberal conservative and anti-government orientation, but what you get is to practice a uniforming interventionism and of the most rampant, and you say you want to defend the Catalan institutions, and specifically this Parliament, but you subject them to the same practice as the independenceists do, by trying to resolve against organizations because they do not participate in their ideas and objectives. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units will vote against this motion for a resolution with three arguments: because they do not respect the Spanish Constitution, because they act against freedoms and because they practice restricted interventionism. And while I'm at it, I'll try to defend these three arguments. Article 7 of the Constitution states: "The creation of unions and the exercise of their activities is free from respect for the Constitution and the law. Citizens, can you tell me what the trade unions have done outside the framework of the Constitution or the law? I'm telling you, no one. If they had done so, Mr Rivera, instead of running to the chambers and leaving the UGT, could have acted within the union, or would have taken them to the courts, which, as the Organic Act on Freedom of Association says, being the trade unions bodies defined in the Spanish Constitution, reserves its sanction exclusively to the judiciary; neither the Government nor this Parliament can sanction them. But they have not; they have not, because it is not what they want to do. You want to do it is political spectacle, and this is one more episode. You want to do as the right has always done: go against class unionism. If they don't cheat on anyone. And, thirdly, they want to continue to divide Catalan society. And in the unions, too, with the different visions they have: divide, political spectacle and go against unionism. If we already know them, we already have 'clichados'. Secondly, they say they defend freedoms, but they act against them. Article 3 of ILO Convention 87 states: "Public authorities must refrain from any intervention which tends to restrict or hinder their legal practice. They freely choose their activities. Do you want them to take Parliament to the Court of Freedom of Association? Is that it? We cannot, must not and do not want to interfere in an internal trade union conflict. Please take your hands off the trade unions, you and the independenceists; let them as responsible and autonomous organizations make their decisions freely and resolve their internal differences through democratic procedures. There have been different resolutions of the ILO Freedom of Association Committee, China, Guatemala, Zimbabwe, Chad, Swaziland................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Citizens, we do not say this, says the International Labour Organisation. And they say clearly: "A conflict within the trade union movement is the responsibility of the parties concerned and their solution must be given among the parties concerned. And I'm done with the third argument. They claim to defend individual and collective freedoms, but what they propose is a totally restrictive interventionism. Because one thing is that they don't like what they do and what they say, but another thing is to attack freedoms. In this matter, we disagree, like many affiliates of UGT and Commissions, but we express criticism. This does not legitimize us, neither you nor the Parliament, to make a distinction between good and bad, between good affiliates and bad leaders. Trade unions, whether they like it or not, will be part of the solution to the conflict we have in Catalonia. His confederations have proposed an effective government for this country and a constitutional reform. Let no one use them. That no one wants to wear them on transmission straps. We hope from them that, from the dialogue, from the negotiation and the pact, that they know and practice, are not instrumentalized and that they contribute to reflect the plurality of their affiliation and also that of Catalonia. Your resolution, Lords of Citizens, is a great political error, a major political error, another chapter of the process that you practice to divide Catalan society...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.202.0	Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.203.0	... – and I finish – and a serious interference and lack of respect for class unionism, which neither wants nor needs guardianship. Socialists will never find us on this path. And we'll vote no. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.204.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. It is now the turn, on the part of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mr Xavier Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.205.0	You don't stop surprising me, Mr. Carrizosa. I mean, I think the party has come with you, directly. Because, of course, you have come to explain that a proposition that is actually an attack on trade union freedom and an attack on trade unions in this country is to help those, to make them better, to regenerate themselves. He also set an example; he said: "In the same way as we have done in politics, we are going to do now in trade unionism. Let's see, in the regeneration in the Community of Madrid..., they have done more for the regeneration in the Community of Madrid two moisturizing creams than all their political action, right now. [[Greetings.]] Oh, my God. Besides, there is one other thing that is hallucinating, that is that you, who are presented as defenders of constitutionalism and the Constitution, do not know absolutely well, of the Constitution. That is to say, you cannot say that the unions have a constitutional mission, because the same Constitutional Court – you said, Mr Carrizosa –, the Constitutional Court, recognizes that our legal order is not constitutionalistic. You are, but our legal order is not; there is no constitutional mission of the unions, there are recognized rights, in any case, constitutionally, that you are violating here today. Also what you're asking here is that you have problems with the unions, from their plurality, deciding to organize demonstrations and make them. It's no wonder, because you've always had a bit of a problem with the theme of demonstrations and mobilizations. You said that the wave that the women starred on March 8th was a wave of anti-capitalists, directly. When millions of anti-capitalists came out of the streets of the entire state, then Mr. Rivera quickly came out and proclaimed himself... a universal and cross-cutting leader of feminism. And, never better said, with two balls, he declared himself a transversal leader of feminism, Mr Rivera. [[Greetings.]] Actually, it doesn't stop here. This same week, you explained that thanks to you came the women's suffrage in 1931. This new policy is a little backwards. Because, basically, in reality..., and they say: "And there were no votes in favour of either the Socialists or the Conservatives. In fact, there was a vote in favour of the Socialists and Conservatives, and who voted against it was the party you claimed. I mean, we actually live in a surreal world for what he does to his explanations. [[And now you explain to us more than you come here to defend the rights of workers and workers in this country. Wow! (Laughter.) It is clear that when you refused to vote for the repeal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party which has generated precariousness, torture and wage cuts in this country; when you refused to vote for the law bites – not a vagina of progressives, they are not – when you refused to vote for the repeal of the law bites, which has brought three hundred trade unionists from this country to court cases; when you defend basically the rights of workers is more precarious, the health co-op; when you defend all this, as you have the shame of coming here to say that you defend the rights of workers.]] And, in addition, they talk about plurality, coexistence and cohesion. Look, I'm as catal as you, absolutely as catal as you, but Catalonia is plural, and you don't want it plural. You attack all those institutions in Catalonia that represent cohesion, plurality and cross-cutting. That's why they first went to the public school and now they're going to the unions. These are his main enemies. Because you, when you talk about plurality in Catalonia, actually what you want are blocks. You live from the fracture, you are born from the fracture, you feed and you live in it, you live like fish in water. [[Greetings.]] That's why when you go up your megaproposal for the city of Barcelona – when you go up your megaproposal for the city of Barcelona – what is the future proposal for the city of Barcelona? « Fem un bloc. Let's make one block and face the other block. Because this is the future for Barcelona's citizens, this is the defense of the rights for Barcelona. And then they say: "Mr. Valls making a block, convince everyone and say that all fights... Look, I remember when I was born I read your program, and I said you were defending secularism. I also defended it. But I went on to explain to them: "We defend secularism because nationalism is a religion. There are more things to life than nationalism! [[Rialles.]] There are more things to life than nationalism. Laicism has to see precisely with the plurality of public space. Well, the unions. You here basically are the unions. Unions in this country have been the basis for building social and political rights – not just social rights – and cohesion. The unions starred in a wave in 1919 – which, I have no doubt, you may have been against, also, as an anti-capitalist – which led to eight hours. The unions fought on the black French night to improve the living conditions of most of the people of Catalonia, and they did so with a huge sacrifice. And they fought, too, on the dark Francoist night to rebuild the democratic reason. This is what the unions did, before there was any constitution or constitutional mission invented. These are the unions that defend the construction of a country that is socially and nationally free and cohesive. And, yes, they're cross-cutting organizations. You have attacked the unions, but you may have attacked the Confavc or the FAPAC; you may have attacked the associations of veins, which also called this demonstration as much as it bothers you; you may have attacked the group of associations of couples and seas of Catalonia. They might not have stopped here. And the Pages Union? What's the matter, that the Pagesos Union doesn't... doesn't violate the constitutional mission in this country? Because the demonstration you are referring to, the one that bothers you so much, is the demonstration that called the Space for Democracy and Co-existence. Democracy and coexistence. Are they ringing? Democracy and coexistence; no blocs, no rupture, democracy and coexistence; rights, political rights and social rights. A space that proclaims, yes, proclaims, that we must recover our self-government, our freedoms and our cohesion from transversality and not from blocs. That's why they don't like them. A space that says it has to end with the judicialization of politics. What can't I say? No, I'm saying that because you say that all feelings have to be listened to and respected, and you say that in this text. And, in fact, when there was the feeling of La Manada, I saw all the tweets they did say: "It's getting hard for us... I saw the tweet of Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, who was a little bit more there, because the others were a disaster, which was: "It's getting difficult, but we do – we do. Miri, the UN – the UN – has criticized La Manada's judgment. Will they bring the UN here, too, and make a statement saying that they don't respect feelings and that they don't respect feelings? [[Greetings.]] Because as much as they say you're feminists, you're not, even though you have a universal leader in feminism, obviously. Many say that you defend the rights of workers and workers, do not defend them, attack them. And as much as they say that you are defending citizenship, look, Mr. Albert Rivera made it very clear, he has an impressive statement, he said: "I care more about Spain than people do. There's no worse patriot than the one who builds the country against his own people. [[Greetings.]] And, in fact, and to finish, at this party that you started, Mr. Carrizosa, to end, at this party that you started, Mr. Carrizosa, I would only make a suggestion to you: I stop presenting motions that do not vote anyone, demonstrating how useless the vote is for you, because they do not change kings, they only live from the fracture, they feed the fracture and they serve absolutely no more than that. In fact, it didn't work... – as long as they won the elections – neither did Inés Arrimadas come forward as a candidate here for the presidency of the Generality. Stop doing all this. And I make them a marketing proposal, which you love, the marketing. Miri, more than Ciutadans - Party of Ciutadan may have to go thinking about changing the name to Ciutadans - Party against Ciutadans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.206.0	Thank you, Mr. Domènech. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of Mr Vidal Aragonese. Five minutes. [[Widow's remorse.]] Hope's, Mr. Aragonese. Please, be quiet. Please, this debate is not over. [[Pause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.207.0	Always be disobedient to unjust laws and always defend social rights. Absolutely always. This has been our political practice and it will continue to feel. We are not very much in favour of making recommendations to any political party. But, mirin, you here today have literally said: "Free trade unions. Recommendation, little recommendation. Mirin, in the history of this country, what the free trade unions were. Free trade unions were the assassins who massacred the labor movement and the trade union movement in the second decade and third decade of the 20th century. Therefore, take care of your words, because they are making an indirect apologia of the employers' terrorism that was donated in the beginning of the 20th century. [[Greetings.]] Obviously, we will vote against the citizens' motion for a resolution, because it is an attempt against trade union freedom and because we think that the unions must be free, critical and autonomous organisations – both critical and autonomous – that there must be no intervention on the part of the Administration. Look, we've been very critical and very critical with the union directions. Where? At the work centers, at the barrel, at the study centers, we have never found any militant citizens defending other union proposals, absolutely never. [[Greetings.]] This is the reality we find at the work centers. I have to say that I should fully subscribe to the intervention of Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana and de Catalunya in Comú Puedo – and more so. Absolutely. [[Greetings.]] But the only thing I have left to analyze is the content of their four agreements. Mirin, the first of the accords. You say, they're referring to the unions not respecting judicial resolutions. Tell us which ones. And if they're not respected, vagrant in court. They say you – and suppose or suppose that they are failing the subconscious, or acting, better said, the subconscious – that the separation of powers is not given. What are you thinking when you reconnect unions and separation of powers? In the union as something or something else from the state apparatus? So no; obviously this can never and must never be, the unions, because, if not, we are talking about another type of unionism, which was what was referred to earlier by Mrs Madaula, who was vertical unionism. And if they want to talk about the separation of powers, let's talk about it, and let's talk about some courts that say who's to be president or who's not to be president of the Generality of Catalonia. [[applause]] , of courts that tell us too [[Funnel veils]] ...Excuse me, let me speak, that I am speaking; have proper parliamentary education, ask for it. [[Greetings.]] The Spanish courts have come to tell us that, obviously, Catalonia cannot have political autonomy with the application of 155; this is not separation of powers. And the governing organs of the Spanish judiciary, the General Council of the Judiciary, is trien by political designation; this is not separation of powers. Let's talk to each other when you're around. They tell us there is no union plurality. So, look, if we take over the two union organizations... all the groups that we're in this room have affiliates and affiliates in these union organizations. What's going on? Up to and including you... your maximum representation, up to four days ago, was UGT's affiliate. Now that he wanted to give himself as a UGT affiliate, you come – and forgive the expression, with all respect – with this number to make us see things that don't exist. You also tell us, in the third agreement, that the Constitution is not being respected for trade unions. They say a single sentence of the Constitutional Court where these practices are considered not to be in line with the law. Not one; not a single sentence. Yes, we can find pictures of the Constitutional Court's judgments that say that unions can have a size that goes beyond work and occupation, and that they can obviously be political intervention. And a quarter of the deals. Fourth of the chords... you say there's union discomfort. We can't find it, in this sense, because it gives support to leaders. Look, the motion for a resolution is not about the leaders, it's not about the agreements, it's not about this supposed instability, but what we do have very clear is that with the beginning of the crisis we saw what economic instability was and we never saw Citizens protest in relation to workers' holdings; we never saw Citizens protest in relation to labor counter-reforms; we never saw Citizens protest in relation to the real causes of the crisis. More. Absolutely not. Why? Because the only one you're looking for with this resolution proposal is to generate this fracture view. All that's not at his side is the enemy and, therefore, a fracture. Fracture that doesn't exist and that you want to generate. And finally: during the years of the franchise it was very difficult to raise some unions that were not born out of the state apparatus and that could have political positions, before questions that affected society. You won't get it, so, yes, you do, that this is the great tremor of the labor movement, which are your unions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.208.0	Mr. Aragonese, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.209.0	...is transformed into gestures. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.210.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia; it is the turn of Mrs Levy, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.211.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...they're a little excited. I think in the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They were a little excited, yes; from this perspective, at least, they are a little excited. I think it is important, in the debate, to differentiate substance and form. Trade unions are not untouchable; therefore, we can talk – and it is also advisable to do so in this parliamentary chamber – about a question that is of political topicality. However, what cannot have – and that is the part of the form – a resolution from this Parliament is a direct impact on the functioning of these trade unions. Many of us do not share – and it is clear – what the trade unions did at that demonstration, as many also did, of the members of those trade unions. We do not like it, we do not share it, as we have never – never – shared that landscape that has always drawn, that Catalanism of wanting to mix the social, civil, life of Catalonia, of everything; we do not share it. But finally, that's why we abstain. We believe that the form is not adequate; the bottom, we can share it. And, Mrs Madaula, one thing – I can't stand a few things you have commented on – is that the opposite of Catalan is not Spanish; it's that, I mean, some of us aren't nationalists, we're not nationalists for life. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, they're wrong – they're wrong. I love my country deeply, I'm patriotic, but I'm liberal. And to me liberalism – liberalism – what prevents me from being part of a collectivizing and homogenous element as a nationalism; in that case, the one you practice. I'm Catalan too, but I'm not Catalan or nationalist. And, by the way, I want to remind you of one thing. Because you say: « Spanishman..., the Catalan democrats and Spanish monarchists. You know that the Catalanist tradition is also monarchical, Carlist; therefore, beware of the differences it makes. I already know that you are to connect the Node a lot in the morning because it also excites you, you have shown it today, but there are some that we are not nationalists, that we are liberal patriots and we accept all kinds of plurality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.212.0	Thank you. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.213.0	To ask for a reading of a point in the motion for a resolution, as I see that several of the speakers have not or have not read it, and therefore I think it would be good for literality to be read, because here fantasy has been made with some of the interpretations that have been made. We therefore call for the reading of point 2 of this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.214.0	All right. Can the whole motion for a resolution be voted on together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All right, so, before the vote, the secretary, Mr. Pérez, will read this point... second, huh? Did you say, Mr. Carrizosa? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.215.0	President? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. "It notes that, being the trade unions social agents indispensable for the promotion and defence of the interests of workers, they must respect the political plurality of each and every one of their members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2018-05-03-0701.216.0	All right, let's get to the vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah? Shall we proceed to the vote? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 35 votes to 91, with 4 abstentions. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Good afternoon.
